Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Rot No. P-3992-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.5 MILLION
TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
September 3, 1985
ThI  demuit ha a reuiri dlurlli =d my be and by redpieut omy In the peifen.aamce of
deir oficid dude. fl estjg.W my me ihuiwwu be d iscd wi_hu  Word Dak auiwlz.a  I



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984      August 1985
Currency Unit  =  Syrian Pound (SL)        SL
Us$ 1          =  SL  3.95                 3.95
SL  1          =  US$ 0.2532               0.2532
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF AB3REVTATIONS
ACSAD    Arab Center for the Studies of Arid Zones
and Dry Lands
DE       Directorate of Extension
FaO      Food and Agriculture Organization
ICARDA Iaternational Center for Agricultural Research
in Dry Areas
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAR     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Syrian Arab Republic
Amount:               US$7.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The proposed project supports the Government's objective
of increasing agricultural productivity through strength-
ening the organizational and management structure of the
agricultural extension system and improving farm manage-
ment practices. The project would include provision of
equipment and vehicles as well as training and technical
assistance to improve the planning, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities of the extension system.
Benefits
and Risks:          MTe project would directly benefit some 380,000 farm
families or about SO percent of the country's farm
community. It would increase agricultural productivity
and strengthen the organizational structure as well as
improve the efficiency of the extension system. The
availability of applicable and financially attractive
technological packages, the Govertnment's commitment to
introduce a modern extension system and the progress
achieved to date in expanding extension services would
minimize the risk that the proposed extension improve-
ments may not be fully adopted or permanently
institutionalized.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
$ million
Local         Foreign         Total
Reorganization of the
Extension Structure                 12.4              8.9         21.3
Field Demonstration                    1.1              1.0          2.1
Mass Media                             1.1              1.2          2.3
Technical Assistance                   0.1              0.8          0.9
Training                               1.8              0.1          1.9
Total Base Cost                  16.5            12.0          28.5
Physical Contingencies                 1.0              0.7          1.7
Price Contingencies                    3.8              2.3          6.1
Total Project Cost               21.3 a/          15.0         36.3 a/
Financing Plan:
5 Million
Local         Foreign         Total
Bank                                                    7.5          7.5
IFAD                                    -              7.5           7.5
Government                            21.3              -           21.3
Total                            21.3             15.0         36.3
Estimated Disbursements:
$ Million
IBRD Fiscal Year:                198b     1987     1988      1989     1990
Annual                           0.25     0.45     2.20      2.70     1.90
Cumulative                       0.25     0.70     2.90      5.60     7.50
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5495-SYR, dated August 23, 1985.
Map: No. 18771.
a/ Includes about $2.5 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTlON AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS O0 A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRANI ARAB REPUBLlC FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Syrian Arab Republic for the equivalent of US$7.5 million to help
finance a National Agricultural Extension Project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at the standard variable
rate. The project would be co-financed on a joint basis with the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The IFAD loan of
SDR 7.55 million ($7.5 million equivalent) is expected to have a term of
15 years including 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Syria-Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 3303-SYR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1982. An economic mission
visited Syria in October 1984 and its findings are reflected in this section.
Economic Characteristics and Constraints
3.       Syria is a medium-sized economy with a relatively well balanced
sectoral structure and a population of 9.9 million which is growing rapidly at
3.4 percent per annum. GDP per capita is estimated at $1,680 (at the official
exchange rate) in 1983 and the social indicators compare favorably with those
of other middle-income countries. Employment is relatively evenly spread
among agriculture, industry and services, while unemployment has been main-
tained at a low rate of about 3.5 percent of the labor force. The balanced
structure of the economy reflects a diversified resource base, with
5.b million hectares of cultivable land of which 0.6 million hectares are
irrigated, a stable oil production of about 8.5 million tons per annum, some
gas and phosphate reserves, and relatively developed manufacturing, construc-
tion and trade sectors. In the past, the country has experienced a trade
surplus in agriculture and oil, but with the rapid increase in domestic
demand, the oil surplus has all but disappeared and there is now a deficit
in the food balance. Large transfers from the oil-exporting countries of the
Gulf (in the form of grants and workers' remittances) have enabled Syria to
finance a large current trade deficit and to maintain civilian external debt
at a modest level.
4.       Social indicators show considerable improvement over the past two
decades and the country has made substantial progress in reducing imbalances
in economic and social conditions both between the rural and urban areas and
between regions. However, the rural population still has only limited access
to social services. The rapid population growth has exerted considerable
pressure and a high cost on the economy for the provision of housing, health
care and social services.



5.      Other structural characteristics of the Syrian economy derive from its
centrally-planned socialist system. The Syrian Government directly owns and
manages the mining, large manufacturing, energy and banking sectors. It also
controls prices, credit, international trade, and all major investments.
Public investment represents about two thirds of total investment (and exceeds
three quarters of investment excluding dwellings). The dynamic private sector
functions in a controlled environment in agriculture, small and mediuur-scale
industry, building and housing, and domestic trade. The social orientation of
the Government is reflected in its near full employment policy (at relatively
low wage levels), price-supported basic consumer goods and services, free or
subsidized education and health services, and attention to rural and regional
development. The Government's economic and social objectives and the proposed
policy measures to achieve them are set out in five-year plans of which the
fifth, covering the 1981-85 period, is under implementation. Social and
equity objectives have been given as prominent a place in the successive plans
as economic objectives. The plans also set out quantitative production and
manpower targets for each sector besides the macroeconomic targets and an
indicative investment program.
6.      The current Fifth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) aims at achieving an annual
rate of growth of 7.7 percent in real terms. Planned total investment amounts
to about $26 billion (compared to $13.8 billion in the previous Plan), 80
percent of which is by the public sector. Actual expenditures under the Plan
have been about 70 percent of the target. Compared to the Fourth Plan, the
focus of the Fifth Plan has shifted from investment in heavy industries to
completion of ongoing projects, better utilization of existing capacity and
the development of human resources. The sectoral strategies aim at increasing
the share of commodity-producing sectors in GDP. A large share of the invest-
ment program has been allocated to agriculture and energy. The Plan has also
raised the share of investment in the social sectors in order to increase the
provision of social services. Export growth of manufactured goods, especially
those of resource-based industries, is a major objective of the Plan, and has
been reflected in the growth of exports of refined petroleum products and
textiles.
7.      Agriculture accounts for around one-fifth of GDP.  The sector engages
about one-third of the labor force and has strong linkages with most in-
dustrial activities, trade and transportation. Cotton is the second most
important export earner following petroleum. Half of agricultural production
is rainfed and production is thus influenced by fluctuations in rainfall.
Water is a scarce resource and irrigated land with relatively high produc-
tivity comprises only a small portion of the cultivated area.
8.      Syria's industrial development started with the processing of agri-
cultural products and received an impetus from increases in petroleum produc-
tion in the 1960s and petroleum price rises in the early 1970s. Manufacturing
(including petroleum refining) now contributes al.wt 18 percent of G(P and
employs 13 percent of the labor force. Syria's industrial strategy has
focussed largely on import substitution in consumer goods and a substantial
expansion of resource-based industries, such as cotton textiles, cement and
fertilizers. More recently, emphasis has been placed on expanding manufac-
tured exports to compensate for the decline in oil exports. During the 1970s,
despite the large investments channelled to manufacturing, growth averaged



- 3 -
only 8 percent per annum. Two problems were the long delays in completing
projects and frequent start-up difficulties. Growth in manufacturing from
1980-1983 has averaged 15 percent, as new plants have come on stream. The
Government is aware that in the absence of a revised industrial policy, it
will not be able to increase manufactured exports, and is undertaking a study
to identify the main bottlenecks to growth and propose policy changes.
9.      In recent years, relatively extensive public investment outlays have
taken place concurrently with large expenditures on national security related
to the unsettled political conditions in the Middle East. The growth of
national security expenditures has absorbed virtually the entire increase in
the current budget. In addition, subsidies paid out directly from the budget,
mainly for basic foodstuffs and some petroleum products, though declining,
have been a major drain on public sector resources. Foreign grants finance a
significant share of budgetary and balance of payments deficits. On average,
one half of the overall budget deficit in 1980-83 was financed by grants from
neighboring oil-exporting countries (mainly Saudi Arabia, but also Kuwait,
UAE, Qatar, Libya and Iran). However, with the decline in revenue in the
oil-exporting countries, it cannot be expected that the past high level of
assistance from them will be maintained.
10.     The export base of the Syrian economy is weak and depends heavily on
the petroleum sector, cotton and textiles. Petroleum exports, despite a
decline in volume since 1976, accounted for about 60 percent of total merchan-
dise exports during the period 1978-1983. However, the import bill for light
crude oil (needed for blending with domestic heavy crude for refinery input)
and for refined petroleum products has represented a growing share of oil
export revenues. By the end of 1984, Syria's exports and imports of oil, in
value terms, had become roughly balanced although it still was a net exporter
of oil and oil products in terms of volume. However, a new significant oil
discovery was made by Shell-Pecten in late 1984. Its exploitation, plus
stable output in the old oil fields, would allow total oil production to
increase 30 to 50 percent above the present level by the early 1990's. The
country has considerable natural gas reserves which, if developed, could
replace part of the oil now used in domestic industry and electricity genera-
tion. If appropriate investments in gas and oil exploitation are made under
the Sixth Plan (1986-1990), prospects are good for increased exports of oil.
Recent Economic Developments
11.     Following very rapid growth which averaged almost 10 percent annually
in the period 1970 to 1982, GDP growth slowed down to 3.2 percent in 1982 and
3.1 percent in 1983, or less than the rate of growth of population. The
slowdown in 1982 and 1983 was mainly due to a decline in value added in
agriculture of 2.5 percent in 1982 and virtual absence of growth in 1983,
and to the stagnation of the petroleum and mining sectors. The major growth
sectors in 1982 and 1983 were manufacturing (which grew at an average of
13.1 percent per annum), electricity (25 percent), construction (10 percent)
and government services (8 percent).
12.     In addition to the slowdown in output in 1982 and 1983, total avail-
able resources have been constrained by a substantial drop in net imports of
goods and services, resulting from the decline in the level of external grants



-4-
to the public sector which fell from $1.8 billion (or 10.8 percent of GDP) in
1981 to $1.3 billion (or b.5 percent of GDP) in 1983. They are estimated to
have remained at that level in 1984. The drop in grants has contributed to
the persistence of a large overall budgetary deficit despite Government
measures to curtail it. The budgetary gap ($1.7 billion per annum in 1982 and
1983) was financed largely by borrowing from the Central Bank, leading to a
rapid increase in money supply and increased inflationary pressures. The
retail price index, despite strict control of many elements, rose by over
14 percent in 1982 and 6 percent in 1983. It rose further by 10 percent in
the 12 months ending in August 1984.
13.     During the past three years, the Government has pursued policies aimed
at checking the deterioration in the financial situation resulting from the
decline in grants and petroleum exports. The measures have included;
(i) increasing prices of subsidized petroleum products; (ii) increasing
revenue collection efforts and restraining the growth of current expenditures,
particularly of administrative expenditures; (iii) limiting capital expendi-
tures mainly to ongoing projects; (iv) introducing a three-tier exchange
rate system which led to a partial devaluation of the Syrian Pound; and
(v) imposing import deposits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.     Syria has made impressive progress in the past decade in raising its
gross domestic product, expanding its economic and social infrastructure and
providing basic services and employment opportunities to the bulk of the
population. In these achievements, Syria benefited from a diversified and
moderately rich resource base, a dynamic labor force, increases in oil prices
and considerable assistance from Arab oil-exporting countries toward financing
its defense expenditures. It also profited from the opportunities for
employment, trade and construction in the oil countries.
15.     Syria approaches the second half of the 1980's with a marginal net
oil surplus. In addition, it is possible that highly concessional external
financial assistance, as well as opportunities for employment in and export to
the oil countries, will decline. The Government has taken a number of meas-
ures to reduce the short-term financial imbalances caused by these events
including restriccing of imports, directing investments to high priority
projects in the energy and agriculture sectors, and trying to increase the
efficiency of public enterprises. Further measures aimed at reducing
subsidies and promoting exports are under consideration. However, to regain
balance on a long-term basis, there is a need to prepare and implement a
program for the gradual reduction of subsidies, to review the appropriateness
of the exchange rate and deposit interest rates and to introduce greater
flexibility in the price adjustment system.
16.     The medium-term growth potential of the Syrian economy is favorable
provided the Government is able to reduce the short-run financial imbalances,
restrain domestic demand for energy and increase production in the agriculture
and energy sectors. In the agricultural sector, the prospects for output
growth are substantial, particularly if the irrigated area is expanded and
more attention is given to the effective use of water resources and the
provision of extension services. Moreover, greater reliance should be put on



-5-
price signals as a means to encourage farmers to base decisions on product
prices and input costs, rather than on government directives which are
inherently difficult to administer. The growth potential in the energy sector
is considerable. The Government would need to quickly implement its policy
for developing gas resources which would free domestically-consumed oil for
exports. In the manufacturing sector, substantial expansion of output for
export can take place, particularly in cement and textiles. However,
concerted efforts are needed to ensure efficient management and operation of
the public enterprises to realize the full benefits of the large public
investments made in the sector over the past few years.
17.     The Bank's mediumrterm projections indicate that with the implementa-
tion of the macroeconomic and sectoral policies described in paras. 15 and 16
above, it would be possible for the Syrian economy to continue to grow at
4.5 percent per annum during 1983-88 and at 5.1 percent beyond 1988, while
correcting the financial imbalances in the medium term. The key to achieving
this rate of growth is the expansion of agricultural and oil production and
the improvement in the productivity of the manufacturing sector. Based on the
latest estimates of the recent finds of oil and gas, the oil and gas sector
are projected to grow at 6 percent per annum in 1983-88 and at 4.8 percent per
annum thereafter. Government services (current expenditures) are assumed to
grow at 2 percent per annum, as compared to 4 percent in the past.
18.     In the projections of external accounts, it is assumed that exports
are supported by the necessary production policies in oil and gas, as well as
by the appropriate price policies. Exports are projected to grow at about
3.8 percent per annum in volume (about 8 percent in value terms) between
1984-88. It would also be necessary to restrain the growth of food and
intermediate imports if the trade deficit is to be reduced and the growth of
external debt contained within acceptable limits. This is more so given that
the workers' remittances can, at best, be expected to remain stable in real
terms and that grants are likely to decline. The restraint on import growth
would require both raising the price of importables (through exchange rate
adjustment) as well as appropriate policies to raise the domestic output of
such goods. With these assumptions, the deficit of goods and non-factor
services are projected to be reduced from $2.6 billion in 1983 to $2.2 billion
in 1988 and then rise to $2.5 billion in 1992. Transfers and workers'
remittances are expected to reduce the current account deficit below
$1 billion in 1988.
External Debt
19.     Total civilian external debt as a percent of GDP remains low compared
to other middle-income countries. Total debt outstanding, including undis-
bursed, at the end of 1983 amounted to $3.9 billion, of which 59 percent or
$2.3 billion was outstanding and disbursed, equivalent to less than 12 percent
of GUP. Of the estimated total debt outstanding, 75.7 percent was owed to
bilateral sources, 18.8 percent to multilateral creditors, 4.9 percent to
suppliers and 0.6 percent to financial institutions. East European countries
(39 percent), OECD (19 percent), the Arab countries and their bilateral
agencies (16 percent) and Iran (4 percent) were the main sources of bilateral
loans. Total debt (including undisbursed) owed to IBRD as of March 31, 1985
amounted to $508 million, or 12 percent of Syria's total debt. The average



terms of external loans contracted in 1979-81 were quite soft, but hardened
somewhat in 1982 and 1983, reflecting the rise in international interest
rates. average interest rates remained at slightly above 6 percent with
maturity at about 20 years and grace periods generally of two to four
years. Civilian debt service remained stable during 1978-83 at a level of
$300 million. To finance the current account deficit and rebuild its
reserves, Syria would need to borrow at higher rates than in the past. Bank
projections indicate that the debt service ratio (as a percentage of exports
of goods and non-factor services and workers' remittances) would rise from
12.5 percent in 1983 to 15.5 percent in 1988 and 22 percent in 1992 but would
remain manageable.
2U.     Syria has followed a cautious external debt policy and the loans
contracted have been on concessional terms. The prospects for expanding
petroleum exports are good if domestic demand is restrained and the Government
develops the country's known oil and gas reserves as planned. Furthermore,
current measures have to be strengthened to reduce the short-term financial
imbalances caused by the stagnation of exports and the decline of external
grants. Given its low debt service ratio and prudent debt management, Syria
is eligible for continued borrowing from the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
21.     Through March 31, 1985, the Bank and IDA have lent $532.4 millionVa
to Syria, through 17 projects. There have not been any investments in Syria
by the International Finance Corporation. As of March 31, 1985, overall
disbursements amounted to about b3 percent of appraisal estimates, which
compares favorably with other countries in the region. Annex II provides a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
22.     Bank lending to Syria began in 1963 with a highway project, and was
followed by an active lending and economic and sector work program in the
1970s. uver the past five years, largely because of the resources Syria has
received on concessional terms from Arab and socialist countries, Syria sought
less assistance from the Bank and our activities declined. Bank Group assis-
tance has been concentrated on projects aimed at assisting in the development
of physical and social infrastructure. The growth of public services to meet
the demands of the expanding economy has been supported by three operations in
the power subsector, one in telecommunications, and three in highways. Three
loans have focussed on the development of the water supply systems in Damascus
and Aleppo, the country's two largest cities. Bank participation in these
sectors has supported the adoption of appropriate financial policies and has
helped to strengthen the planning and execution capabilities of the imple-
menting agencies.  The,Bank has also provided financial assistance in the
agriculture and education sectors. Lending in agriculture focussed initially
on expanding irrigated land, although the Bank has also provided loans for
livestock development and a regional development scheme in Southern Syria.
Projects in the education sector have helped to meet the demand for skilled
workers and technicians.
1/ Net of cancellations.



23.      Overall implementation performance in the water and telecommunica-
tions sectors has been satisfactory. Bank participation has contributed to
the sound development of the water and telecommunications companies and to the
introduction of appropriate cost recovery policies in these sectors. Projects
in the power sector have been successfully completed, although there were
delays in raising electricity tariffs. Most projects in the agricultural
sector have been carried out satisfactorily. In general, project execution
has been affected by the centralized decision-making structure of the Govern-
ment and the inexperience of implementing agencies. A Bank procurement
seminar was held for Government agencies involved in project implementation in
1984. As a result, significant steps have been taken towards standardizing
procurement documents and this should help to eliminate project implementation
delays due to unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures. Since 1980,
because of the Government's policy of awarding contracts for civil works
construction in Government projects to state-owned construction companies
without competitive bidding, the number of project components financed by
the Bank was reduced. Recently, however, the Government has agreed to follow
international competitive bidding procedures for the proposed Aleppo and
Damascus Sewerage Projects.
24.     The Government recently requested increased financial assistance from
the Bank, as well as a more extensive dialogue on sectoral issues and options
in economic management. The Government has also shown interest in reviewing
with the Bank such matters as resource allocation and improving the efficiency
of pubic sector enterprises. The report of the economic mission which visited
Syria in October 1984 will form the basis for a review of the Bank's
strategy. Sector work currently being undertaken includes an energy assess-
ment review and a report on the water supply and sewerage sector. The
Government has indicated that it wishes to take into account the findings of
these reports in the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan
(1986-1990). With the same objectives in mind, the Government has also asked
the Bank to provide advice on a manpower planning report and a study currently
under way which is intended to serve as a basis for defining the Government's
industrial strategy. In addition, a study is to be undertaken of selected
issues in the agricultural sActor. Future lending and sector work would be
concentrated mainly on those sectors that have been accorded priority in the
Sixth Plan and and on which the Bank has already had some impact, such as
agriculture, water supply, sewerage and energy.
25.      In addition to this loan to Syria, an Aleppo Sewerage Project is
being prepared for presentation to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
Other loans under preparation are for petroleum engineering, Damascus sewerage
and a second livestock project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.      Agriculture accounts for nearly 19 percent of MDP and employs about
one-third of the labor force. In addition, intersectoral linkages are strong;
about one-third of the gross output and one-half of employment in the
manufacturing sector are in food, beverages and textiles. The agricultural
sector is expected to continue to play a significant role in meeting domestic
food needs, supplying industrial raw materials and providing employment.
Syria has a land area of about 18.5 million hectares of which approximately



one-third is cultivable. Around 0.6 million hectares of cultivated land are
irrigated and the remainder is cultivated under rainfed conditions, with about
1.8 million hectares left fallow. Forests, pastures and steppe cover about
8.8 million hectares and non-arable land covers 3.5 million hectares. The
most important crops grown under rainfed conditions are barley, wheat, fruits
and legumes. Irrigated crops include wheat, cotton, vegetables, fruits,
oilseeds and sugarbeets. Extensive sheep grazing is carried out on pasture
lands.
27.     Although sector performance is heavily dependent on climatic condi-
tions, agricultural production increased at an average annual rate of
7 percent in real terms between 1970 and 1983. Production has not, however,
kept pace with demand and this has resulted in mounting food imports and
widening deficits in the agricultural balance of trade. Tmports of cereals
and sugar have increased from $89 million in 1979 to $279 million in 1983.
Cotton remains the second largest export earner after petroleum and represents
about 9 percent of total exports.
28.      There is considerable potential for increasing agricultural produc-
tion by expanding areas under irrigation, raising productivity of cultivated
lands and improving livestock production. Given Syria's climatic conditions,
the expansion of irrigated areas is essential to achieve sustained growth in
agriculture. This expansion should also be accompanied by improved farm
management practices so that capital investments in irrigation yield adequate
returns. The productivity of lands under cultivation could also be raised
through adoption of such practices, the introduction of new varieties and
increased mechanization. Output of the livestock subsector could be increased
by better animal husbandry.
29.      The shortage of surface and ground water constitutes a major bottle-
neck to increased agricultural production. Most rainfed areas are charac-
terized by low and uneven distribution of rainfall which causes low yields due
to exhaustion of soil moisture during the normal flowering and grain-formation
periods. More efficient water management practices would improve sectoral
performance. Traditional farming methods also need to be improved. Farmers
do not practice adequate and timely seedbed preparation techniques, which
results in poor quality stands. In addition, fertilizers and herbicides are
not widely utilized and weed control is inadequate, so that weeds absorb much
of the scarce available water. Traditionally, an excess amnunt of land has
been left fallow, resulting in an underutilization of cultivable land. Weak
institutional support, particularly from extension services, has contributed
to the limited progress made towards improving agricultural practices. The
proposed project would include the reorganization and strengthening of
extension services.
Agricultural Extension
30.      Agricultural extension services are the responsibility of the
Directorate of Extension (DE) located in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MAAR). In 1984, there were about 1,220 staff employed in
extension services, of which over 90 percent were extension agents at the
village level. Although other governmental agencies have been providing



- 9 -
limited and specialized extension services to farmers, it is expected that
they would withdraw from field-level extension activities as the Government
strengthens the national agricultural extension system.
31.      The expansion of extension services has been given priority in the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1981-1985). A network of around 600 service
units is being es ablished throughout the country to bring agricultural
services, including extension, to farm families. Construction of about
430 units was completed by the end of 1984, with the remaining 170 scheduled
for completion in 1985. In addition, with assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO),
the Government has carried out a training program in extension methodology and
communication skills for approximately 360 extension workers.
32.     Although the construction program has progressed on schedule, the
effectiveness of extension services is still constrained by an inadequate
organizational structure, a shortage of trained staff at all levels and
insufficient vehicles, equipment and training materials. Extension staff are
heavily concentrated at the village level and there is an absence of regular
and reliable supervision and technical support from the regional and national
extension offices. Moreover, staff lack adequate planning, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities. The shortage of vehicles has limited staff mobility
and there is a scarcity of equipment and materials necessary for field
demonstrations. Although most extension workers are university graduates,
they generally lack adequate training and do not have systematic access to
research findings. The proposed project would address these shortcomings.
It should be noted, however, that in spite of these constraints, field visits
were expandeed by close to 50 percent in 1984.
Agricultural Research
33.      Agricultural research is mainly undertaken by the Directorates of
Agricultural Research and Soils in the MAAR and by two international
organizations, the Arab Center for the Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Lands
(ACSAD) and the International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
(ICARDA) which are headquartered in Syria. The Directorate of Agricultural
Research carries out adaptive research in all aspects of agricultural develop-
ment including livestock. Its main research program emphasizes variety
improvement, disease control and cultural practices. The Directorate of Soils
is in charge of all soil laboratories in the country and conducts trials on
soil fertility, soil management and soil reclamation. It also carries out
experiments related to crop rotation, irrigation crop requirements and ways to
minimize the effect of frost on fruit trees. ACSAD and ICARDA cooperate
closely with the nationai research directorates, particularly in the areas of
verification and training programs.
34.     Agricultural research efforts have contributed to the formulation of
the Government's annual agricultural plans through the development of finan-
cially and economical.y attractive packages of improved farming practices,
particularly for irrigated and high rainfall areas. These packages include:
high yielding varieties of wheat, seed legumes and cotton; more efficient use
of fertilizer; disease and pest control in major crops; improved seedbed
preparation, timing and methods of seeding; and more efficient rotation



- 10 -
practices. Dissemination of the new technological packages has been limited,
however, mainly due to the absence of an efficient extension service.
Although a sufficient number of technological packages are available for the
proposed project, the effectiveness of the extension service in the long run
will depend on the continued availability of improved technology. The
Government is placing more emphasis on the areas of mechanization, water
management, weed control and improved cultural practices for rainfed crops
under low rainfall conditions. To further improve the efficiency of the
research system, the Government recently approved a plan to merge the two
national research organizations into one semi-autonomous organization. This
agency would be responsible for coordinating agricultural research activities
on a nationwide basis.
35.      Contacts between research and extension staff take place at all
levels, but on an ad hoc basis. Research findings are currently transmitted
to the extension service through publications, annual reports and training
efforts, but they are not readily translated into recommendations suitable for
the farmers' use. In order to develop an effective two-way flow of informa-
tion, research and extension contacts need to be formalized and regularized.
In particular, linkage activities need to be expanded to include participation
by extension staff in research verification trials and by research staff in
field demonstrations. The organizational reforms supported under the project
would strengthen the linkages between research and extension activities.
Government Strategy in Agriculture
3b.      The Government's development objectives in agriculture are to attain
self-sufficiency in basic foods, reduce the burden of food imports on the
balance of payments and promote equitable income distribution. In the Fourth
Five-Year Development Plan (1976-1980), 7 percent of the investment budget
was allocated to agriculture, with priority given ro large-scale irrigation
projects. Because investments were concentrated on projects with long
gestation periods, .tieir impact on growth was small, and the 8 percent growth
of agricultural output in the Fourth Plan period was mostly the result of the
introduction of improved technologies and favorable weather conditions. Under
the ongoing Fifth Plan (1981-1985), 19 percent of the budget has been allo-
cated to agriculture, with emphasis given to the completion of ongoing irriga-
tion projects and to investments and productivity improvements in rainfed
cultivation. In addition, the Plan has placed greater importance on farm
mechanization and on agricultural research and extension.
37.      Government policy in the agricultural sector has been guided by Law
14 of 1975 under which annual agricultural production plans are prepared by
the MAAR within the framework of the Five-Year Development Plan. These annual
plans specify land use and cropping patterns to meet specified productivn
targets. The MAAR is responsible for licensing farmers to carry out yearly
plans and is empoweree to apply penalties for non-compliance and offer incen-
tives for encouraging conformity to plans. Because of insufficient data and
manpower to prepare the detailed production plans, the MAAR has encountered
difficulty in monitoring individual farmer activities, and deviations from
licensed cropping patterns are not uncommon. To encourage production of high-
value crops, there is a need to introduce greater flexibility in the planning
syste3 and to increase the role of prices in determining producers' decisions



- 11 -
relating to cropping patterns. In addition to regulating production, the
Government controls the prices of most agricultural commodities.  Agricultural
prices are based on average production costs and are used as an instrument to
provide adequate farmer income and to encourage farmers to expand the output
of strategic crops. Domestic prices for major internationally traded crops
are now higher than those in the international markets. Given the Govern-
ment's long-standing commitment to maintaining low prices on basic foodstuffs,
higher producer prices have resulted in food subsidies for some products such
as bread and sugar. However, in light of increasing fiscal pressures, the
Government has begun to review these policies and has recently prepared a
draft study focussing on agricultutral prices, subsidies and interest rates.
This study would provide valuable input into the agricultural sector survey
to be initiated by the Bank later this year, which would review the impact of
selected policy instruments (such as resource allocation, pricing and market-
ing arrangements) on agricultural production.
Bank's Role in Agriculture and Experience with Past Lending
38.      Bank lending in agriculture supports the Government's objectives
of increasing production and improving the standard of living of the rural
population. Bank participation in the agricultural sector began in 1974
with a credit of $10.0 million and a loan of $63.0 million to the Government
for the Balikh Irrigation Project (Credit 4b9-SYR and Loan 975-SYR). The
credit was closed in 1982 and the loan in 1984, after substantial delays in
project implementation due primarily to technical difficulties caused by the
presence of gypsum in the soil and substantial cost overruns. The project
has increased irrigated lands and improved agricultural technology, despite
a reduction in the total area covered under the project. The Bank provided
a $17.5 million loan to the Government for a Livestock Project (Loans
1311/1312T-SYR) signed in 1976 and closed in 1983. The Project Completion
Report dated June 24, 1985 noted that the project was successful in expanding
the credit availability for purchases of supplemental feeds and pharmaceut-
icals and strengthening veterinary field services. Furthermore, the project
had a positive impact on increasing the income level of livestock farmers. A
$21.0 million loan to the Government for a Cottonseed Oil Processing Project
(Loan 1631-SYR) was approved in 1978. The loan was terminated in 1981 at the
request of the Government because it was unable to comply with requirements
concerning the recruitment of design consultants. The Bank also made a
$30.0 million loan in 1979 for a Lower Euphrates Project (Loan 1682-SYR) aimed
at improving and intensifying production on existing irrigated land. After
initial delays due to inexperience with procurement procedures, project imple-
mentation is proceeding satisfactorily. Through a loan to the Government of
$22.0 million for the Southern Regional Agricultural Project (Loan 2124-SYR),
the Bank is helping to rehabilitate some 30,000 hectares of rainfed land and
improve agricultural technology. There were also initial delays in this case
caused by unfamiliarity with Bank procurement policies and procedures, but
project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. The experience
gained from the Bank's involvement in the agricultural sector has been taken
into account in the design of the proposed project.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.      The project was identified by the MAAR in 1981 and prepared with
assistance from the FAO during 1982-1984. The project was appraised in
November 1984. Joint negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from July 23
to July 26, 1985. The Syrian delegation was headed by Mr. Hamid Merei, Deputy
Minister of State for Planning Affairs of the State Planning-Commission. A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report: Syria - National Agricultural
Extension Project" (No. 5495-SYR, dated August 23, 1985) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A summary of the proposed project is
provided at the beginning of this report and Annex III contains supplementary
project data.
Project Rationale
40.      The proposed project supports the Government's objective of increas-
ing agricultural productivity through strengthening the organizational and
management structure of the extension system and improving farm management
practices. The project also aims at intensifying field demonstration activi-
ties, developing audio-visual and mass media programs and improving program
planning, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the extension system.
Strengthening agricultural extension along these lines is essential for
realizing the full potential of the country's agricultural resources and for
deriving full benefit from past investments in the sector, particularly in
irrigation.
41.      The project would serve about 380,000 farm families (or 80 percent of
the total farm population) with an average farm size of about five hectares.
It would cover irrigated and higher rainfall areas with the greatest agricul-
tural potential for which tested and proven technical packages are readily
available. Given the current potential for yield increases and the economic
importance in terms of import substitution and export potential, the project
would focus primarily on wheat, cotton, vegetables and olives and, to a lesser
extent, on seed legumes, other fruit tree crops and livestock practices.
Detailed Features
42.      The project would support two complementary approaches to agricul-
tural extension and information transfer. The first approach would be based
on personal contact between extension agents and farmers and on field demon-
strations. An agricultural agent would be assigned responsibility for all
agricultural extension services over a given area, usually encompassing
several villages with similar agroecological characteristics and farming
systems. The agent would undertake an intensive schedule of programmed farm
visits, and would be closely supervised and regularly trained. Strong opera-
tional links would be established between the extension staff, the two
Directorates under the MAAR responsible for agricultural research and the
two international research organizations located in Syria. This would ensure
that extension staff are adequately supplied with appropriate technology for
improving crop and livestock production.



- 13 -
43.      This essentially labor-intensive extension method would be supple-
mented by a second approach of information transfer based on the use of mass
communication and audio-visual aids. Under the proposed project, the Informa-
tion Section within the Directorate of Extension would be strengthened through
the provision of audio-visual equipment and technical assistance. To ensure
adequate dissemination of existing informaticn, the audio-visual materials to
be used by extension staff would be developed in close coordination with the
research institutes. The use of audio-visual aids and mass media throughout
the project area would complement direct contact between extension agents and
farmers.
44.      An important goal of the project would be to set up an appropriate
extension organization and management structure. The National Directorate of
Extension would be reorganized and a new Training Division would be created.
Assurances have been obtained that the Training Division would be established
and staffed by June 30, 1986. To improve the administrative structure of the
DE, a Deputy Director would also be appointed by June 30, 1986 with primary
responsibility for maintaining close links with the research organizations
(Loan Agreement Schedule 5, Section II). The 14 extension departments at the
Governorate level would be expanded to include a sufficient number of subject
matter specialists and administrative staff. Through the project, a total of
39 support centers, staffed with extension supervisors and subject matter
specialists, would be established in existing facilities at the district level
to provide support to the extension agents. Four hundred and fifty extension
units (of which 360 have been constructed with the remainder scheduled for
completion by the end of 1985) would operate in the project area. These would
be staffed at the rate of one agent to about 250 farm families in irrigated
areas and one agent to 500 farm families in rainfed areas, depending on the
complexity of the farming system, the size and the ease of communication in
the area to be served. By 1989 a total of about 1,100 agents would be
required in the project area, of which about 830 have already been appointed.
A large number of qualified staff to be appointed to the extension service
already work in the MAAR. The required subject matter specialists and
extension supervisors would be transferred to their new positions by June 30,
1986. The extension system would be supported under the project through the
provision of vehicles, equipment and materials.
45.      To support the revised extension program and organizational and
management structure, the proposed project includes a comprehensive training
program and technical assistance. Training would be organized by the Training
Division of the Directorate of Extension. Training courses for upgrading
extension staff would include in-service training as well as special courses
in such areas as extension methodology and communication skills, project
orientation and project-related technology, extension supervision, management
and planning, and mass media production. In cooperation with the Directorate
of Agricultural Training, the Chief of the Training Division in the DE and the
Deputy Chiefs of the Extension Department in each of the Governorates would
organize and plan all training activities. A detailed training program,
including the proposed curricula and training schedules, would be furnished to
the Bank for its review by April 30, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Training in technical subjects would be provided by specialized institutions,
including the ACSAD and ICARDA.



- 14 -
46.      The project would provide for 64 staff-months of technical assis-
tance to the Directorate of Extension in training, planning, monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, from July 1985 through December 1986, about
3b staff-months of technical assistance for extension training and planning
would be provided through a program supported by the United Nations
Development Programme.
47.      A monitoring and evaluation system would be established under the
project within the Directorate of Extension. The Directorate of Extension
would carry out a mid-term analysis of the project by June 30, 1988, and would
furnish a copy of such analysis to the Bank for review by December 31, 1988.
Measures to strengthen the management structure of the extension system,
including training programs and technical assistance, would be carried out in
accordance with an agreed implementation schedule (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b) and Schedule 5).
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.      The total project cost is $36.3 million, including taxes and duties
amounting to $2.5 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
$15.0 million, or about 44 percent of total project costs (net of taxes and
duties). A physical contingency allowance of about 6 percent ($1.7 million)
has been added to the cost of all project items. Price contingencies
amounting to $6.1 million, or about 20 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, assume inflation rates of 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for
1986 and 8 percent for the remainder of the implementation period. Technical
assistance costs include salaries, housing, relocation and international
travel costs of consultants, as well as the cost of local services, such as
local travel, subsistence, recruitment and overhead.
49.      The foreign exchange costs of the project would be financed on a
joint basis by the Bank and IFAD. The Bank loan of $7.5 million, and a loan
from IFAD of SDR 7.55 million ($7.5 million equivalent) to be administered by
the Bank, would each finance 50 percent of the foreign exchange component or
22 percent of total project costs (net of taxes and duties). It is expected
that the IFAD loan would be apprcved by its Board of Directors in September
1985. The Government would finance the local costs, totalling $21.3 million.
Effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
50.      Following completion of the proposed project, the net incremental
costs that the Government would continue to bear are estimated at $7.5 million
per year at 1984 prices. Expenditures by the MAAR for agricultural extension
are about 0.2 percent of the agricultural GDP. The project would make maximum
use of existing staff with the MAAR. However, additional costs in terms of
transport expenditures, materials and training would increase annual Govern-
ment recurrent expenditures for agricultural extension by about 80 percent, or
less than 3 percent of the MAAR's budget. This would raise expenditures for
agricultural extension to about 0.36 percent of agricultural GDP, which is
well below the average level of expenditures incurred by middle-income
developing countries during 1970-1980.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
51.      The Directorate of Extension of the MAAKR would be the executing
agency for the proposed project. The Director of Extension and his staff
would be responsible for preparation and implementation of project work
programs, staff recruitment, hiring of international consultants, procure-
ment, coordination of training programs and other project related activities.
Status of Project Preparation
52.      Bidding documents for vehicles, equipment and materials to be
procured under international competitive bidding and limited international
bidding procedures were reviewed and approved by the Bank in Juna 1985. The
terms of reference for consultants to be recruited have been reviewed by the
Bank. About 75 percent of the extension agents have already been appointed,
of whom half have received training in extension methodology. No difficulty
is anticipated in finding suitable staff for the remaining positions as a
large number of staff suitable for transfer to these positions already work in
the MAAR. The technical information transfer based on personal contacts
between extension agents and farmers has already started.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.      Procurement for Bank financed items would be carried out on the basis
of international competitive bidding except:
(i) contracts for goods estimated to cost $30,000 or more and up to
$100,000 equivalent each, and in the aggregate not more than
$3.6 million equivalent, may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines; and
(ii)   items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $0.7 million, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants would be recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 16 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                  ICB        LIB        IS      Other      Cost
Equipment, Vehicles and         12.7        3.6       0.7         -       17.0
Materials                     (5.0)      (1.3)     (0.3)       (-)      (6.6)
Technical Assistance and          -         1.9        -         1.6      3.5
Training                       (-)       (0-9)      (0) (-)             (0.9)
Incremental Operating Costs       -         -          -        15.8     15.8
(-)       (-)       (-)        (-)       (-)
Total                       12.7        5.5       0.7       17.4     36.3
(5.0)     (2.2)     (0.3)       (-)      (7.5)
-1 Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts in i million equivalent
to be financed by the Bank. Total costs include contingencies.
54.      Expenditures financed under the project would be funded by the Bank
and IFAD on a ratio of 50:50. The Bank loan would be disbursed against:
50 percent of foreign expenditures or 37.5 percent of local expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and materials and 50 percent for consultancy services and
training. The project is expected to be completed by October 1989. Because
the proposed project is in an advanced stage of preparation, bidding documents
have been reviewed and approved by the Bank and the implementing agency has
previous experience with Bank operations, the expected disbursement period of
five years is considerably shorter than the country average of approximately
eight years. In order to ensure that Syria would have ready access to foreign
exchange, a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Syria
to which the World Bank would make an initial revolving deposit of
$0.25 million. The Special Accnunt would be replenished against withdrawal
applications to be submitted by the Borrower at agreed intervals (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 6). Disbursement of funds would be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications for contracts in excess of $10,000
equivalent. All other expenditures would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure.
Accounting and Audit
55.      Adequate records and accounts of expenditures under the project would
be maintained. An annual audit would be carried out by auditors acceptable to
the Bank and a copy of the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within
nine months of the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
56.      The proposed project would directly benefit some 380,000 farm
families or 80 percent of the farm population. Agricultural production is
expected to increase significantly through the adoption of improved farm
management practices. The organizational and management structure of the
extension system would be strengthened and improved on a nationwide basis.
The project would also complement investments in irrigation networks which are
under way. Since it is difficult to separate the benefits resulting from the
extension service from those derived from other on-farm investments, this type
of project does not lend itself to traditional economic analysis or estimates
of an economic rate of return. However, there is evidence that improvement in
the efficient utilization of available resources to be brought about through
the proposed project would generate high returns. Calculations indicate that
an annual increase of 0.1 percent in total agricultural production over a four
year period would cover the capital investment costs of the proposed project.
57.      The main risk of the proposed project is that extension improvements
to be introduced may not be fully adopted or permanently institutionalized.
The Government's commitment to introduce a modern extension system, the
progress achieved to date in terms of increased extension services and the
availability of financially attractive technological packages should minimize
this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of special interest are listed in
Annex III of this report. Effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement would be a
special condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 3, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                           ANNEX I
T-A;E I L 6   3Page 1  of  6
3111*8 4II*3U R.      - CUU IzADicaU  DATA SUT
SYIA  AS  a.                        wiauw eu. omxeuzan  ASEA) p
a   (souls m..jour  Uc
4    1b7  UrD&jINd         N1. ASCA   ItD uUrT      UT. IIICA & CU
TOTAL                            I3S.2        135.2      185.2
AJICULTURAL                       149.4       134.       141.1 I
G      CAPITA 033                      ..         ..       1760.0            1134.9                   1875.9
Man mosurris a caria
(tILocRANs or OIL EQUIVALINT)     219.0      313.0       782.0             *23.9                    "3.6
POHIAIO  -1 ITAL UIATUICS
POPULATION.xID-YhAR CTNOsS)    4561.0        0258.0     900.0
UUR  POPULATON (2 Oer TOTAL)       36.8       434         44.4              49.0                     67.7
POPUIATION IIMCTIONS
POPLATtON Ul Mn  2000 CILL)                             17.1
STATIONAZ POPULATUIO   HILLL)                           41.0
POPULATIOlN 111WNI                                       2.0
POPULATION DENmsITY
PER sq. ND.                      24.6       33.3        51.9              37.3                     48.0
Pa  S4. a. ARI. LAND             30.5       46.5        65.9             470.1                     91.1
POPULATION AG SJ rCTUrU  (2)
0-14 US                         44.3        4. 1       47.3              43.5                     38.5
15-64 TS                         51.6       47.7        4.1              53.0                     37.1
65 AJNDAOI                        3.7        4.0         2.9               3.3                      A.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATI (I)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.2        3.3               2.0                      2.4
U013*                             4.5         4.8        4.3               4.4                      3.6
CRIDO  EITRE PAYS (PEN 1OUs)       47.0        46.5       45.9              40.0                     30.9
CRUO  sCXTR RATE (PU  T00S)        17.7        13.5        7.0              11.5                      3.0
GROSS RPODUCYIONt RAT               3.6        3.7         3.5               2.S                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNNG
ACCRPTY0S. ANNUAL (TwHaS)         ..         ..
USERtS CZ OF HUDl 1V )            ..         ..         23. i             21.4                     45.3
INDEK OF FooD POD. PM CAPA
(1969-71-100)                     128.0       87.0       153.0              95.1                    109.6
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALtIS (C OP RSQUtIRuS')         ".0         93.0      126.0             118.2                    113.2
MrOT1'S (MANS P  DAT)   61.0                63.0        91.0              77.8                     69.4
or itICAt MAmA. AxD PULO        16.0        19.0       23.0 /d           17.6                     34.2
CilaD {as 1-4) 0ATH  RATE          23.2       14.6         4.0              12.3                      4.3
LIF  EXPECT. a  STaI (TEARS)       49.7       57.3        67.3              37.8                     64.3
11AMr GOIT. RATE (M  THUds)       132.0       96.0        56.0              96.3                     39.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATvE (CPOP)
TOTAL                             1.9h    71.0          71.0 Ig           67.2                     65.3
U1RBAN                           76.7 71    98.0        9o.0 7            93.4                     76.5
RURAL                            22.6 7E     30.0       54.0              45.3                    4U.2
ACCESS TO EXCNETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPLATION)
ZO4                               ..          ..        43.0 g            45.9                     56.3
URDU.                                        ..         74.00             63.0                     73.4
RURAL                             ....823.07i                             28.6                     25.3
POPULATOII PE PITSICL,i          4630.0     3860.0      2240.0            4331.0                   1909.7
POP. PE  NIURSINIC PSUo         10350.0 If  4470.0      1390.0            1845.0                    806.2
POP. PMR OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           930.0      1010.0      940.0 IC          621.3                    362.0
URBJ                            520.0 _f1   870.0      770.07            545.0                    422.0
URL                               ..          ..         ..             2511.3                   2716.7
AUIISS3oNS Pm HOSPITAL BED          ..        26.1        31.9 1            25.7                     27.5
HOUSING
AVERACE SZE or HOUSEIoLD
TOTAL                             5.9         5.9
U33AM                             6.0        6.0
IUEAL                             5.9        5.9
AVtAcz NO. or PRsoEs/REoO
TOTAL                             2.3        ..          ..
URIDN                             2.1        ..
RURAL                             2.5
PtRCENTAGl OF WCLLINGS Mr  ELECr.
TOTAL                            38.0       41.7
uRAN                             67.7       64.7
RURAL                            10.5        10.2



- 19 -                                         ANNEX I
TAALK                                         Page 2 of 6
SYRRN Ann REP.         - $OCTAL INKDCAORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARA RCP.                      RRCEM GROUPS (Ic COGNTD AVERAG3S) /a
HOIT                     (HOST RCNT ESTMTE) 
RIUCT            NDLE INCDM              MIDDLE #CNE
6STENT""b   H. AMICA & KID MST          LAT. ANERICA A CAR
ADJUSD ENROLIET RATIOS
PRDIARTi  TOTAL                   65.0       78.0       101.0               *9.6                    106.7
KUI                    89.0        95.0       111.0             103.7                     108.5
7111                   39.0        59.0       90.0               75.2                     104.6
SECONDAIY: TOTAL                  16.0       38.0        51.0               42.9                     44.2
HULE                   23.0        54.0       62.0               50.9                     42.7
71K61                   7.0        21.0       40.0               34.6                     44.9
VOCATIONAL ( OF SECONRY)             6.3        3.4         6.3               10.0                     13.3
PUPSL-TEACSRL RATXO
PRIMUAS                           46.0       37.0        27.0               29.7                     29.9
SKCONDARY                         21.0       22.0        17.0               16.8                     16.7
PASSEUE  CARS/YOUSAD POP             3.6        4.7         1.0 S             17.8                     46.0
RADIO RECKIVERSITROUSAND POP        57.0      218.4       199.0              175.9                    328.3
TV RBCKIVgRS/TNOUSAIUD POP           0.2       18.5        66.3               51.2                    112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEALM
INTSRZST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND FOPUIAXON             ..          ..          7.0               37.2                     81.1
CINDIA ANNUAL ATIINDANCE/CAPTTA      2.0        *.0 /i      1.6               2.4                       2.4
LABOR PURGE
TOTAL LAOXR VORCE (3TOUS)        1277.0     1374.0      2399.0
FDALE (PERcENT)                    9.4       10.9        12.4               11.0                     23.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             54.0       51.0        33.0 /a            42.4                     31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.0       21.0        31.0              27.9                      24.3
PARTXCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             28.0        25.1       25.0               26.2                     33.5
MALE                              49.4        63.7       42.7               46.2                     51.3
rEMALZ                             5.4        5.6         6.2               5.8                      15.9
ECOMIC DEPEENCY RATIO                1.7        2.1         2.0                1.8                      1.3
DllCMK DISSUiiUY!
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCME
RECEIVED ST
HIGCEST 5S Or OUSEOLDS            25.0
HiIGHST ZO0 0F HOUSrHOLDS         49.0        ..          ..
LOWEST 2=2 OF HOUSEHOLDS           6.0
LOWEST 401 OF ROUSEHOLDS          16.0
-Z    TARGET Grs
ESTDTD ABSOLUTE POVErY INCOME
LEEL (US$ ER CAPITA)
URAM                               ..         ..          ..               226.3                    288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..               134.0                    185.3
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URN0                              ..          ..        278.0 /d          431.5                     519.8
RAL                                ..         ..        278.0 7            326.0                    359.7
ESTIMATZD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCME  VEL CZ)
URBAN                              ..
RtRAL                              ..         ..          ..                Z9.0
rOT AVAILUBLE
NOT APPLCAM
NOT E S
Tbo prooP a ges feor each iwi'tcator am popUtio'weighted arithmetic   an. Coverage of countries
amos the indleatorS depends ou availability of data and ia not uwLforo.
/b   JuL... othervise notod. "Data Lor 1960" refer to any year between 1959 nd 1961; "Data for 1970" becween
1969 and 1971; and data for "oot Recent Eetlaat" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1978; /d 1977; 7. 1980; /f 1962; &  1976; h Pereentaga of housing uits with piped water; I 1966.
NE. 1985



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                               Page 3 of 6
DFI%ITONS Of SOCAL I%DIC ATORIw
Now Although ihe data are dEan fin inrse  pnnalls judpd the mot auiknrtaiad reliable re m I*b.ld ilk' be mroed thbi tke! Mi no' he inirrntmonalh
empanrmb bacar of thel bLc of sIandardued deAinstion and conpts usd b) diffeni cominns in collmietin the dei The dami air bonehelcib uewful lo
unkb rwdrn of mgntWude oida st imnds and tharacturse unan enmaor dilerenrAvs beten countres
The otwe group are  Ini se amre couni group df tir subjeci cnatrl and 1t i  countrl) rour a ih somnrskl higher aserlgr inrome im  ihr counifr
roupof ek subjec countir Itnarl I. "High incoer Oil Etporirrs group her "MiMddle Icoew North Africa and Middle Eas is ch'en bemarol smronge-
|uhorcuhural aMnitiesi In the referene group dat the serages are powplaion weighted anthm tic  neran for each indicator and shown onmi then roajorib
of theountriesmin*agrtur hatdali or iai iniari Smnt rhre overah   ofaounirire among lth  ndicalors derend on theoailabiel!of dit and tnolt unfonn
caution mat beeied wwinreatin aergesol onr indicasio toanoLtber Thnaveragane oni uful incomparingthe salwueofone indiLar ata aim e anwn
t1 centr) and reference group
AREA ithousand sq km i                                              Crad  Birt/h Rate (Pr vr set adj-Number ofi sc births it the 'ear
Totel-Total surface area compnsang land area and inland waters,    per thousarnd or mid-ycar population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960.1970 and 1933 data                                            Crue Deth Rate (per thousandj-Number of deaths in she mear
Agrlicukwi-Estimate of asricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand or mid-year population. 1960. 1910. and 193 adala
permanently for crops. pasture. market and kitchen gardens or to    Greos Repreductient Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
he rfallow. 1960. 1970 and 19S2 data                                will bear in her normal reproductive period If she experience
present age-specific fertilit rates, usually fiSt-ear average ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as  borld      FA;lr Pluarning-Accepters. Anna. (rhaaiandsJ-Annual num-
lank Atras 11981-33 basis). 1983 data                               ber of acceptors of binh-conlrol devices under auspiceCs of nalional
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial pnmary energy (coal and lignite.         Findy  Pian/iar-  sers (percetr  ofmarst/d semej-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal lec-     tag of married women of child-bearing age w%ho are prdcticing or
tncitj In  kilograms of oil equnalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and   whosc husbands are practicing any form of conlraccplton Wonien
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are gencrally women aged I 5-Q. ashnuphl for
some countnes contracepise usage is measured for other apr
POPULATION AND VITAL STAIISTICS                                    groups
Total Pepakrin. Miad-)ar (thousnj j-As of July 1. 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NLTRITION
and 1983 data-
rndrleroFeeodProdctcion Per CaPista .969-71- /10,-inde% of pcr
Urban Populationt (perent of totalj-Ratto of urban so total        capita annual production of all food commoditics Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commoditire
ability of data among countnes. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data        include pnmary commoditie  (e g sugarcane instead of sugars
Populetinor Projeienis                                              which are edible and contain nutnents ic p coffee and te. arc
Poplearwon i rear 2000-The projection of population for 2000       excludedi. they comprise cereals. root crops. pules, oil sced.
made for each economy separately Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits, nuts. sugarcane and supr beet%. hlie,teoc   and
total population by age and se%. fertalt  rates. mortdlty rates, and  livestock products Aggregatc production ofeach cour-. a '  cd
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer pnce weight..            Wm1-5  l7ti. an,'
werc projected at fivc-year intcrals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
assumptions until the population became stationary                 Per Caoit Suoly ofCalories (perent ofr-eqaiear.s-Comput -
Stationary popularaon-Is one in -hich age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equisalent of net food supplies asailable in cnzntr%
tality rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies cornpnse domestic prn.duc-
fertilit rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tson, imports less exports. and changn in stock  Net supphle.
(net reproducuon rate- Ij In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities u.ed in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution  Requirement wcre
constant, and the growth rate is zero The stationary population    estimated b) FAO based on physiological needs fror normal aIC1  ilt'
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. bod. veightts.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertiht  age and sea distribution of populaticon. and allowing I fi percent for
rate to replacement level                                          waste at household level; 961. 1970 and 1982 data
Poptdatwn Moernrww-Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Cpita Suoppy of Preirn (grom per dip )-Protein content of
conunue beyond the tinc that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net supply of food is defined
achieved, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reacbed  as above Requiremcnts for all countnes established by USDA
unit The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as     provide for minmum allowances of 60 grams o total protei per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  da) and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the vear t. pven the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are loser than those of
ment level from vear ' onward. 1985 data                           75 grms of total protein and 23 grams of ammal proton as an
Ppation Density                                                    average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third world Food
Per sqk na-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
taresl of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                    per Capita Protein Supply From An/in  and Pklse-Proiein uppl%
Per sq kmi  agrirulnaral land-Computed as above for agricultural   or food denved from animals and pulses in gram' per da.. 19e; -65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1952 data.                              1970 and 1977 data
Pplarion Age Structue (joererUt-Children (0-14 yearsl. work-      Child tars 1-45  Death Rare (per rhousandj-Number of`de.a:h! of
ing age t15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sazre age
of mid-year population. 1960. 1970, and 19Q3 datd                  group in a given vear For most developing countries data derned
from life tables. I060. 1970 and 1983 data
Poslrto Growth Rati,(ercentrJ-rosa-Annual growth ratics of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83        HEALTH
Pepmlauien Growth Raet (porcenn-urhan-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy or Birth fyearnJ-Number of ycanr a neubxorr
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-53 data         infant would Ine if pre'ailing patterns of mortalin% fir j '  ore



- 21  -                                           ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at sh time of tf ita binh we  to suy the sme throushout its life,  Pfn rea      to e - Opma. ad nc d rpTotal stuIdents en.
ID. 197D sad 193 deu                                            rolled in primary and scondar) kvels divided by numbers of
ALfw Mweulry Rate (pr rhm-ad-Number or infants who die          machen in the corresponding levels
befor mching one yea of ag per thouand lva births in a gven
y>ar 190. 1970 and 1933 data.                                   CONS 1MPTIO0
Aasen to Soft Wlit  (pem if            rwr  a                   Porsiie  Can (Pr rhumidpepsiluabap- ssenger cars comn
e      ;aI-Numnber of people (tol. aurba  and rural) with reasnbl  prime motor cars moting lss than eight persons. ncludn umbul-
acesto sfe water supply (includs trated surface waters or     ance  harmn  and military vehicles
unitrated but uncontamninted wagtr such as that from protected  Remo Reaesri (par thmaamspopaiuailon-Al types or reeivers
boreholes. springs and  artay wls) a pcenages o their mpec-     for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tse populations In an urban ama a pubic fountun or stunpost     excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yars when
located not more than 200 meter from a house ma) be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect, data for rceent years ma~
as beng within reasonable acc   o that houx  In rural areas     not be comparable since most countnes abolished liensing
reaonable a;css would imply tha the housewwie or memben or the
bousehold do not have to spend a disproportionate part or the day  tvral pbiper thousandpoplaion,-TV feesvms lor broindc t
in rctching the funily's water needs.                           to general pubic per thousand poipulattion. excludes unlicecnwd TV
in fetching the falyzs water neexds0 Sreceivers in countries and in yars when registration orTv sets was
Auas. la. Excrawa DEepes (pnweu Of Populaonen-remi, urban       in effect.
ad raral-Number of people (total. urbn, and rural) wrved by
excrete disposal as percentages of their repective populations.  N'Prtp   Circa,lai'  (Pe a f usnd populatIonji-Shows the aver.
Excrtu disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  w  circulation of daily general intemst newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human ecrmea and waste-water by water-    periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sim;lar installations  It is considered to be -daily' if it appear at least four times a week
ftp.rien per Physicia-lPopulation divided by number of prac-    Cinem  Anual Atendoanc par CafIt per Year-Based on the
tiing ph)sicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Ptp.l.rion per Nursing Persan-Population divided by number or   drive-in cinemas and mobile unl:s
practicing male and fmale graduate nurses,  ssistant nurses.         R FOCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries                        LABO    OR
Poultion per Hoirspital Bi-rotra. Imm  and raral-Populataon     Total Labor Force (thousmndj-Economicallh active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cludang armed forces and unemployed but excluding housemiieB.
hospital beds available in public and private, genera Iand specialized  students. etc. covering population of all ages Defininons in
hospitals and rehabihtation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countnes are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 ddta
permancrtly staffcd b) at least one physician Establishments pros-  Femal (pmeoent-Femalc labor force as percentage of total labor
iding pnnctpalls custodial care are not included Rural ospitals.  force.
however. includ health and mcdical centers not pennanenLly staffed  Agscul/tr e rprican-Labor force in fanning. forestry. hunting
by a plysician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. mmdwife. etc-)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force, 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer an-patent accomnmodation and provide a hmuted range  data
of medica; facilities                                           lIndstry rfmenrc-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital  ri-Total number of admissions to or    factunng and clectricit. water and gs as percentage of total labor
*Ascharges from hospitals divided by  the number of beds        force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data
Plarnicipaion Rate (percen-orolst. mal.e  ndfamale-Pariicipation
HOL3SI%G                                                       or activity rates are computed as touL. male. and femial labor force
Averqe Ske of Houemold (persons per household;--total, rbma,   as percentages of total. mae and female population of all ages
adrent-A household consists ofa group ofindividuals who share  respectively 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistiacl purposes  log time trend A few estirmtes are from naution  source
A-efe Number of Persos per Room-ereal, urbn. and rual-         Economic Depeadec Ratio.-R-atio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64J
occupied conventional dwellings. respectiel) Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellirgs vri Elrecricit-tortul. wrban, and rural-  Perceyage of Total Disposabe  Income both ri cash and kindj-
Conentioral dwellings with elctricity in lising quarters aspercen-  Accruing to percentile groups or households ranked by total house-
age of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROTPS
Ajusted Enrollmenr Rarios                                      The foflowmg estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P-iner school - rota), mole aid female-Gross total. male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution
female emrollment of al ages at the primary level as perentages or  Estimted Absolt Awnrpy Incoe Leel f USS per cepiaj-umrban
respectie pnmary school-age populations While many countries   and rarL-Absolute poveny income level is that income level
consider pnmar 'school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritiona.1y adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practicrs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For. some countries with universal  Estimaed Rehdner Poerty Income L l (S per caprai-urban
educatior. gross enrollment ma) exceed 100 percent since some  and roral-Rural relative poverty income klvel is one-third of
pupils a-e below or above the country's standard primary-school  avenge per capita personal income of the country Urban level is
age                                                            derived from the rural evel with adjustment for higher cost of
Srcond-:i school - total mak antdfemate-Computed as above,     living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Etimated Populaptiwon Bdo  Absole   r Prerty Income Levl (per-
mary inst:rucion; provides genral. vocational, or teacher training  cent)-urbln ad ruaIl- Pe.rcent of populauon (urban and rural
instructons for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years or age. correspond-  who are absolute poor."
ence cousies are general.1 exduded
Vocartor ! Enronmeni Ipercent of secandar i-Vocationa! mnsutu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions inc:jde technical. industnal, or s ner programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projecuons Department
independently or as departments of secondary inst.utions                                June 1985



- 22-                                        ANEX I
Page 5 of 6
kU -   aw   XrTA
Pqsul tien      9.6 auilun (I9ll)
QO  ftr apita; W1680 (193)
AntML                Mwau     AIMIl Incemae (ZI               Shue of DW  Mwket Prim. (Z)
(ailhim 11.             (at actat 10 ar.)                              (at tagwrt Priem)
hzlcan                              at  Qmt p nia
Iv3           1965-70r/ 1970-75  197540   1931-3        19b5    1970    1975   1910   19H93
NILJh AbNIS
G       tm d.tc pMnIdt a/                19,620             3.6      14.2      5.3      5.5       10.0   100.0      .0  100.0  100.0
sagtu  al                              3,1^6            -5.5      12.0      8.9      0.7        29.0    18.7    17.9   20.0   19.9
IaMtry AJ l                            5,213            13.0      14.9      0.8      4.9       22.1    29.3    24.8   24.3   25.6
Sevi. ;f                               9,9D4             5.9      14.6      6.4      7.3       48.9    52.0    57.3   55.7   54.5
txmption                                 J17,M8            9.0      22.9      5.8      7.5       90.4    90.4    87.6   87.9   W9.8
Grn inmem t                               4.592             7.0      22.0     10.3      5.1        9.6    13.1 2t.9   27.3   234
Etms of gp& aI WS                         2,440             3.0       1.      -3.3      2.6        16.7    17.4    21.2   17.9   11.8
1*ow Of gda sid WS                       5 ,                4.5     23.2       4.1      9.0       16.7    20.9    33.8   33.1   24.9
G     Nasa aatiml  Ap   d/                1,972             2.5      -7.4      2.1     -9.0         9.6     9.6    12.4    U.0   11.9
Cmition of        ue 1hdmidiss Ma X CZ)
(at ogst  r
1983        197     190    1
IE2VWOMM 7AtUE d/
1mhlite e xorts                          1,795      100.0   10D.0   1OD.0
riuy                                  1,351       90.0    93.4    76.9
In*mtrial prodts                       414        10.0     b.6    23.1
Merchadise iqprt                        4.193       100.0   1M0.0   100.0
Food                                    783       17.2    14.1    18.7
fetrolai                              1.357        9.7    25.4    32.4
chiney sd aquipit                     l.0l        33.6    2L6    23.5
fthfa                                 1,052       39.5    38.9    25.1
1978     1979     1910     1961      198Z     19I
P.-as MD 256 Cl 1PAE
G0P def ttor (1I  - IW)                       70.7    t.2    100.0    lb.4    121.7    127.5
kdum  rur el                                   3.95     3.95      3.95     3.95     3.95      3.95
Euo:  pri- indem                              45.1      n.o    100.0    1OA.        93.6     91.1
Ilmlt  price imnc                             65.0     8D.0    100.0      93.0     87.0      87.0
TMEI_ Of tcz   iinex                          69.      IB.8   1W.0    113.3    107.6    1%I.7
A Z of -!
(at canra vicw)
1975     191D     1983
-PUBLIC FBO
Czrrent reeu                                27.5      26.6     27.4
Cirrmt eaq2i                                24.9      30.3     27.8
2aplup (+2 or defit (-                     -19.2   -21.4    -16.0
Iwmmt eqpuletIfe                            21.7      17.7     15.e
FamiMi finmcirg                             11.2      11.3      7.0
1975S-0  1960-63
QP grath rae (X)                                   5.7      j.e
cm p- capica ptmh        (2)                       1.8      2.5
IwR                                                7.0      4.8
Mrgiga sairjga rate   ) (0.1    -15.9
Iqert elaticity                                    1.U      1.b
a/  Att   price.
Inc-Ires dnig and qarrying, smfacb-izg, a !  eltricity, gm,  wter sd ci3tnmtils.
Ba ind ai cW.tt 1975 pnzeu.
For the priud prior to 19  graoa dmtic  saviqp.
Ofica ;1 cta.



911- wAR  Cl rA18911 wIWIIL WIAD.6            O  Dfr 
3'pltmw        9.6 Uilli6  (198)
Qog  e lt9
3971    1 9             9 1         #         IU        1          1       19|t      1|
llt aqats at gab & WsB                       -1337    .1913    -22n       -2701    -1710               -35       -1919    -g        -191     -3
at of ro  & dsU 3WsI                         2060      2W91      23       a8        2W0       D9        Wm6      211   S236         3713
3qMt of ro *   Ws aU2                                3703    7m         30        19       Ibo       4n1      "%        676       MA       5727
ib1r e itama. 9t                                         111    Lb       Su        32       312       30l       3o9      Ns        614      613
NotF        ricum                               93       113      in2   I 65  2S      t        in        to        318       8        365      331
CAwmnt _cmt b63.6.                           -6t1t    -i3s         47    -2z6    -1          -mm3      -1167    -I         117    -          -t6O
official wMdqIid townfatr                      177      1616      1310     no17      LIM                nu         0m        07       m        Su
DIMCt  LmeStairAa                                -       -32      -56       -23        3        -          2   It            a         16       is
bilc mu (a )                                   Om        52       3Z        212      475       326       4        609       70t       671      750
katinatiok  m it                              -VA       .436     .574       4AI      -48     -42          67      -270     -6        -29      -62
ft,licUXL  (  t)                               33        126        S        71      -11       96        139      339       US        615      so
Ottb     =Y                                      a        67      -31       43        -2       677       361       31       37        636      s5o
thdn in  (_         m u- mide)                  96      -27       69        366       2        3n9        76         *      -4          9      -
IntutIion                                      3110     32        319       2        t 1s9     W2        137       ti        55       1W       Leo
inmrvmm  _   of                                  a 2      2         1         1        1   _         _         _   _   _ _
1920     W          7       111935  199  ING  16  1912   1963
Cco. dlsbunmnts aof Mt t_u                                          59       312      4U9       347      370       312      325
ca.miaul                                                         33      253      193       236      261       220      173
3iLURatm                                                      350      23        in       232      27        212      tSt
,,                                                             3         9        2         2        3         2        I
odru.ltilmrl                                                   -         -        0         4        7         6        11
me   i u l                                                        I       1O6      222      183        61        *        9
OffiiAlNI q,Ct edit                                           1        72       16       25       19        54       23
UV                                                             -        32       53        55       36        2        31
-        2         6        3        s        2         17
Priaets,                                                          5        23       29       26        26        3        6
CKAiL  DEW
Debt mAacadiag ad did.gd                                           232      1737     1938      2107     2195      2260     23i5
Official                                                        19       U53       163D     19E0     20E8      21"      2176
amj                                                            -       1113    1to       215       266      26        287
im                                                             4        39       41       42        45       47        U7
Odt                                                           1       14 1       6D1 3631  1W03   177       13        14
privee                                                           43      U1        u6s      1W7       127       9S       127
Dabt _-adi  -b-%  aldimburvd                                       342      4315     4536     4597      a39       W2m      43
Ttl d*      i                                                       36       230      26b      29B       296      316       M
ft .-                                                            30       175      195       221      33        2V       23
lotarat                                                           6        55       71       77        56       72       7n
Total dht    _M   X            of p    +11
_ ra' mittan                                                   11.0    15.6       12.1      U.3       9.4      11.7     ILI
Avaa  imC  tt g           mw  ts  16)                              4.4       4.1      3.7      4.2       3.6       6.4       3
official                                                        2.5       4.1      3.4      4.0       3.5       6.0      6.5
fet.te                                                          6.5       7.7      6.5       7.0      6.7       7.3      6.1
Auwp _bL          of n  ma , (I m- )                               8.7      2D.2     3D.1      1A.4      7.8      17.1     UJI
Official                                                       IL7       M.2      21.1      15.1     17.8      Z1A      11.4
ptivat.                                                         5.6       6.9     IL2       6.2      21.7      7.5      1O.4
MR amr wc.3 M
I31  MDtotal MD                                                    -         5.9      7.9      10.2     U_l    1L4         12.
ID  di.ointoItl              di.mamft                              -         8.3     12.2     19         9.2      6.7      1L.7
UlO det   dvetolaI  bt                                             -         3.6      5.4      7.0       2.2      9.3      132
ni MVltal 11D                                                      1.8      2.2       2.1      2.0       2.1      2.1       2.0
WA. dimbumwumlta/total am. di   _nmwnta                            5.1       1.5      0.3      0.5       0.8      0.2       0.3
lA    -1It   dt mie                                                -        0.2       0.2      0.1       0.1      0.2       0.3
An I of 166* oat,Ga%g
at Pud of "Mt  At
yew (193)
M sM
Nmity swxbm of ddt astaradli  CZ)
tkuitima dm wthi 5 yaws                                                                32.6
1htwit  d6  within 10 yews                                                          0.A
I_*azLt smtab        of debt ouatrg(C)
z.wat due within first aw                                                           12.2
I   AU .lril me aeul  .pial dAbt  wim we definAd _ in am   thS 111tw hpablsg Bytin (aly pihlic AM privat grwmacm  1W  dit).
7 kJac,m   ad  mino. al for y,j-Ie    it liclId. mt IN. iit-u, ad undentified cpitl infLcas.
a ba. of p5           dat. fir 1976-0 ard *11 capital trintien for 1978W3 a  cwermi at the offciel             _aft of Sa - 3.925 4irim  rmdm.
flub datam- crawled at a w_inted         g of 4.173 BEt 1961 ad 4.2W frr 19E2 ad 1Iaws radLttm  fmw 12 ad 193 ae m                ed   tim
Tit _   .



- 24 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits A*
(As of March 31, 1985)
Loan   Fiscal                                              Amount ($ Millions) b/
Number   Year           Borrower             Purpose      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ten loans and four credits fully disbursed               276.3    48.7
975    1974    Syrian Arab Republic    Irrigation       63.0                6.7
1546    1978    Syrian Arab Republic    Highways         52.1                7.9
1682    1979    Syrian Arab Republic    Drainage         24.7               14.7
1975    1981    Syrian Arab Republic    Education        15.6               15.6
2124    1982    Syrian Arab Republic    Agriculture    22.0                 20.5
2420    1984    Syrian Arab Republic    Sewerage         30.0               30.0
Total                                  483.7    48.7       95.4
of which has been repaid              71.1      2.1
Total now outstanding                  4I2.6    46.6
Amount Sold                   1.05
of which has been repaid   1.05      --   -       -
Total now held by Bank & IDA c/        412.6    46.6
Total Undisbursed                       95.4   - 0 -
a/ The status of the project listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects -n execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/ Net of cancellations.
c/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       Three years
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project;    MAAR and FAO
(c)  Project first identified:                April, 1981
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:          November, 1984
(e)  Negotiations completed:                  July, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           January, 1986
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III; Special Conditions
(a) Special Condition of Effectiveness:
i)  Effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement (para. 49).
(b) Other Main Conditions;
(i) A Training Division would be established and staffed and a Deputy
Director of Extension would be appointed by June 30, 1986 (para. 44);
(ii) A comprehensive training program would be prepared and furnished to
the Bank for its review by April 30, 1986 (para. 45);
(iii) Measures to strengthen the organizational and management structure
of the extension system, including training programs and technical
assistance, would be carried out in accordance with an agreed
implementation schedule (para. 47); and
(iv) A Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Syria
with an initial revolving deposit of $U.25 million (para. 54).



IBRD 18i77L
=   *3J-                                               39. *                                                 .
,__--_-                                                     e ~  ~           -                                           T U R K E Y/
<  >   -                                               rlLol^EIEJ5                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Efothc anI* locrated cntrol io
Adwo  Fe Adone ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~- Sarniow,
rr|_n  @_.%  37"                  |-                          3|1
-''-IAS  cl9d
ANbI                                                                                                                                                                                  



