RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-89
TU report Is for offca uw oy  the dank Grop and specithely authorzd orsniaton
or peons It my not be pubOWded, quoted r dwithout Dank Group authozutIon The
Bank Group des no  Pt respoalbct for the acrsay or orpteus of the report
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SPANISH NATIONAL RAILWAY (RENFE)
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
SPAIN
June 16, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Eauivalents
National Currency is the Peseta (Pts)
divided into 100 centimos
US$1.00             =  Pts  70.00
US$1 .43            =  Pts 100.00
US$'14.,285.71      =  Pts 1.00 million
Units of Weights and Measures: -Metric
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
F meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)      0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 liter (1)                 = 0.22 imp. gallon (gal)
= 0.26 gallon (US)
1 metric ton                =  2,205 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
CSTT   -  Consejo Superior de Transportes Terrestres, Superior Council of Land Transport
GATT   -  General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
ICGI   -  Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores, "Tarifa Fiscal"'
MpW    - Ministry of Public Works
PDM    -  Plan Decenal de Modernizacion, Modernization Plan, 1964 - 1973
RENFE  -  Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles Espanoles, Spanish National Railways



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY    ....................................................                         i
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................                      .                1
2.    BACKGROUND ............................................                           2
A.  Economic Setting ..............                                         2
B.    The Transport Sector ..... ............. .                           2
C.    Transport Coordination  ......................                        4
3.    THE RAILWAY SYSTEM ....... ................. .                                    5
A.    General  .....................................                        5
B.    Organization,  Management and Staff               ..........          6
C.  Railway Property ..................7  .                                 7
D.    Productivity, Traffic and Operations                ........          7
E.    Uneconomic Lines and Stations  ....              ...........          8
F.    Financial Performance  .......................                       9
4.    THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT  ..............................                          9
A.    Traffic Forecasts  ...........................                        9
B.    The Five-Year Investment Plan, 1971-1975   p                         10
C.    The Project  .................................                      10
D.    The Proposed Loan  ...........................                      12
E.    Execution, Procurement and Disbursement                              12
F.    Railway Investments by the Ministry of
Public Works  ...........................                     13
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .14
A. General.                                                                14
B.  The 1971-1975 Investment Plan .14
C. Evaluation of the Project .15
6.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ..................................                          18
A.    Past Financial Performance  ....               ..............        18
B.    Forecast Financial Performance  ....              ..........        21
C.    Balance Sheet and Cash Flow  ....              .............        24
D.    Accounting and Auditing  .....................                      27
7.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ........................................                        27
'Tis report has been prepared by Messrs. Bronfman (Economist), Karman and
Loven (Engineers) and McCunniff (Financial Analyst) and has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Interurban Traffic, All Modes
2.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
3.   Sununary of Selected Operating Statistics, 1964-1970
4.   Lines Studied for Closure
5.   Freight Traffic, Actual and Forecast
6.   Passenger Traffic by Type of Train
7.   Five-Year Investment Plan 1971-1975
8.   The Project:  First Three Years of the Five-Year
Investment Plan 1971-1975
9.   Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
10.   Revenues, Expenses and Net Income, 1960-1970
11.   Revenues, Expenses and Net Income, 1970-1976
12.   Balance Sheet Data, Actual, 1965-1970
13.   Balance Sheet Data, Estimated, 1971-1976
14.   Cash Flow Data, Actual 1969 and 1970, Estimated 1971-1976
ANNEXES
1.   1964 and 1967 Plans of Action and RENFE Performance Record
2.   Organization Chart
3.   Uneconomic Lines
4.   Consultants' Recommendations Concerning RENFE
Freight Marketing Organization
5.   Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
6.   Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores (ICGI)
(Previously Tarifa Fiscal)
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Chart Showing Relative Increases in Tariffs and General
Prices
9.   Assumptions on which Projected Financial Statements Are
Based
MAPS
1.   RENFE Lines - IBRD 1334R2
2.   Traffic Density and Track Rehabilitation - IBRD 3394



SPAIN
APPRAI[SAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Project consisting of the first three years
of the Spanish National Railway's (RENFE) US$940 million 1971-1975 Investment
Plan, for which a Bank loan of US$90 million equivalent is proposed. Although
its relative role in the transport sector has diminished as a result of the
fast development of road and air services, the railway performs an important
economic function in Spain, carrying large volumes of freight, especially
bulk commodities over long hauls, and a considerable number of passengers.
The Plan will complete and continue the 1964-1973 Modernization Program (Plan
Decenal de Modernizacion, PDM) which was designed to transform RENFE from an
antiquated enterprise operating at a large deficit and providing inadequate
service into an efficient and financially viable railway system. The PDM
included not only a large investment plan, but also measures to reorganize
RENFE's management, rationalize operations, reduce manpower and close un-
economic lines and stations, as well as changes in pricing policy and im-
provements in transport coordination.
ii.       The proposed loan would be the fifth Bank loan to the transport
sector of Spain. Loan 360-SP in 1963 (US$33 million) for highways was di-
rected to the updating of maintenance equipment and practices; Loans 387-SP
in 1964 and 507-SP in 1967 (US$65 and US$50 million, respectively) were made
in support of the railway's Modernization Program. Loan 429-SP in 1965
(US$40 million) was to support a Port Development Plan which, while replacing
and expanding many port facilities, also introduced organizational reforms
and the principles of port autonomy.
iii.      Execution of the highway and port projects has been, in general,
satisfactory. With regard to the railway projects, most of the physical ob-
jectives have been achieved, the quality of services has been greatly im-
proved and the reduction of staff (from 114,000 in 1964 to 85,000 in 1970)
has surpassed the target set for the end of 1970. Traffic units per man em-
ployed increased from 172,000 in 1964 to 266,000 in 1970, or about 55%. The
financial targets, however, have not been achieved primarily because passen-
ger traffic did not increase as forecast, and because rates and fares were
not raised in real terms as agreed but lagged below the level of inflation
as a matter of Government anti-inflationary policy. Even under these cir-
cumstances, and despite very large increases in real wages for railway labor,
RENFE's overall deficit was kept relatively stable due to large gains in
productivity and cost reductions in real terms.
iv.       This appraisal concludes that RENFE can make substantial progress
toward desirable financial targets. RENFE's labor after a further increase
in wages of 22% in 1971 is now paid on a par with general industrial levels.
Future real cost reductions can therefore be devoted to reducing the deficit
rather than increasing wages above general inflation. RENFE's competitive



- ii-
position is now much stronger than in the mid-sixties as a result of the imi-
proved service and lower prices, which built up consumer surpluses. By hold-
ing the rise in its unit costs to the general inflation rate, reducing real
costs as forecast, and raising its rates in line with inflation, RENFE should
be able to reach financial equilibrium by 1975. In a clear change of Gov-
ernment policy in April 1971, RENFE was vested with complete freedom to ad-
just its rates according to increases in the unit costs of its inputs, sub-
ject only to the constraints of the competitive market. RENFE intends now
to enact a tariff increase of about 8% in August 1971 and such action is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
v.        An important feature of the proposed project, pursuing long term
objectives of the previous Bank loans, concerns Government action to coordi-
nate investments in the transport sector and to formulate an adequate trans-
port policy. During negotiations, the Government agreed to strengthen the
agpncy created in 1964 to undertake comprehensive sector planning. This
agency has also been charged with carrying out important policy studies and
will propose draft legislation aiming to satisfy transport needs at an op-
timum social cost.
vi.       RENFE will continue its efforts to reduce costs, improve the qual-
ity of service and upgrade various areas of its operations. Measures agreed
during negotiations include further reduction of personnel to 65,300 by the
end of 1975, the complete phasing out of steam traction by 1972 and the em-
ployment of consultants to help improve marketing practices and train and
yard operations. All this action tied with the physical changes embodied in
the Investment Plan should result in important gains in productivity and
service quality and reliability which should help to improve the competitive
position of RENFE in the transport sector and help RENFE to fulfill its role
in the Spanish economy.
vii.      The main items in the proposed Project, which has a total cost of
US$519 million, are improvements to permanent way (46%), rolling stock (19%)
telecommunications and signalling (8%) and electrification (6%). The pro-
posed loan would finance specific goods procured through international com-
petitive bidding: rails and steel members for concrete ties, 19 diesel and
15 electric locomotives, 20 electric multiple units, 475 freight cars, 90
baggage vans, track maintenance and air brake equipment, containers, copper
for telephone and overhead wire, signalling equipment and consulting ser-
vices. The foreign exchange component of the Project depends on the rela-
tive success of local and foreign bidders in competing for the contracts to
be awarded under the Project. The maximum would be about US$137 million
equivalent and the minimum about US$104 million; the most probable figure
based on past bidding experience would be atbout US$123 million. This is to
be financed by the proposed loan of US$90 million, the undisbursed balance
of Loan 507-SP, about US$14 million, and the Government's own foreign ex-
change resources. The loan would be made to RENFE and guaranteed by the
Government.



- iii -
viii.     Under the proposed loan, goods will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Local manufacturers will compete for
most of these goods and will be accorded a preference in evaluation of bids
of 15% or the prevailing tariff, whichever is the lower. The "Impuesto de
Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores" (ICGI) or "Tarifa Fiscal" imposed on
imported goods to compensate for Spanish indirect taxes will also be added
to foreign bids for evaluation purposes as under previous transport loans to
Spain. If Spanish manufacturers win bids, it is proposed not to penalize
RENFE by cutting back the loan to cover only the foreign exchange component
of these locally manufactured goods, but to disburse as if the bids were won
by a foreign bidder, deducting only the amount of indirect taxes paid by the
local manufacturer in Spain or the equivalent of the ICGI.  If Spanish man-
ufacturers should win as much as 100% of bids for which they will compete,
which is not likely to happen, about US$32.4 million or a maximum of 36% of
the loan would in effect cover local currency costs. The actual figure will
certainly be lower and is tentatively estimated at about US$14 million, less
than 16% of the proposed loan. In any case the total Bank contribution to
the Project, US$104 million, does not exceed the minimum estimated foreign
exchange component.
ix.       The Project has a sound economic justification.  A significant part
of Spain's traffic can be carried most economically by railway; the Project
will make it possible to carry the traffic at lower costs, improve the qual-
ity of service and satisfy the needs created by national economic policy and
development strategy. The rate of return on the investment is about 14%,
which is satisfactory.
X.        The proposed Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to
RENFE of US$90 million equivalent for a term of 20 years including a four-
year grace period.






SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Spanish National Railway (RENFE) has asked the Bank for a loan
of US$90 million to help finance part of the estimated foreign exchange cost
of RENFE's investment during the 1971-1973 period. The Project would con-
sist of the first three years of RENFE's Pts 66 billion (US$940 million
equivalent) 1971-1975 Investment Plan. RENFE's total investment during the
Project period is estimated at Pts 36.3 billion (US$519 million equivalent)
with a maximum foreign exchange component of about US$136.6 million equiva-
lent.
1.02      This would be the third Bank loan in support of RENFE's Ten-Year
Modernization Program (Plan Decenal de Modernizacion, PDM), which began in
1964. The first two loans were made in 1964 (387-SP) and 1967 (507-SP) for
US$65 million and US$50 million, respectively. The objectives of this
Modernization Program were to end the chronic deterioration of railway
operations and to ensure that RENFE did not continue to default on its
proper role in the Spanish economy.
1.03      The Modernization Program includes not only large new investments
to modernize and improve services and operational practices, but also a
reorganization of management, large reductions in staff and increased pro-
ductivity, closure of uneconomic lines and services, reform of the pricing
structure to reflect costs and competition, and improved public policy on
transport investment, pricing and regulation. The necessary measures to
accompany the program were translated into detailed plans of action which
formed the basis for ithe first two Bank loans.
1.04      On the physical side, performance under the previous Bank loans
to RENFE and the action plans has been quite satisfactory. Important in-
creases in productivity and improvements in the quality of railway services
have been achieved. Progress toward desirable financial targets, however,
has been disappointing.
1.05      The proposed railway loan is in line with the Bank's other activ-
ities in Spain, which aim at introducing and supporting much needed struc-
tural and policy reforms in priority sectors. The financial viability of
the railways and an improved Government organization for comprehensive plan-
ning of the transport sector are, among others, major objectives being pur-
sued through the proposed loan.
1.06      This appraisal is based on information supplied by the Government
of Spain and RENFE and on the findings of a Bank mission in November/Decem-
ber 1970, comprising Messrs. Bronfman (Economist), Karman and Loven (En-
gineers) and McCunnif (Financial Analyst). This report was prepared by
them and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Spain has an area of about 500,000 km  and a population of about
33.5 million which is growing at a low annual rate of 1.0%. Along with eco-
nomic development, cities such as Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao, Valencia and
Seville are growing rapidly, but 30% of the total population is still wide-
ly dispersed in centers of less than 5,000 inhabitants.
2.02      In 1970, after a decade of an average annual growth in GNP of 7.5%,
per capita GNP was about US$850. The leading sectors of economic growth were
industry and services, especially tourism, with agriculture lagging behind.
Three main factors contributed to a strong increase in imports: high indus-
trria  investments, dependence in most industries on foreign imports and the
rising standard of living. The outcome was a substantial deficit in the
trade balance, which the Second Development Plan 1968-1971 attempted to
correct by promoting the development of heavy industry and the export of
manufactures.
2.03      For the Third Development Plan 1972-1975, now being prepared by
the Government Planning Commission, a 6% annual growth can be expected and
was considered realistic by the most recent Bank economic mission. The rel-
ative decline is due mainly to a change in resource allocation, channeling
more funds to education and other areas of social services. The Government
is promoting development centers ("Polos de Desarrollo") in an attempt to
improve the regional pattern of development and to decentralize industry.
Out of seven centers established since 1965, two (Huelva and Burgos)
became successful; attention is now directed to similar schemes at Granada,
Oviedo, Cordoba and Logrono. Another feature of economic policy impinging
on transport demand is the support being given by Government to the expan-
sion of the steel industry. The new plants located in Asturias (Gijon and
Aviles) are generating flows of iron ore and coal from several domestic
sources as well as outflows of finished steel products.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.04      Mountainous terrain and the concentration of population and eco-
nomic activities in widely separate areas in the north (Basque provinces),
the northeast (Cataluna) and the center (Madrid), mean that all surface
modes of transport are faced with costly investments and comparatively long
hauls. Spain has an extensive system of land transport, its principal
routes radiating from Madrid to other important cities, with lateral con-
nections between them and extensive local and branch systems. Although
there are some 300 ports in Spain, only a dozen are of any importance, with
major container developments planned for Barcelona, Bilbao and Cadiz. Air
transport has assumed an increasing role favored by fast growing tourism.



- 3 -
2.05      In the early 1960s when the process of development was accelerated,
many of the transport Eacilities were antiquated and had gradually deterior-
ated because of inadequate maintenance. The Government launched a substan-
tial program of structural reforms and investment with which the Bank was
closely associated. Total Bank lending for the sector has so far amounted
to US$188.0 million. Loan 360-SP in 1963 (US$33.0 million) for highways was
directed to the updating of maintenance equipment and practices. Loan 429-SP
in 1965 (US$40 million) was to support a Port Development 1lan which,
while replacing or expanding many port facilities, also introduced organiza-
tional reforms and the principles of port autonomy. Loans 387-SP in 1964
and 507-SP in 1967 (US$65 and US$50 million, respectively) were made in sup-
port of RENFE's PDM. Annex 1 shows the progress made with respect to the
measures contained in the plans of action which formed the basis for these
two loans.
2.06      Freight traffic in Spain grew rapidly between 1961 and 1969, from
about 46 to 82 billiorn ton-km, involving an annual average increase of 8.6%
(Table 1). Rail and coastal shipping, although increasing their traffic in
absolute terms, declined in their respective shares of the total freight mar-
ket from 18% and 37% to 12% and 31%, respectively. Road transport, favored
by the pattern of development and by the absence of restrictive regulations,
had a spectacular growth, increasing its market share from 45% to 57%. The
trucking industry, largely formed by owner operators, provides fast and
flexible service to industry and trade; competition within the industry,
as well as with other modes, is intense. Favored by higher speed and reli-
ability, truckers have also been able to capture from the railway some long
hauls of high value commodities. Railway traffic (discussed more fully in
paragraphs 4.01 to 4.03) consists mainly of bulk commodities over long hauls,
on some of which there is competition from coastal shipping. The railway
is also the major carrier of citrus exports to Central Europe. It is now
attempting to increase its share of the freight market by further improving
the quality of service, upgrading its marketing organization and developing
container services. Recent investments in infrastructure and equipment and
improved planning are enabling the railway to capture more traffic of higher
rated commodities such as steel products and automobiles.
2.07      The growth in traffic has been more dynamic for passengers than
for freiglht, almost trebling between 1961 and 1969 (Table 1). With ris-
ing personal income, increased mobility and tourism, the private car played a
key role; its share of the total market increased from 38% to 59% in the last
decade. Railway passenger traffic had a slharp spurt of over 50% between 1961
and 1966 but declinedI in 1967 and 1968, infltuenced by an economic recession.
The 1966 level was regained in 1969 and surpassed in 1970.  Effective air
services are provided by thie Government-owned carriers Iberia and Aviaco
between major cities and to the Spantshl islands (Canary an(I Baleares).
Ihiring severe winter weather, however, the railway provides the only re-
liable transportation for various regions and clties in the country.



-4-
C.   Transport Coordination
2.08      Under Loan 507-SP, the Government decided upon a number of actions
to improve transport coordination.  These measures, outlined in the 1967 Plan
of Action (Annex 1), were studies regarding transport pricing, taxation and
investment criteria; surveys of the transport market and action to achieve
more effective regulation and policing of highway transport. The studies,
which were concentrated on fiscal treatment of road and rail transport to
determine if competition between those modes was distorted by taxation and
other aspects of public policy, did not reveal unfairness to the railway.
Neither did they recommend the regulation of rates applied by road haulers;
they stressed, however, the need for more flexible railway pricing. The
other studies and surveys provided Government agencies with methods and
techniques for evaluation of transport projects and with relevant informa-
tion to be used in elaborating transport policy (para. 2.12).
2.09      The studies mentioned in paragraph 2.08 recommended that Government
should improve the planning procedures for the transport sector as a whole
because, as in many countries, planning of transport investments is performed
by loosely coordinated Government agencies in charge of project execution,
with decisions often being taken on other than economic criteria. The need
for a project planning coordinating agency has become more urgent in view of
the large resources being allocated to the sector by Government.
2.10      Following Bank recommendations, in 1964 the Government established
the Superior Council of Land Transport (Consejo Superior de Transporte Ter-
restres - CSTT) within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) as an advisory body
with authority to study all aspects of land transport coordination as well as
ports. After a good start and a satisfactory performance in carrying out
the studies agreed with the Bank and in collecting transport data, the CSTT
has lost its momentum and some well qualified staff have left. Since the MPW
controls investment on all modes except air transport, the planning coordi-
nating agency should be located in the MPW. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the structure and functions of the CSTT will be broadened and its
organization will be strengthened along lines agreed with the Bank. During
1972, the CSTT will carry out studies concerning transport policy (para.
2.12) and a work program for the CSTT for the ensuing years will be prepared
by the end of 1972 in consultation with the Bank.
2.11      The provision of freight transport services in Spain is a highly
competitive business. Shippers have a free choice in selecting the mode of
transport and the carrier best suited to their needs, and entry into the
transport industry has been practically unrestricted. RENFE is still sub-
ject to a common carrier status although many of its obligations as such
are progressively being relaxed; improvement of RENFE's position in this
respect is being sought through further action to reduce the burden of low
density traffic lines (para. 3.12) and unprofitable passenger services (para.
4.05), and by affording RENFE pricing flexibility (para. 6.07). While a
recent nationwide survey of the freight market (Annex 1) showed that about 80%
of the transport users are satisfied with the present situation, during recent



- 5 -
years the established road transport industry and the railways have been de-
manding Government regulatory measures to restrict competition. This pres-
sure increased early in 1971 as a consequence of a slack in the overall de-
mand for transport.
2.12      In May 1971, the Ministry of Public Works issued regulations of a
temporary nature by which restrictions were imposed on the increase in sup-
ply of trucking and bus capacity. Although intended to control what has been
claimed to be uneconomic competition within the road transport industry, the
new regulations could certainly result in an artificially increased demand
for railway traffic. Experience in other countries has shown that there are
serious administrative problems in enforcing restrictive measures, and what
is intended to be a temporary measure often becomes a permanent protection
of vested interests. During negotiations, it was agreed that the CSTT will
carry out appropriate studies, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
in order to prepare proposals for basic legislation concerning transport pol-
icy. The studies and draft legislation will be completed by October 1972 and
will be sent to the Bank for comment. It was also agreed that if the tem-
porary measures of May 1971 are still in effect and the studies referred to
above conclude that such measures are no longer required, the Government will
terminate the restrictions by not later than December 1972.
2.13      With regard to interurban passenger services, there are regulations
which give RFNFE priority rights to establish bus services along highway
routes which are parallel to railway lines. In some cases, RENFE exploits
the franchises by providing bus services itself or by subcontracting them to
private bus operators; on certain routes, RENFE does not exercise its option,
while other bus operators, anticipating that RENFE will provide the service,
do not apply. As a consequence, bus services on some routes are not provided.
During negotiations iLt was agreed that in one of the studies referred to in
paragraph 2.12 above, the CSTT, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
will assess the overall economic implications of the existing regulations and
will make recommendations about future policy in this field.
2.14      Among the actions mentioned in paragraph 2.08 (1967 Plan of Action)
the Government undertook to provide for mobile weighing stations and proper
facilities to enforce more strictly weight and size regulations and safety
inspection of motor vehicles. Action in this field has been slow. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will take all necessary
action to achieve effective enforcement of such regulations.
3. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
A.   General
3.01      In 1964, RENFE, was an antiquated enterprise providing inferior ser-
vice; it had a poor public image and was not a serious competitor in the
growing and changing, transport market. Some of its equipment dated from the
nineteenth century, track was generally ln bad shape, trains were frequently



-6-
late and service was unreliable. Staff morale was low; its attitude toward
the public was indifferent. By exceeding the productivity targets set under
previous Bank loans, RENFE has dramatically improved its quality of service
to the equal of most European railways, staff morale is much improved and
the enterprise is adopting a much more customer-oriented and aggressive comr-
mercial policy.
B.   Organization, Management and Staff
(i) Organization
3.02      RENFE operated as a department of the Ministry of Public Works un-
til 1962 when a temporary decree gave it autonomous status and independent
management over which the Government reserved certain powers. In conjunction
with the first Bank loan in 1964, the Government enacted a statute establish-
ing RENFE as a public corporation to be operated along commercial lines. The
statute provided for a Board of Directors and general and zonal management
giving RENFE wide authority over management. It reserved to the Government
the power to: (a) appoint the Board of Directors and its Chairman; (b) es-
tablish general policy on tariffs; (c) approve the annual operating and in-
vestment budgets, longer term investment plans, and proposed borrowings; and
(d) incorporate new lines into the system and close down existing lines, A
recent decree (1970) eliminated the MPW representative, who used to attend
Board meetings with the right to veto board decisions temporarily.
(ii) Management
3.03      The General Manager is charged with day-to-day management and exe-
cution of Board decisions. He attends the Board meetings but does not vote.
He is free to delegate powers to department heads and to managers of the
seven zones into which RENFE is divided (Annex 2). The present Chairman and
General Manager, both appointed in 1970, have had no previous railway exper-
ience but are able and energetic businessmen. The senior staff is well quali-
fied. Frequent changes in the top management have adversely affected decision-
making at high level. Between 1967 and 1970, four Chairmen and three General
Managers have been in office. The Bank has expressed concern on this subject.
During negotiations, it was agreed that more continuity for RENFE's manage-
ment will be sought through, inter-alia, the establishment of fixed terms of
office.
(iii) Staff
3.04      The staff of RENFE in 1970 numbered 85,000, compared with 114,000
in 1964. These reductions exceeded the targets specified in the revised plan
of action of 1967 by 12%. During the same period, traffic increased from 19.3
to 22.6 billion traffic units (pass-km plus net ton-km). This 25Z reduction
in staff with a 17% increase in traffic volume is a good achievement. The
phasing out of steam traction, modernization of motive power and rolling stock
and rehabilitation of track all contributed to make the staff reduction pos-
sible, but the drive of management in eliminating redundant staff was a big
factor. There is still scope for further improvement and RENFE intends to



bring its regular staff down to 65,300 in 1975, giving a reduction of 43% in
11 years. This has been agreed during negotiations. The main reductions
would take place in workshops (diesel and electric traction replacing steam),
track (long welded rails and mechanized maintenance), level crossings (re-
placed by overpasses or automatic gates) and locomotive crews (suppression
of the helper on most trains).
C.   Railway Property
3.05      RENFE operates a 13,500-km system of which 14.5% is double track
(Map 1). A total of 3,120 km (23%), carrying 38% of the traffic, is elec-
trified, in two separate regions: the north-south main trunk line and the
northeast coast line. The gauge is 1.668 m (5 ft 6 in) compared with 1.435
m (4 ft 8-1/2 in) in continental Europe and U.S.A. The same broad gauge is
used in Portugal but transfer of passengers and freight into different roll-
ing stock is normally needed at the French border. Recently, some express
coaches have been fitted with variable gauge axles, the change being made
automatically on a special transition track, at a speed of about 5 km/h.
A private firm, Transefesa, operates a fleet of freight cars with inter-
changeable axles, mainly for the citrus traffic with France and other
European countries.
3.06      Of 960 main line locomotives in use, 217 are steam, 388 are elec-
tric and 355 are diesel. Phasing out of steam traction is progressing ahead
of schedule. During negotiations, it was confirmed that complete phasing
out of steam, including closing of all steam workshops, will take place not
later than December 15172. All 322 shunters are diesel. RENFE's locomotives
are generally well maintained and in good condition, except for 55 electric
locomotives which are more than 40 years old.
3.07      Of the 3,05'3 passenger vehicles, 611 coaches are of wooden con-
struction and more than 35 years old; they will be scrapped as soon as
steel replacements become available. Thirty-three electric units of the
same age will also be scrapped. Some years ago, RENFE's freight car fleet
was out of proportion to the traffic needs, consisting of a large number of
over-aged, obsolete cars. Since 1964, many uneconomic freight cars have
been scrapped and partly replaced by modern specialized units. The total
fleet decreased numerically from 63,700 in 1964 to 50,400 in 1970 but still
includes over 12,000 cars more than 40 years old. The program is to reduce
the number to about 34,000 in 1975. Table 2 shows the breakdown of RENFE's
locomotive and rolling stock fleets, by type and by years in service.
D.   Productivity, Traffic and Operations
3.08      RENFE is now reasonably well operated.  Table 3 shows a summary of
selected statistics from 1964 to 1970. Between 1964 and 1970, operating ef-
ficiency in terms of net ton-km per train-km increased 34% from 175 to 235.
There is room for further improvement. Pass-km per train-km decreased from
congestion levels over the years, as a result of a replacement of a number



-8-
of conventional passenger trains by more efficient railcars and multiple
units. These have given an improvement in service to which the public has
responded: pass-km increased 16% between 1964 and 1970. Staff efficiency is
good at 266,000 traffic units per employee (an increase of 55% over 1964) com-
pared with 239,000 in Italy, 268,000 in Germany and 339,000 in France. It
will improve still further with the full implementation of the manpower
reduction plan (para. 3.04).
3.09      A team of consultants (Transmark of UK) was in Spain in late 1970.
In a report dated January 1971, they recommended a review of the station and
yard operations and improvements in the planning of motive power and rolling
stock utilization. They advocated more extensive use of computerized tech-
niques.  These recommendations were accepted by RENFE; during negotiations,
it was agreed that RENFE will continue to employ consultants to implement
them. The proposed loan includes US$500,000 to finance the assistance of
consultants for this purpose as well as for the improvement of RENFE's com-
mercial department (para. 4.03).
E.   Uneconomic Lines and Stations
3.10      In accordance with conditions under Loan 387-SP later revised under
Loan 507-SP, RENFE agreed to study 49 low density traffic lines totalling
2,638 route-km. By March 1971, RENFE had completed the studies on 48 lines
comprising 2,624 km. There have been delays in carrying out the studies,
which are complex and require considerable empirical information, but on the
whole, RENFE's performance has been satisfactory.
3.11      The conclusion of the studies and subsequent action by Government
and RENFE in their implementation are shown in Table 4. RENFE has requested
abandonment of a total of 1,089 route-km, of which 505 are already closed to
traffic. Government has yet to approve RENFE's proposals submitted in
February 1969 and March and August 1970 for six lines totalling 559 km (out
of which 267 km are requested to be closed for all service and 203 to be
closed for passenger service). Appropriate action by Government on the pro-
posals submitted in February 1969 and March 1970 is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan. During negotiations, it was agreed that Govern-
ment action on the August 1970 proposal will be taken before the end of 1971.
3.12      RENFE will continue the study of low density traffic lines.  Agree-
ment was reached during negotiations on a program of studies of 55 lines in-
volving 4,009 km (Annex 3). It was also agreed that in those cases where
Government decides for economic, social or political reasons to keep operat-
ing an unprofitable line, RENFE will be reimbursed specifically for the fi-
nancial savings that could have been realized by closing the line.
3.13      As part of the 1967 loan, RENEE also agreed to study 1,500 stations
(out of a total of 3,000) during the next six years with a view to discontinu-
ing service at those determined to be uneconomic. By October of 1970, a total
of 631 stations had been closed or converted to reduced operations. RENFE's
performance on this matter has been satisfactory. Agreement to continue this
program of rationalization was confirmed during negotations.



-9-
F.  Financial Performance
3.14      While RENFE's performance in physical terms has on the whole more
than met the targets established by the plan, an important measure of its
performance was set by previous loan agreements in terms of financial tar-
gets to be achieved by specific dates. Progress toward achieving these
targets has been unsatisfactory. This matter and future financial targets
are discussed in Chapter 6.
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   Traffic Forecasts
ti) Freight Traffic
4.01      A freight traffic forecast prepared by RENFE for 1971-1976 is pre-
sented in Table 5. Total commercial freight measured in ton-km is expected
to increase by 31% in the six-year period, an annual average of 4.5% as com-
pared with 4% for the 1964-1970 period. In 1976 the railway expects to
move over 31 million tons of freight with an average length of haul of 350
km.  Detailed marketing studies have been carried out for eight major commod-
ities and for container traffic, comprehending about 80% of total commercial
freight. The quality of the forecast is adequate and the assumptions of
growth are reasonable.
4.02      Iron ore traffic is expected to double between 1971 and 1976 to
satisfy part of the demand of the steel industry with domestic ores pro-
duced in Asturias and Andalucia. Steel plants are located in Gijon, Avi-
les (Asturias) and Sagunto (near Valencia). Measured in ton-km, iron ore
is expected to be the most important commodity in 1976, followed by iron
and steel products, petroleum distillates, coal, grains, citrus and vegeta-
bles, fertilizers and chemical products, in that order.
4.03      The consultants, Transmark (para. 3.09), made important recommend-
ations for improving the profitability of RENFE's freight business and its
marketing activities. The implementation of these recommendations, which
are listed in Annex 4 and include the creation of a commercial planning
unit, improvement of the processing of marketing information, improvement
of the data used for costing, delegation of selling responsibility to zones,
etc. is now under way. Agreement was reached during negotiations that RENFE
will continue to employ consultants to carry out this work. A contract was
signed by RENFE in April 1971 with the same consultants for technical assis-
tance in these areas and for the container market study (para. 5.10). The
proposed loan includes US$500,000 to help finance this technical assistance;
no retroactive financing is proposed.



- 10 -
(ii) Passenger Traffic
4.04      Passenger traffic is expected to reach 15.0 billion pass-km in
1976, an overall increase of 15.3% in 1971-1976 (compared with 16% for the
period 1964-1970), an average of 2.4% per year. RENFE has prepared the
projections by type of train and service (Table 6), which provides a good
basis on which to judge the soundness of the passenger business and to
formulate commercial policy decisions.
4.05      RENFE has also made a cost study of all passenger trains and
services during 1969. The findings showed that the revenues of several
services, particularly over short distances in areas of low population
density, do not cover the variable costs of operations, including rolling
stock depreciation. During negotiations, RENFE agreed to take appropriate
action concerning these services, including total or partial discontinuation
of services, if necessary. Because any reduction of services is likely to
impinge mainly on short distance services whose share in the total figure is
LIUL large, the overall projections are still considered acceptable in terms
of total pass-km.
B.   The Five-Year Investment Plan, 1971-1975
4.06      As shown in Table 7, the Plan provides for capital investment of
Pts 66 billion (US$940 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component
of US$212.5 million. The Investment Plan is based on studies by RENFE of fu-
ture traffic and capital requirements and it has been approved by the Govern-
ment. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is the enactment of
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, incorporating the Investment Plan.
It has also been agreed that no important changes will be made in it except
as may be agreed with the Bank.
4.07      The main item in the Plan is track rehabilitation.  It includes
complete renewal of 4,500 km of track and ballast renewal on another 1,600
km. It also includes construction of over- and underpasses to eliminate
about 900 level crossings, installation of automatic gates for most of the
remaining level crossings, and improvement of track substructure and bridges.
Small amounts are earmarked for industrial sidings and warehouses.
4.08      Other important items are improvements of stations and yards, pro-
curement of 61 diesel and 42 electric locomotives, 42 railcars and trailers,
30 electric multiple units, 1,713 freight cars, 125 passenger cars, 115 bag-
gage vans and modernization of telecommunications and signalling. A special
item provides funds to be used as incentives for redundant personnel when re-
tiring before their normal times.
C.   The Project
The Project consists of the first three years of the 1971-1975 Plan.
Vs shown in Table 8 and summarized below, its total cost is  estimated at
>-;u.:19 million equivalent. The estimated maximum foreign exchange component
i; sbcut US$137 million, of which US$14 million would be provided by the re-
nain er of the previous Bank loan to RENFE (507-SP) and US$90 million by the



- 1 1 -
proposed loan. Total Bank contribution would thus meet about 20% of the Proj-
ect cost. The rest would be provided by RENFE's own funds, about US$94 mil-
lion equivalent (18%) and by Government, about US$321 million equivalent
(62%). During negotiations, Government confirmed that it will make the nec-
essary funds available to RENFE.
PROJECT                  PROPOSED LOAN
Foreign     Total    % of       Loan         x
Co8t      Cost      Total     Items        of
US$ million         Cost   US$ million   Loan
Permanent Way                   63.8       230.8    46.2         36.2      44.4
Locomotives                     18.3         31.7     6.3        16.6      20.4
Railcars                        13.7        23.8      4.8        10.0      12.3
Rolling Stock                   20.1        38.3      7.7        12.1      14.9
Containers                       1.4         1.5      0.3         1.3       1.6
Workshops and Stores              -          17.6     3.5          -         -
Telecommunications               3.8        10.4      2.1         0.4       0.5
Signalling                       5.2        30.5      6.1         1.1       1.4
Electrification                  5.2         30.2     6.0         3.2       3.9
Social                            -         14.3      2.9          -         -
Investment Studies                -          9.6      1.9          -         -
Personnel Reduction               -          53.0    10.6          -         -
Deferred Maintenance              -          7.1      1.5          -         -
Consulting Services             0.5          0.6      0.1         0.5       0.6
Total               132.0        499.4   100.0        81.4      100.0
Price Contingencies              4.6         19.7     3.9         8.6      10.5
Grand Total         136.6        519.1   103.9        90.0      110.5
4.10      There is no physical contingency allowance, civil engineering works
being small. Price contingencies in the RENFE plan amount only to 3.9% for
the Project period. This low price contingency reflects the fact that RENFE's
budget is expressed in monetary rather than physical terms and since the
plan is an ongoing exercise, price increases larger than forecast can be han-
dled by adjusting the physical program accordingly. This practice is fully
satisfactory in the circumstances of RENFE.
4.11      Under the Spanish law for the protection of national industry, Gov-
ernment agencies including RENFE are obliged to buy Spanish products if they
are of satisfactory quality, regardless of how much more expensive they are
than similar foreign products. The only exception is for goods financed by
IBRD loans, which are procured through international competitive bidding.
Therefore, about 80% of the procurement during the Project period will be
reserved to Spanish suppliers. Spanish prices for railway equipment are
generally 15-25% higher than world market prices; thus, this reserved procure-
ment does not involve large diseconomies.



- 12 -
4.12      In paragraph 4.09 and in Tables 7 and 8, the foreign exchange com-
ponent shown is the estimated foreign cost if all items procured through in-
ternational competitive bidding are won by foreign bidders. This is not like-
ly to happen (para. 4.18). If 811 bids were to be won by local firms, the
foreign content of the Project would drop from US$137 million to about US$104
million; the most probable figure is about US$123 million based on past bid-
ding experience.
D.   The Proposed Loan
4.13      Investments included in the Project but not selected for the pro-
posed loan are either being financed from other sources or are unsuitable for
Bank financing because they involve small, scattered contracts. Most of the
investments planned for 1971 and some planned for 1972 are already contracted
and are not included in the proposed loan. No retroactive financing would be
involved.
4.14      As shown in detail in Table 9, US$36.2 million (about 45% of the
total) would be for track materials, mostly rails and steel units for concrete
ties, and track maintenance equipment. Locomotives and electric multiple
units would require US$26.6 million (33%). About US$12.1 million (15%) would
finance 475 freight cars of various types and 90 baggage vans, the balance
being for air brake equipment, containers, copper for telephones and overhead
wire and signalling equipment. A complete description of the Bank-financed
items is given in Annex 5.
4.15      The goods to be financed by the proposed loan have been defined in
absolute physical terms. The price contingency allowance is therefore higher
for Bank-financed items than for the whole Project at 4% for 1971, 8.5% for
1972 and 12.9% for 1973, an average of 10.5% over the three-year period,
based on forecast price movements at about 4% per annum.
E.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
4.16      While consultants are required to help in specialized fields such
as investment and marketing studies on containerization, RENFE is generally
able to carry out the Project without technical assistance.
4.17      All goods financed under the loan would be acquired through inter-
national competitive bidding. In bid evaluation, Spanish manufacturers would
be granted a margin of preference by adding 15% or the applicable customs du-
ties, whichever is lower, to the foreign bids. In addition, foreign bids will
be adjusted for bid evaluation purposes by the addition of the amount of the
"Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores" (ICGI or "Tarifa Fiscal").
A similar procedure was followed in the two previous loans to RENFE, in the
highway Loan 360-SP and in the ports Loan 429-SP. This tax imposes on im-
ported goods the indirect taxes which are levied on the same goods when manu-
factured in Spain (Annex 6). Under the "General Agreement on Trade and Tar-
iffs" (GATT), a country is allowed to tax imported goods according to its in-
ternal tax system and GATT has accepted Spain's ICGI on this basis as a tax



- 13 -
to equalize competition between domestic and foreign products which would
commonly be exempted from domestic taxes in their country of origin. For
railway equipment, it ranges from 11% to 16% of the CIF price plus customs
duties.  Under Spanish practice, confirmed by agreement during negotiations,
the 15X (or tariff if lower) and the ICGI will also be added to the foreign
component of local bids for bid evaluation purposes. This means that even
if the ICGI were considered as a purely irotective device in contrast to the
ruling of GATT, the resultant rate of effective preference in terms of
domestic value added would still be limited to about 30% - which is reason-
able and relatively low compared to that afforded by the working of the
Bank's preference rule in most other countries.
4.18      Should all tenders be won by foreign bidders, the total of US$90
million would finance only foreign exchange costs. This is an unlikely as-
sumption, however, and in view of the outcome of tenders for procurement of
railway equipment under two previous Bank loans to RENFE, local bidders are
likely to win a large portion of the orders. If local bidders won all bids,
about US$32.4 million would be local cost financing. This would represent a
maximum of 36% of the amount of the proposed loan. Predicting the outcome of
international competitive bidding is difficult, but a reasonable estimate based
on previous experience is that foreign firms would win orders for about
US$35 million while Spanish firms would win the remaining US$55 million. In
this amount, imported parts and raw materials, of which Spain is a net im-
porter (mainly steel and copper), would account for about US$41 million so
that the probable local cost financing would be on the order of US$14 million,
or only 15.5% of the lproposed loan. In any case, the total Bank contribution to
the Project, US$104 million, would not exceed the estimated minimum foreign ex-
change component.
4.19      Cost estimates are based on recent quotations obtained for similar
goods under internatioDnal competitive bidding. If any savings result from fav-
orable prices in competitive bidding, the corresponding savings in the loan ac-
count would be used to finance the cost of additional but similar Project items
subject to review and agreement with the Bank. For imported goods, disburse-
ments would be made on the basis of CIF costs. For goods procured locally,
disbursements would be made on the basis of total ex-factory costs, excluding
indirect taxes. Annex 7 shows an estimate of disbursements assuming the pro-
posed loan becomes effective in the Fall of 1971.
F.   Railway Investments by the Ministry of Public Works
4.20      RENFE's statute stipulates that RENFE has autlhority to plan and
build new lines; it also states that RENFE might ask assistance from and
delegate these actions to the MPW and this, in fact, is what happens.  In ad-
dition, the MPW can carry out other infrastructural works for RENFE such as
station buildings, freight terminals and marshalling yards. There is now more
coordination between MPW and RENFE in this respect than in the past. During
negotiations, it was further agreed that in every case, new railway construc-
tion by MPW will be supported by technical, economic and financial studies
agreed by RENFE and that prior to starting the construction, the Government
will inform, and exchange views with, the Bank.



- 14 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The railway, which moves about 165 million passengers and over 25
million tons of freight per year, is an essential part of the Spanish eco-
nomy. The long distances between production and consuimption centers in the
country and the reliability of railway service during winter months give
RENFE a good comparative advantage over other modes for certain routes and
traffic. To exploit this advantage in a highly competitive environment,
RENFE plans to continue the process of modernization and servlce improvement.
The railway carries a large volume of bulk commodities, moving in unit trains
and carloads for average distances of over 300 km; to carry such freight by
road would be considerably more costly. This is the basic rationale for the
Investment Plan which, carried out simultaneously with important disinvestments
and d coherent program of measures for organizational improvements, will reduce
railway operating costs, improve service and provide additional capacity for
increased traffic. The Plan also provides for services to the growth centers
and to heavy industry, fitting, therefore, within the Government strategy for
economic development.
B.   The 1971-1975 Investment Plan
5.02      RENFE is pursuing five main objectives through the implementation
of the 1971-1975 Investment Plan. They are:
(a)  To improve productivity by an average of 10.4% per year:  This
section of the Plan deals with the reduction of staff members and
working costs by the elimination of level crossings or the pro-
vision of automatic barriers, mechanization of track maintenance
and improvement to workshops and stores. Included in the Plan is
the amount of severance pavments required to achieve reduction in
staff numbers. Economic benefits are derived from savings in
railway operating costs and increases in speed and safety of
operations.
(b)  To increase RENFE's share of freight transport: Investments are
proposed for containerization, palletization, entry into develop-
ment and industrial areas, commercial warehouses for national
distributors, new freight rolling stock, access to central food
markets, principal marshalling yards, concentration depots for
small consignments, new private sidings and establishment and
improvement of custom depots. Economic benefits take the form
of savings of overall transportation expenditures by shippers,
including cost of inventories.
(c)  To attain a speed of 140 km/hour for passenger trains
over the main network: The greater part of this expenditure
is devoted to improvements in the track, infrastructure, braking



- 15 -
power of rolling stock and signalling. Economic benefits will
derive from the increase in speed of trains and will materialize
in savings in rolling stock, crew time and passenger travel time.
A higher speed of trains is an important feature to improve the
quality of service.
(d) To improve social standards for the staff: The bulk of this
expenditure, which comprises about 3% of the total Plan, is for
housing and 'the provision of training centers, staff amenities
and dormitories. Economic benefits cannot be directly attributed
to these types of investments, which are required on social grounds
and are common to many railways in the world. The size of the
works is reasonable.
(e) To introduce technological improvements: This is essentially work
of a researc'h and development character, covering automatic coup-
lings, automatic wagon identification, cab signalling, air
brakes, interchangeable axles and air conditioning of coaches.
These expenditures are reasonable and are required to incorporate
new technological developments, after the economic viability of
the new techniques is shown.
5.03      RENFE still operates several lines of low traffic density of doubt-
ful economic viability. Since RENFE will study these lines (paras. 3.12), no
investments are planned on them during the Project period 1971-1973. Some
cost savings works originally planned on low traffic lines, such as rebal-
lasting and elimination of manned level crossings, are postponed until 1974/
1975. This work is contingent upon the outcome of the studies and, if clos-
ure is recommended, upon a Government decision to keep the lines in operation
and contribute to their cost. This point was confirmed during negotiations.
5.04      Following the Transport Coordination Studies (para. 2.08), more
work was done by RENFE in the economic evaluation of projects. However,
economic work still requires more attention by management. For instance,
proposals for specific investments geared to capture more traffic such as
industrial sidings, although usually well conceived, need careful examina-
tion of their profitability.  During negotiations, it was agreed that RENFE
will issuie by mid-1972 specific rules satisfactory to the Bank concerning
the analysis to be applied in order to assess the priority and timing of new
investments, the technique of financial appraisal and the minimum rate of re-
turn required for appiroval.
C.   Evaluation of the Pr42let
5.05      Major investments proposed in the Project are evaluated in the
following paragraphs.
(i) Track Rehabilitation
5.06      The Project calls for the complete renewal of 2,63q km of track
and the reballasting of 579 km with a total cost of Pts 10.3 billion or
US$147.0 million equivalent. The track is in poor condition in the sections



- 16 -
to be renewed, and speed and load restrictions are imposed for safety rea-
sons. The economic benefits to be expected take the form of savings deriveuI
from (a) reduced track and rolling stock maintenance, (b) improved safety
of operations, (c) improved rolling stock utilization and crew time, ob-
tained from higher speeds and (d) reduced fuel consumption.
5.07      RENFF has carried out an economic evaluation for all the lines
included in the program.  Under assumptions of a traffic growth of 3.5% per
year and without allowing for the increase of present maintenance and operat-
ing cost without the Project, the economic rates of return ranged from 12%
to 17%. The variation of the rates of return is due to the differences in
investment cost, traffic and present physical situation of the lines. Sensi-
tivity analysis shows that under the most pessimistic assumptions of no traf-
fic growth, similar returns would range from 8.5% to 12%.
(ii) Electrification
5.08      During the Project period, RENFE plans to carry out the complete
electrification of two lines: Valencia-Tarragona (246 km; Pts 850 million)
and Madrid-Guadalajara (45 km; Pts 200 million). The first line, along the
Mediterranean coast, carries important traffic of citrus, gasoline and in-
dustrial products, connecting the rapidly growing region of Valencia with
Barcelona and the French border. It is electrified from the Spanish-French
border south to Tarragona. The Madrid-Guadalajara section is part of the
Madrid-Zaragoza-Barcelona line; the electrification would serve only com-
muter passenger services.  RENFE has carried out the economic studies for the
proposed investments. Quantifiable economic benefits arise from savings in
locomotive maintenance, increased availability of motive power and, in the
Madrid-Guadalajara section, increased speed. The economic rate of return
is 12% without accounting for the greater flexibility of capacity of electric
traction; this is an important factor during the citrus export season and
could prevent the diversion of large tonnages to higher cost modes. The
financial returns to RENFE increase to 17.5% when the gas-oil tax (included
in the cost of fuel for diesel operations) is considered.
(iii) Rolling Stock
5.09      RENFE will be able to reduce its freight car fleet substantially
during the Project period (para. 3.06) because of improved utilization.
Purchase of 1,124 new special type cars at a total cost of Pts 958.0 million
will satisfy more efficiently the traffic requirements of steel, paper prod-
ucts and grains which otherwise would have to be carried by truckers. The
cost per ton-km of hauling these commodities by rail is about Pts 0.75 as
compared with Pts 1.15 by truck. The economic benefits amount to Pts 157.0
million per year and the economic rate of return is 16%.
5.10      RENFE intends to start regular container services for domestic
traffic in mid-1971. Tn the first stage, unit trains of containers will op-
erate between Madrid-Barcelona, Madrid-Bilbao and Barcelona-Bilbao; during
the second stage, starting in 1973, container services will also be provided



- 17 -
to Sevilla, Valencia and Zaragoza.  The Project includes the purchase of 405
flat cars and 652 (20 ft) containers at a total estimated cost of Pts 376
million. According to reasonable estimates prepared by RENFE, the container-
ization plan is justified with a financial return of about 20%. The economic
rate of return is higher, about 24%.  However, RFNFF does not have detailed
plans for all the operations involved in this service (collection and deliv-
ery of containers, invoicing procedures, etc.). In April 1971, RENFE engaged
the services of consultants, Transmark, to carry out a complete market study
and to provide technical assistance for implementing the plans on container-
ization.
(iv) Signalling
5.11      The Project includes Pts 2.1 billion (US$30.5 million equivalent)
for Centralized Traffic Control and other improvements in signalling at sta-
tions and level crossings. The works, to be carried out only on lines of
heavy traffic, are scattered over the network, but follow a comprehensive
plan. Economic benefits are derived from savings in labor and increased
speed of trains, line capacity and safety. The rate of return on these in-
vestments is estimated at 15%.
(v) Telecommunication Equipment
5.12      An efficient and reliable communication system is essential for
RENFE's operations and management. The main works proposed are for the re-
placement of open wire lines along some sections of trunk routes with coax-
ial cable system. The lines to be replaced are old, requiring expensive
maintenance, and interruption of service due to failure is frequent. The
Project also includes the provision of automatic telephones, teletypes and
radio links to meet the increased demand of communications associated with
a higher quality of service. The total cost of the investments is Pts 730
million or US$10.4 mlillion equivalent. Savings of operations and mainte-
nance amount to about Pts 152 million per year, representing an economic
rate of return of 15% over the useful life of the equipment, estimated at
25 years.
(vi) Conclusiorn
5.13      The rationale tnderlying the investments included in the Plan and
the Project is soundt and the objectives pursued are desirable and realistic.
Investments are geared to complete the Modernization Program started in 1964
and to provide the railway with the quality of service necessary to capital-
ize its inherent advantages within the transport network in a highly competi-
tive environment and to serve the needs created by the economic policy and
development strategv. The works are concentrated on trunk lines with high
traffic density. The weighted average economic rate of return on the in-
vestments which have been quantified (72% of the Project) is about 14.4%,
which is satisfactory. The rest of the Project is made up of various in-
vestments on stations, yards, and stores (about 12%) which are obviously
required and by investments in social infrastructure, technological research
and payments for the reduction of personnel (16%).



6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Past Financial Performance
6.01      As pointed out in paragraph 3.14, financial targets have not been
met. According to the objectives established under Loan 507-SP, RENFE was
to cover cash operating expenses and interest payments beginning in 1969,
and depreciation as well from the year 1970. Revenues, expenses and net in-
come in the period 1960-1970 are set forth in some detail in Table 10; the
period 1965-1970 can be summarized as follows:
(Pts Billion)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969         1970
Revenues                15.1   15.6   16.7   17.1   17.8          19.3
Working Expenses        16.7   16.9   19.2   20.2   19.3          19.5
Working Results
(Loss)                (1.6)  (1.3)  (2.5)  (3.1)  (1.5)        (0.2)
Depreciation             1.7    1.9    2.2    2.4    2.6           2.9
Operating Results
(Loss)                (3.3)  (3.3)  (4.7)  (5.5)  (4.1)        (3.0)
Interest                 0.6    0.6    0.7    0.4    0.5           0.7
Net Income
(Deficit)            (3.9)  (3.9)  (5.4)  (5.9)  (4.6)         (3.7)
Deflated by the rise in the general price index since 1965, the 1970 deficit
amounted to Pts 2.8 billion as compared to Pts 3.9 billion in 1965. Ith terms
of operating ratios, the performance was as follows:



- 19-
Operating Ratios (Operating Expenses
Including Depreciation as a % of Operating
Revenues)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970
First Loan 387-SP
Targets, 1964          120    115    110    101       99      95
Second Loan 507-SP
Targets, 1967           -      -      119    108      99      93
Actual                   122    121    128    132    123    116
The trend in the working ratio (before depreciation) has been as follows:
Working Ratio (Operating Expenses not Including Depreciation
as a % of Operating Revenue)
1965        1966       1967        1968        1969        1970
110        109         115         118         108         101
Altogether, these figures indicate that until 1970 there had been very little,
if any, progress toward the financial targets set under previous loan agree-
ments.
6.02      The reasons for this are basically as follows:
(a)  In 1967 and 1968 an abrupt slowdown in the rate of growth of
the economy from an annual average of 8.37 to 5.2X had a severe
effect upoIn traffic, particularly passenger traffic. This in
turn had a large impact on revenues which had not been foreseen
in the forecasts.
(b)  The financial projections assumed real price increases for
railway services, but the Government, as a matter of policy, held
down railway prices despite rising costs in order to dampen in-
flationary pressures. RENFE was authorized to raise its rates and
fares by an average of abotut 17% in the period 1965-1970 with
costly lags behind a general price inflation of nearly 34%. Thus
RENFE rates to its customers were reduced in real terms by a
stubstantial margin (Annex 8).
(c)  Further, RENFE and the Government followed a wage policy which
increased real wages (wage increases over and above general
inflation levels) by over 48% during the 1965-1970 period. Thus,
RENFE's unit costs for its inputs rose by over 80% - more than
double the rate of general inflation.



- 20 -
(d)  Finally, RENFE's commercial policy and marketing capacity were
weak, and RENFE followed a timid pricing policy which did not
fully exploit the meager opportunities to increase net revenues
that were afforded by Government authorized rate increases.
6.03      Despite these problems, substantial gains in productivity have
enabled RENFE to keep its operating costs (adjusted on the basis of
constant 1966 general prices) in line with the forecasts.
Average (Fully Distributed) Cost per Traffic llnit (1966 General
Price Levels)
1966     1967      1968    1969    1970
Pts
Forecast        0.93      0.96     0.94    0.90    0.87
Actual          0.93      0.95      1.01    0.90    0.82
It is probably unrealistic to assume that further cost reductions could have
been achieved or that the real wage increases could have been withheld. As
it was, labor reduction exceeded plan targets by 12% and even after the
large increase in real wages, RENFE's labor rates were in 1970 still slight-
ly below the general industrial level. The default in reaching the finan-
cial targets clearly lies on the revenue side of RENFE's operations.
Traffic and Average Revenue per traffic Unit
(Constant 1966 General Price Levels)
1966     1967      1968    1969    1970
Forecast traffic units          20.4      22.1      23.1    24.0    24.8
(billions)
Actual traffic units            20.4      21.0      20.0    21.2    22.6
(billions)
Forecast Average Revenue          .76       .80       .87     .91      .94
(Pts)
Actual Average Revenue            .76       .75       .77      .74     .70
(Pts)
The reduction rather than the forecast increase in real prices for RENFE
services and the shortfall in traffic explain the continuing deficit.
6.04      From a commercial point of view it could be argued that RENFE,
eveii If authorized by Government, could not have raised its rates and, in fact,
hlid to redtce them in real terms (sutbject to staying above marginal costs)
in order to retaln and( attract the traffic that should be carried by rail.
Ilsually, substantial improvement in railway services must precede any in-
crease in rates whether in real terms or merely to keep up with inflation,
if an established trend of diversion to road transport is to be abated or
reversed. RENFE's slow traffic growth rate during this period compared to



- 21 -
that of other modes gives some support to this argument. However, there is
good evidence that RENFE's prices could have at least kept up with the gen-
eral level of inflation, i.e., remain unchanged in real terms, without ad-
versely affecting traffic levels. RENFE's main competition, the trucking
industry, which is subject to strong internal competition, sets prices which
reflect those of RENFF, and would probably have raised its rates pari passu
with RENFE with little impact, if any, on the division of traffic between the
modes. On balance, the conclusion reached in this appraisal is that RENFE
probably could not have raised its prices faster than general inflation,
but that some time ago RFNFF. did or should have crossed the threshold where
price reductions in real terms were no longer required to retain and attract
its appropriate traffic. If RENFE prices had merely kept up with general in-
flation, considerable progress toward the financial targets would have been
made.
B.   Forecast FinanciaLl Performance
6.05      For the future, achievement of financial viability should remain
the goal - an a matter of long-term economics and to avoid the undesirable
effects upon efficiency and investment that chronic deficits and dependence
upon Government usually entail. Furthermore, the latest Bank economic re-
port emphasizes the urgent need to reduce the large deficits of Spanish pub-
lic sector enterprises. RENFE is by far the largest contributor to these
deficits. Progress toward financial viability cannot be achieved unless (a)
RENFF.'s prices can be raised more or less in line with general inflation
without pricing the railway out of its markets, and (b) increases in RENFE's
unit costs can be held to the level of general inflation.
6.06      It is this appraisal's conclusion that there should no question
that significant progress can now be made toward desirable financial targets.
RE.NFE is in a much stronger position than it was in 1964.  Its labor
numbers are under control, and with further wage increases already agreed,
22% in 1971 and 8% in 1972, wages of its remaining staff are and will be
about on a par with wage levels in other industries. Therefore, in the fu-
ture, there should be less pressure and less justification for substantial
real wage increases. Furthermore, the consumer surpluses built up by the
service improvements and lower real rates of the past six years should be
exploitable, if they have not been before now, by improved marketing and
selective pricing action.
6.07      It is now clear that Government has adopted a financial policy for
RENFE which will permit reasonable progress toward elimination of the defi-
cits and attainment of viability within a reasonable period of time. By
Decree 885/1971 of April 26, 1971, published in Official Bulletin No. 101,
the Government gave RENFE virtually complete freedom to adjust its prices
to cover its rising uinit costs subject only to the constraints of the mar-
ket. The decree was fully implenentedl by Ministerial Order on May 14, 1971.



- 22 -
6.08      As a result, RENFE has agreed, as a condition of effectiveness, to
increase its rates and fares effective August 1, 1971, by an average of 8%
which, after adjustments for individual shippers, is expected to yield net in-
creases in revenues of about 6.1%. On an annual basis additional revenues
of Pts 1.1 billion will be earned. Moreover, other measures including a
substantial increase in the Canon de Coincidencia (road tax receipts ear-
marked for RENFE originally designed to compensate in an imprecise way for
public service obligations and to offset imbalances in the competitive posi-
tion between road and rail transport) will produce Pts 0.9 billion. The in-
crease in the Canon de Coincidencia is Pts 633 million in 1971 and is fore-
cast to grow to Pts 2.99 billion by 1976. While this receipt is a needed
addition to the cash flow of RENFE, its justification on economic grounds
is questionable and the Government is in the process of reviewing it. It
was agreed during negotiations that the Canon de Coincidencia, which is a
receipt much like a Government subvention thiat is not related to RENFE's
plant or efficiency, will be disregarded in the establishment and achieve-
ment of the agreed targets for financial performance.
6.09      RENFE has also agreed that, on the occasion of a proposed wage in-
crease or if necessary periodically to attain the agreed financial targets
referred to in paragraph 6.11, it will (a) explore every possibility of recov-
ering increases in its costs; (b) provide a plan to recover to the fullest ex-
tent possible such increases through additional traffic and other commercial
measures, further reductions in operating costs and/or adjustment of rates
and fares (over and above those included in the projections) or by a combi-
nation of these methods; and (c) provide the Government and the Bank with
tlue plan's estimated financial results in quantitative terms. After a wage
increase has been awarded and the plan has been finalized, it will be for-
warded to the Bank for comment. It was agreed during negotiations that the
initial plan under the newly acquired rate freedom will be sent to the Bank
before November 15, 1971 and completed before November 30, 1971. This plan
for 1972 will increase net operating revenues by at least the equivalent of
a 4% rise in total freight and passenger revenues, which will provide net
operating revenues amounting to about Pts one billion by 1976.
6.10      The financial forecast is shown below (subject to some slippage
due to lags between the impact of inflation and consequent rate action).
See Table 11 for detailed financial forecasts and Annex 9 for the assump-
tions on which the estimates are based.



- 23 -
Billions of Pesetas
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Operating Revenues             20.4    21.8    22.4    23.5    24.4    25.0
Additional Required
Net Operating Revenues
from the 1972 Plan
(para. 6.09)               -       0.4      0.8      0.9     0.9      1.0
Total                          20.4    22.3    23.2    24.4    25.3    26.0
Working Expenses               22.7    22.7    21.8    20.9    20.2    20.1
Cash Profit (Loss)             (2.3)   (0.4)    1.4       3.5      5.1      5.9
Depreciation                    3.8      4.1      4.4     4.7      5.0      5.5
Total Net Operating Revenues (6.1)   (4.5)   (2.9)   (1.3)    0.1           0.4
Canon de Coincidencia           1.6      2.2      2.4     2.6      2.8      3.0
Interest                        0.8      0.7      1.0     1.1      1.2      1.2
Net Income (Deficit)           (5.3)   (3.1)   (1.5)    0.2        1.7      2.2
Ratios:
Operating          130      120      113      105     100       98
Working            111      102       94       86      80       77
NOTE:  Totals do not always equal sum of the factors because of rounding.
6.11      Based on the foregoing it was agreed during negotiations that RENFE
will earn operating revenues (not including receipts from the Canon de Coin-
cidencia) sufficient to (a) meet all cash operating expenses and interest pay-
ments on debt beginning in the year 1973 and cover, in addition, charges for
depreciation beginning in the year 1977; and (b) attain an operating ratio of
not more than 100 in the year 1975. It was also agreed during negotations
that reasonable progress toward these targets, after excluding receipts from
the Canon de Coincidencia, would be 120 in 1972, 113 in 1973 and 105 in 1974.
These financial indices are satisfactory and feasible; they would involve no
significant real increase in railway rates, provided RENFE's unit input costs
are kept in line with general inflation. During negotiations, the Government
and RENFE confirmed that the achievement of the agreed financial targets will
require that RENFE's unit costs for personnel be kept in line with those of
RENFE's competitors except to the extent that RENFE's productivity targets
are exceeded.



- 24 -
C.   Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
6.12      RENFE balance sheet data for the years 1965-1970 inclusive are
shown in Table 12. The current, liquid and debt equity ratios have been as
follows:
Ratios
Years           Current           Liquid           Debt/Equity
1965              1.8              1.1               26/74
1966              1.8              0.9               25/75
1967              1.4             0.8                25/75
1968              1.4             0.8                 9/91
1969              1.4             0.9                10/90
1970              1.4              1.0                8/92
6.13      The current and debt/equity ratios have been satisfactory.  The
liquid ratios have been generally unsatisfactory. Even more precarious have
been the levels of working cash capital. In order to improve this situation,
it was agreed in 1967 with the Government and RENFE that Government would
make quarterly payments in advance for deficits, debt service and capital in-
vestments, as approved semi-annually in the initial and revised budgets for
each year; and that similar advance payments every two months would be paid
for RENFE transportation services to Government in accordance with Govern-
ment budgets. This agreement has not been effective. The amounts owed to
RENFE by the Government are shown as accounts receivable in Table 12. On
December 31, 1969 and 1970, these amounts were Pts 5.49 billion (US$78.5
million) and Pts 9.71 billion (US$139 million), respectively. A new law,
No. 26 of December 2, 1970, has been passed to remedy this situation;
under its provisions the Government has already paid RENFE virtually the
entire amount.
6.14      The Government also agreed under Loan 507-SP to make available to
RENFE, through credits or other financial means, the necessary funds so that
cash working capital would not be less than 8% of its annual cash operating
expenses in 1967, 10% in 1968, and 12% in 1969 and subsequent years. These
objectives were not met in any of the last five years, despite the opening
of a special credit from the Bank of Spain in 1966. The outstanding balance
of this credit was about Pts 4.65 billion on December 31, 1970 to offset non-
payment of deficits by Government. This was repaid to the Bank of Spain
early in 1971 as a result of the new budget law referred to above.



- 25 -
6.15      The Government agreed, during negotiations, to provide RENFE with
such funds as may be needed to carry out the Investment Plan and other or-
ganizational improvements, to meet cash operating expenses, to provide ade-
quate cash working capital and to cover its debt service. It also agreed
to make quarterly payments in advance to RENFE as approved annually in the
initial and revised budget for each two-year period, for deficits, debt
service, capital investment, transportation and other services by RENFE for
the Government, subject to adjustment, if necessary, in subsequent periods.
6.16      RENFE balance sheet data for the years 1971-1976 inclusive are set
forth in Table 13. The current, liquid and debt equity ratios are as fol-
lows:
RATIOS
Current        Liquid        Debt/Equity
1971         2.5             1.3            10/90
1972         2.3             1.3            13/87
1973         2.2             1.1            14/86
1974         2.0             1.0            14/86
1975          1.9            1.0            14/86
1976         2.2             1.3            13/87
The foregoing ratios are satisfactory, except for liquidity in 1974 and 1975.
This is a minor problem which would require short term access to the special
deposit account which has been established in the Bank of Spain, and used in
the past to cover short term cash needs.
6.17      The cash flow estimates for the 1971-1976 period, set forth in de-
tail in Table 14, reflect the clear improvement in cash position resulting
from the improvements in financial relations between the Government and RENFE.
The following summary tabulation indicates the sources of funds, in absolute
and relative terms, to finance the Investment Plan during the Project period
1971-1973 and the post-Project period 1974-1976, and for the entire Plan per-
iod 1971-1976, in billions of pesetas.



- 26 -
Post-             Six-Year
Project Period       Project Period         Period
1971-1973            1974-1976          1971-1976
Investment
1, Investment Plan                36.34                42.07            78.41
2. Deferred Payments
Prior Year                  1.30                  0.04             1.34
3. Total Investments              37.6                 42.11            79.75
II   Sources
1. Net Operating       (13.58)                (0.73)            (14.31)
Revenues
2. Depreciation         12.29                15.17               27.46
3. Changes Working      (0.28)                0.38               0.10
Capital
4. Stores Used for       0.25                 -                  0.25
Investment
5. Internally                     (1.32)               14.82            13.50
Generated
6. Canon de Coin-                  6.15                 8.35            14.50
cidencia
7. Less Debt Service              (8.96)               (6.53)          (15.49)
8. Cash, Beginning of   0.39                  2.83                0.39
Period
9. Cash, End of Period  2.83                  3.12               3.12
10. Cash Retained                  (2.44)               (0.29)           (2.73)
11. Total RENFE Funds  (17.4)    (6.57)        38.8     16.35    12.3    9.78
12. Provided by Govern-
ment
Contributions             36.69       45.5     19.16    70.3   55.85
Sale of Land               0.20        4.5      1.90      2.6    2.10
Total            98.0     7F79        50.0O              72.9 17.95
13. IBRD Loans           19.4       7.32        -         _        9.2    7.32
14. Other Loansi!          -         -        11.2       4.70      5.6    4.70
Total 11, 122, 13       100.0      37.64     100.0      42.11   100.0   79.75
and 14
Note: 1/  Other Loalns totalling Pts  1.93 billion are being sought for
the 1971-1973 Project period but are not yet firm.  To the
ex:ent these loans materialize, the Government contribution
will be reduced.



- 27 -
D.   Accounting and Auditing
(i) Accounting
6.18      After initial difficulties, because of almost simultaneous adop-
tion of a new commercial system and use of computers, progress in accounting
procedures improved in 1969 and 1970. Depreciation policy, based on the
straight line method and acceptable estimates of salvage values and service
lines, is satisfactory. Further improvements in accounting practices are
being considered which involve reclassification of income accounts on a func-
tional basis, revaluation of assets including land, and separation of oper-
ating and non-operating accounts such as fixed assets, expenses including de-
preciation, accumulated depreciation and revenues. It was agreed during ne-
gotiations that these improvements in accounting practices will be established
beginning with the year 1972.
(ii) Auditing
6.19      External auditing is performed annually by an independent commer-
cial auditor, Wenceslav Millan Fernandez, Censor Jurado de Cuentas. The
auditors' report for 1969 was prepared and made available in July 1970.
While the auditing procedures and report have been accelerated substantially
since 1967, further improvement is required in order to comply with the
agreement reached on the occasion of Loan 507-SP to forward the certified
copies of financial statements and auditors' report not later than five
months after close of RENFE's fiscal year on December 31.  It was agreed
during negotiations that this would be done.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Action will be taken by Government to broaden and strengthen
the structures and functions of the CSTT (para. 2.10);
(b)  The Government will carry out appropriate studies in order
to prepare proposals for legislation concerning transport
policy and will review in the liglht of these studies the
need for the temporary measures of May 1971 concerning re-
strictions to road transport (para. 2.12);
(c)  By 1975 RENFE's staff will be reduced to 65,300 (para. 3.04);
(d) RENFE will study 55 low density traffic lines and the un-
realized savings will be specifically reimbursed by Govern-
ment when closure of a line is denied (para. 3.12);



- 28 -
(e)  RENFE will employ consultants to study the container market
(para. 5.10), to improve the Commercial Department (para. 4.03)
and to improve the planning of train operations (para. 3.09);
(f) RENFE will prepare a financial plan for 1972 before November
30, 1971 to increase net operating revenues by at least the
equivalent of 4% of total freight and passenger revenues
(para. 6.09);
(g) RENFE will earn operating revenues sufficient to (i) meet
caslh operating expenses and interest beginning in 1973; (ii)
cover depreciation as well in 1977; and (iii) attain an oper-
ating ratio of 100 in 1975 (para. 6.11).
7.02      The action by Government on RENFE's proposals concerning uneconomic
lines submitted in February 1969 and March 1970 (para. 3.11), the enactment
of legislation incorporating RENFE's Investment Plan (para. 4.06) and satis-
factcry action by RENFE to increase gross revenue by Pts 2.0 billion (on an
annual basis, para. 6.08), are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
7.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$90 million, for a term of 20 years including a four-year grace period.
June 16, 1971



TABLE 1
S P A I N
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Interurban Traffic, All Modes
Freight (Billion ton-km)
Coastal
Year      Rail          Road              Shipping               Total
1948      7.6 (32%)      4.3 (18%)         11.9 (50%)            23.8
1961      8.1 (18%)     20.6 (45%)         16.8 (37%)           45.5
1966      8.9 (1h%)     36.9 (56%)         19.9 (30%)            65.7
1969      9.7 (12%)     47.1 (57%)         25.5 (31%)            82.3
Passenger (Billion pass-km)
Private
Public Transport                                     Transport
Year      Rail          Bus                Air                          Total
1948      8.8             1.3               --        n.a.              n.a.
1961      9.3 (31%)       8.7 (29%)         .5 (2%)    11.4 (38%)       29.9
1966     14.2 (25%)      11.9 (21%)        0.9 (2%)    29.5 (52%)       56.5
1969     14.3 (16.5%)    19.7 (22.8%)      1.4 (1.6%)  51.1 (59.1%)    86.5
Source: Ministry of Public Works
March 1, 1971



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Years in service, up to               5           10           15          20           25           30           35           4o           45           50          Total
Electric Locomotives
Less than 2,000 HP                                                                                                              5           36            7             48
2,400                                                             3          18            1                                                                 22
2,860                                                                                                                            12                          12
3,000                     13           50          127          54                                                   1                                      245
3,500                     16                                                  11                                                                             27
4,220                     34                        _                        _                                                                               34
Total                    763                       127        337             29           1                        7           7              7      
Pieqel Locomotives
Talgo                                10            6                                     3                                                                              19
Less than 2,000 HP                   91           11          41                                                                                                      143
2,000                     90                                                                                                                                 90
2,180                     72                                                                                                                                 72
4,000                     31                                                                                                                                 31
Total                    2X9           77          41                         3SW
Shanters:  150-630 EP                86          196            7          33                                                                                          322
Passenger Stock
Diesel Railcars                     284          120           10                       15            5           38                                                   472
Electric Units                       45           75          43                                     29                        33                                      225
Coaches:  Talgo                      85           81            4                       24                                                                            194
Wooden                                                                                                             611                                      611
Steel, 2 axle                                      100                                                                                                      100
Steel, bogie             147          582          104          205         347                                     72                                    1 457
Total                                m20                                                            7            73 v71
Freight Cars
2-axle:  Brake vans                              174          96           38                                                  83          397                        788
Flat cars                 675          280        2,129       1,190          504          232                       577        2,958                       8,545
Gondolas                    1        1,090        3,024       3,688        1,540        2,041                                    900                      12,284
Hopper cars               227          633                       351                                                             601                       1,812
Box cars                2,299        1,335        4,290        1,686          720       3,613          688        1,716        5,294                      21,641
Cattle cars                            198                                                                                       617                         815
Fruit cars                                                                                                                       323                         323
Bogie:   Baggage vans                 5           81            8                       30            5           15            7           86                        237
Flat cars               1,042           23          343           26                        8                                    257                       1,699
Gondolas                                                                                                                          ho                          4o
Hopper cars               330          100          544                                                                          142                       1,116
Box cars
Tank cars                 102          117                       102                                                              35                         356
Service cars:  Open                  21            3           16          15                                                              119                         174
Box                               29          18           23           94           12                                   398                         574
Total                              ,702            391 7                7,119                                    703       2,383       12,167                      50,o404
March 1971



TABIE 3
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIXO RAILWAY PhOJECT
Summary of Selected Ocerating Statistics 1964-1970
I264        1965         1966         1967        1968         1969         1970
I. SYSTEM
Total Route Km                                           Km            13,475      13,504       13,276       13,281       13,558      13,562       13,668
II. PA3SENGER TRAFFIC
Total Passengers                                      million             185.3       181.4        178.6        177.4       148.0        158.9        164.4
Passenger Km                                          million          11,449      12,198       12,523       12,437       11,836      12,647       13,293
Average Distance of Trip                                 Km                61.8        67.2         70.1         79.9         80.0        79.6         80.9
Passenger Km per Route Km                              (000)              850         910          943          936          873         933          972
III. FREIGHT TRAFFIC!/
Total Net Tons                                        million              26.2        25.5         22.9         25.6         25.9        25.8         28.0
Net Too Km                                            miLlion           7,807        8,067       7,882        8,565        8,245       8,599        9,341
Average Raul                                             Km               289         308          305          309          297         313          322
NRt Too Km per Route Km                                (000)              579         602          594          645          6o8         634          683
IV. OPERATIONS
Locomotive Km                                         million             156.8       163.8        169.1        171.0        167.7       167.6        170.9
Troit K., Pasoeogers                                  million              66.1        71.6         75.4         77.9         78.9        80.3         80.5
Train Km, Freight                                     million              44.6        44.5         44.2         45.5         43.5        41.8         43.2
Train Km, Total                                       million             110.7       116.1      . 119.6        123.3        122.5       122.1        123.7
Gross Too K., Passenger Trains                        million          15,747       16,674      18,237       18,814       18,714      18,572       18,898
Gross Ton Km, Freight Trains                          million          21,520       21,319      20,759       22,008       21,133      21,730       23,574
Gross Toe K., Total                                   million          37,317       37,993      38,996       40,822       39,847      42,o65      45,232
V. OPERATING EKFICIENCY
Passenger Km per Train Km                            Passengers           173.2        170.4       166.1        159.6        150.0       157.5        165.1
Average Speed, Passenger Trains                         Km/h             n.a.        n.-.           42.1         42.7         44.8        45.4         46.4
Gross To. Km per Train Km                               Tons              483         477          470          485          486         519          546
Net Ton Km per Train Xm                                 Tons              175         181          178          189          201         218          235
Percentage Net/Gross Ton Km per Train Km                  S                36.2        37.9         37.9         39.0        41.4         42.0         43.0
Average Speed, Freight Trains                           Km/h             n.a.        n.a.           18.8         19.7         20.9        22.3         23.8
Average Load per Loaded Freight Car                     Tons               19.5        13.6         13.9         14.9         15.7        16.6         17.9
Turnaround Time, Freight Cars                           Days               10.0        10.3          9.9          8.8          7.8          8.6         y.Q
VI. AVAILARILITY
Steam locomotives                                         %                73.8         72.3        68.7         61.6         56.2         47.3        31.3
Electric Loomotives                                       ;                90.8         87.4        84.3         85.8         83.4        85.5         88.o
Talgo Locomotives                                         %               100.0        97.2         92.9         88.1         93.1        94.6         94.7
Diesel Locomotives                                        8                88.1         87.6        91.7         92.2         91.4        86.4         84.8
Passenger Coaches                                         S                81.6         79.3        78.8         78.7         78.0        80.1         82.9
Freight Cars                                              8                87.3        85.6         79.3         83.0         67.1        70.0         74.2
VII. STAFF EFFICIENCY
Number of Employes                                                    114,072      111,240     108,510      104,518       98,260      88,216       85,035
Employees per Route Km                                                      8.5         8.3          8.2          7.9          7.3         6.5          6.2
Traffic Units per Employee                                            172,058     182,174      188,047      200,941      204,356     247,642      266,232
1/ Includes oosmeroial and mapplier s traffic, and mail. E-cludes service traffic.
April 1971



TABIE fi
a     -                                  a'   a ' .,               a'   .4           a'HH ta'              a'   a-- 0                   c i i   e 
Cc      ci                                   c-i     -'C              o                                                  c-cO    
00                                                        a-                    c.a        a .  0.             =         '    a-    a-    =o a-0  a'o~K    wa ~^s^>===J3\ :lb
a | X E t0 $c-cc--                                      o       - R                        R                                 .-  a -       I-
0a-        0                                   a 'c- 0:  =-                                0010.                 0.10=. S =         ===.-  ci   c, =.=     ^w==                              ~          t
S                   E    ~             ~ ~~Sc             0c            0.               >    0.0                 .. 0c  O c 
O   o                                #                            4                 z'                                                                <                 <'    
4    00 0| '..0 o0    u 000.xn                                                                                                                                                                            4       s      ^!
@~~~~~~~0                                                 x     a   '                             G0.                            -       O     .    ~      c -                      -      wl3.
a-             I             I nv
X~~ ~ ~~~                 ~                              a- ao a|                                               C i-a                              a' m                          i1
:0~~                                               a  a-                                                                                                                              @                                
a-a-e                                                ,,      a-            I                           I                              i                                     o           oK                                                                                    h      2
ic         a- b                                                                                                                       a-     O.j=,  3 a|                                                  G~
a  0=1  a-a                              o(Y6                                                                                         ,'   a- a   a:<i' .,P
E ~ ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ci                                                                                     .0                                                                                         "0 ;al,  s3e,3 XHd : a           aEX ,19r ;{<, 
o 03, I  ozr -' ff O |2 . N  H   < g' ao  $ 3r MO   O 
S          o                                                                                                                              a  a'= r      ;2t              < Xprz i5EO Ea QSg          f         
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                                                                                c                                                         Si  o                       6      c      cXEf>fOgP3oBI~XHid        l|  
21         .            00                       O6N  n            J                                                                                        .00              08                                  HOI N                            N<IF



TABLE 5
O          CHO4HO     .0                              COIH- G       EOF1   e0H                            0 IA  O        H         0s   '
XV O
^ c  0               NA       '  A     1 J    HHO.n1                J       O H    OD  O                                0 >  0E   C
Auodic N   i                                    .o.,NOo    I                Na  mE1                  I    a            a        %  'a
>H0 |                                               -4F ov   o<r  o gC<O1     H  O  CO   'A                    40 |    't A     
H  9H4HtA4                      0            o'rA4Hg   H          H           .4   'AO   D 0f^o 
a N0                             04                       .0    4                           H .C     r     
H|             . H              4                                              0 .  .                           H    1(   L, o N (       
044.404 41H                                  o4HHO4-4'A                        H     .4    '         .X    .    H          .
;                      >1           -4 ni ~ 2    N 2   1Zq      O             HH,    4H           0             2 4                             0    A N r 
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                                                                                 H              o>_._____ H 
{ a S P <HH'E  NAH .  .                                        N      O     .-H'            H           'A    4       4    H          '.         EA H
|   H                        _    _          _ _                                                       . _ ~ ~              ~       ~~~~~ H   N 1
041          H,,           HO           4           .J    H    4H         Co           H    Co    H         HE    4 0             C1 0   
- ~     ~       ~       o 0FN \                    10    H                   0HHnO1r        
+4H4 fm    204                                                                 'A    -      40    G        Hn    C        C  Eg     O  0   
401.~~~                                                                                                                                            _ '*
H~ ~~~ ~ ~             ~ ooo'                                                                                                                  Q 4
00                      0     4       H4      H     H          H _4 A C' A                                  'A    0      H       '0 |C     
HO~~.;                                                                                                                            H           h                  Hg          E Di H j<r  lDi|Xrl|a )t1
H~~~                                      1'  > H -H   E .                 O D  H 4    2         S                 G                 i 0  A  H      H H  4                        
4      ~                     _I                    No'                       H+          C        4            4 4         s         HO        H        '



S P A I N
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic by Type of Train
(1969-1976)
(Billion pass-km)
Actuals                                    F O R E C A S T
Type of Train           1969          1970        1971         1972         1973        1974        1975         1976
Express and Mail        5.007         5.347       5.578        5.818        5.956      6.075         6.197      6.321
TALGO                     512           699         697          678          701        725           749         773
TER                       841           917          960       1.038        1.068      1.098        1.129       1.158
TAF                       137           152         167          182          197        212           227        240
Electroter                 _             -          210          322          331        340           350        359
Diesel Railcar          1.056         1.170       1.270        1.360        1.440      1.510        1.570       1.620
Other Railcars            150-          110           70          50          117        164           210        258
Electric Railcars       2.038         2.078       2.114        2.227        2.292      2.403        2.432       2.45o
Other Trains            2.906         2.527       2.274        2.005        1.918     1.833         1.826       1.821
TOTALS            12.647       13.000       13.340       13.680      14.020    14.360         14.690      15.000
Source:  RENFE, Commercial Department
L!e
November 1970 



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD PRAIWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Investment Plan 1971-1975
Project Period: 1971-1973                        1974                                 1975                                            Total Plan:  1971-1975
Pts million                          Pts million                          Pts million                          Pts million                          U5$ million      - 
L           P           T           L            F           T            L           F           T            L           F            T           L            F           T
Track Tnfrastr,ot-re                     2,439.6       331.6     2,771.2        835.1        96.9       932.0        768.9       129.3       898.2      4,053.6       557.8      5,601.4        57.7          8.o        65.7         7.5
6,105 Km Track Renewal                  6,378.2      3,913.0    10,291.2      2,846.8     1,083.5     3,930.2      3,439.5     1,217.6     5,657.1    12,664.5      6,214.0    18,878.5        180.9         88.8       269.7        30.7
Equipment, new sidings                   1,059.4       223.7     1,283.1        443.9        54.6       598.5        456.5        15.0       471.5      1,959.7       293.3      2,253.0        28.0          4.2        32.2         3.7
Stations and Yards                       1,816.2        -        1,816.2        975.6        -          975.6        977.8        -           977.8     3,769.6         -        3,769.6        53.9           -         53.9         6.1
61 Diesel Locomotives and spares           584.2       813.8     1,398.0       134.0        180.0       314.o        279.0       352.0       621.0        997.2     1,335.8      2,333.0        14.2         19.1        33.3         3.b
42 Electric Locomotives                     53.3       375.0       428.3        260.o       1540.0      400.0        178.8        96.2       275.0        492.1       611.2      1,103.3          7.0         8.8        15.8         1.8
Air Brake Equipment                        295.5        98.4       393.9        178.0        59.3       237.3         75.0        25.0       100.0        548.5        182.7       731.2          7.8         2.6        10.4         1.2
52 Diesel Railoars and spares               77.3        77.3       154.6        351.9       223.1       575.0        195.8       124.2       320.0        625.0       424.6      1,049.6          8.9         6.i        15.0         1.7
30 Electric M.U. and spares                629.2       882.6     1,511.8       259.o         91.0       350.0         -           -            -          888.2       973.6      1,861.8        12.7         13.9        26.6         3.0
57 Sleeping Cars                           380.8        58.2       429.0         _-                             -                 -                       380.8        48.2        429.0          5.4         0.7         6.1         0-7
115 Baggage Cars                             3.9       550.0       553.9         -           -                        94.0        51.8       135,Ou        97.9       491.0        558.9         1.4          7.0         8.4         1.0
68 Talgo CoaEhes                           153.8        38.5       192.2         51.2        12.8        64.o         -           -            -          205.0        51.2        256.2          3.0         0.7         3.7         o.5
1,713 Freight Cars                         545.9       788.4     1,334.4         59.1        40.6        99.7         38.7        25.8        64.5        653.7        854.8     1,498.5          9.2        12.2        21.4         2.5
Misc. Freight Car Parts                    191.4        82.1       273.5         53.9        23.1         77.0        67.9        29.1         97.0       313.2        134.3       447.5          4.5         1.9         6.4         0.7
4,137 Containers                             4.0       101.0       105.0         70.2        70.1       140.3         42.8        42.9         85.7       117.0        214.0       331.0          1.7         3.0         4.7         o.6
Workshops                                1,295.9        -        1,295.9        330.7        -           330.7       222.8         -          222.8     1,249.4         -        1,849.4         26.4         -          26.4         3.0
Telecomr.unioations                        462.8       267.6       730.4        269.8        86.7       356.5        296.7        76.8        373.5     1,029.3       431.1      1,460.4        15.7          6.2        20.9         2.4
Signalling                               1,767.1       366.6     2,133.7        755.6       127.3        882.9       9o8.6        94.5      1,003.1     3,431.3        588.4     5,019.7         49.0         8.4        57.4         6.5
Elsotrification                          1,747.8       362.8     2,110.6        498.9       130.1        629.0       534.7       149.4        684.1     2,781.4        642.3     3,423.7         39.7         9.2        48.9         5.6
Social                                   1,003.3        -        1,003.3        295.5        -           295.5       290.0        -           290.0     1,588.8         -        1,588.8         22.7          -         22.7         2.6
Stores                                     -63.8        -           -63.8       250.0        -          250.0        250.0        -           250.0       436.2         -          436.2          6.2          -          6.2         0.7
Investment Studies                         671.5        -          671.5        255.1        -          255.1        259.3        -           259.3     1,185.9         -        1,185.9        17.0           -         17.0         1.9
Personncl Reduction                      3,713.0        -        3,713.0      1,239.0        -        1,239.0         5.          -           975.0     5,927.0         -        5,927.0         84.7          -         84.7         9.6
Deferred Maintenance                       500.0        -          500.0        250.0        -           250.o       250.0        -           250.0     1,000.0         -        1,000.0         14.3          -          14.3        1.6
Large Scale Planning                         -          -            -          150.0        -          150.0        250.0        -           250.0       400.0         -          500.0          5.7          -           5.7        0.7
Consolting Services                          8.8        35.0        43.8         -           -            -           -           -            -            8.8         35.0        43.8          0.1         0.5          o.6        0.1
Total                            25,719.1      9,255.5    34,974.6    10,813.3      2,419.0    13,232.3   17,351.7       2,408.8    13,260.5    47,384.1    14,083.3    61,467.4          676.9       201.2       878.1       100.0
Price Contingencies                      1,055.4       318.4     1,373.8      1,051.6       205.6      1,247.2     1,463.9       265.o      1,788.9     3,560.9        789.0     5,349.9         50.9        11.3         62.2        7.0
Grand Total                      26,774.5      9,573.9    36,348.4    11,854.0      2,624.6    14,479.5    12,315.6      2,673.8    15,989.4    50,955.0    14,872.3    65,817.3          727.8       212.5        940.3      107.0
% Contingencies per year                               3.9                                  9.4                                 13.0                                   7.0
April 1971



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD_ RAILWAY PROJECT
The Pro,ject: Firt Three Years of the tire-Year Tocestoect Plan 1971-1975
1971                            1972                              1973                                        Total Pro,ject:  1971-1973
Pt. millies                     Pie  ili-on                       Pts emiliec                       Pt F_TL_TL a cillion                 li
P    T           I ~ ~~               ~      ~ F  T                     T          If          F          T           L        F          T         __
Track Dnfraetructure                      580.1       96.o       676.;       985.7    124.3     1llo0.       873.9      111.3    985.1       2,539.6      331.6     2,771.2      34.0       4.7       39.6        7.9
3,218 Km Track Renewal                  1,332.6   1,201.2    2,533.8       2,371.7  1,326.1,    3,698.1     2 ,673.9   1,385.4  4,059.3       6,378.2   3,913.0   10,291.2        91.1      55.9     147.0        29.4
Equipment, nev sidings                    177.9         -        177.9       436.3    112.7       549.o       445.2      111.0    556.2       1,059.4      223.7     1,283.1      15.1       3.2       18.3        3.7
Statioss and Yards                        589.1         -        589.1       693.7        -       693.7       533.4         -      533.4      1,816.2         -      i,8i6.a      25.9        -        25.9        5.2
32 Diesel Lneosotiess and spar-e          220.1      173.9       394.0      361.1    459.9        821.0         3.0      18o0.    183.0         584.2      813.8    1,398.0        8.4      11.6      20.0        4.o
15 Elsctric Loco..ti-es                    38.3         -         38.3       15.0        -         15.0         -        375.0    375.0          53.3      375.0       428.3       0.8       5.3       6.1        1.2
Air Brake Eqaipjeen                        10.3        3.4        13.7       111.3      37.0      148.3       173.9       58.o    231.9         295.5       98.4       393.9       4.2       1.4        5.6        1.1
Spares for diesal reilcars                 77.3       77.3       154.6         -         -           -           -          -         -          77.3       77.3       054.6       1.1       1.1        2.2       0.5
30 Electric M.U. sad spares               613.1      182.6       795.7       16.1    350.0        306.1          -       350.0    35o.o         629.2      882.6    1,511.8        9.0     12.6       21.6        4.3
57 Sleeping Oars                          272.6       35.5       308.1      108.2      12.7       120.9          -         -          -         380.8       48.2       429.0       5.4       0.?       6.1        1.2
90 Baggage COrs                             3.9         -          3.9         -      225.0       225.0          -       225.o    225.o           3.9     450.0        453.9       0.1      6.4        6.5        1.3
52 Talgo Coaches                           27.4        6.8        34.2       43.2      10.8        54.0        83.2       20.8    104.0         153.8       38.4       192.2       2.2       8.5        2.7       0.6
1,529 Freight Care                        484.9      336.o       820.9       61.o    240.3        301.3          -       212.1    212.1        545.9        788.4   1,334.3        7.8     11.3       19.1        3.8
Misc. Freight Car Parts                    90.5       38.8       129.3       57.9      24.8        02.7        43.0       18.5      61.5        191.4        82.1      273.5       2.7       1.2       3.9        0.8
1,312 COtain.ra                             4.0       12.0        16.0          -      46.4        46.4          -        42.6      42.6          4.o       101.8      1i5.o       0.1       1.4       1.5        0.3
Workahops                                 331.4         -        334.4      398.4  *-             398.4       563.1         -      563.1      1,295.9          -     1,295.9      18.5        -       18.5        3.7
Telecommuanioations                       106.3       37.5       143.8      209.9    142.4        352.3       146.6       87.7    234.3        462.8        267.6      730.4       6.6      3.8       10.4       2V1
Sigselling                                336.9       60.6       397.5      703.4    148.3        851.7       726.8      157.7    884.5       1,767.1       366.6   2,133.7       25.3      5.2       30.s        6.1
Elcotrificatice                           219.0       65.8       284.8      686.4    136.1        822.5       842.4      160.9  1,003.3       1,747.8       362.8    2,no.6       25.0      5.2       30.2        6.o
Social                                    338.7         -        338.7      339.4        -        339.4       325.2        ,_      325.2      1,003.3          -     1,003.3      14.3       -        14.3        2.9
Stores                                   -563 .8                -563.8       250.8       -        250.0       250.C         -      250.0        -63.8          -       -63.8     -8.9         -       -0.9       -0.2
Imestmert Studies                         199.7         -       199.7       237.3       -         237.3       234.5         -      234.5       671.5          -       671.5        9.6       -         9.6        1.9
Person-l Bed-ctien                       900.0         -       900.0    1,426.8        -       1,426.0    1,387.0          -    1,387.0      3,713.0         -     3,713.0       53.0       -        53.o       1o.6
Deferred Mainteranoe                         -          -           -       250.0        -        250.0       250.0         -      250.0       500.c          -        5oo.o       7.1       -         7.1        1.5
Caltialg Sercises                            1.8       7.0         8.8         3.5      14.0        17.5         3.5      14.o      17.5          8.5        35.o       43.8       0.1       0.5        0.6        0.1
Total                               6,395.1   2, 3Ir4      5,729.5     9,765.5   3,411.1   13,176.6    9,538.5   3,510.0  13,068.5    25,719.1        9,255.5   34,974.6    367.4    132.0       499.4      1O0
Price Contingencies                   146.4       46.9       193.3       302.6      93.8      396.4       606.4      177.7    784.1       1,055.4       318.4   1,373.8       15.1       4.6      19.7        3.9
Gr-nd Total                         6,541.5   2, 381.3    3,922.8   10,068.1  3,504.9   13,573.0   lo,164.9   3,687.7  13,852.6    26,774.5           9,573.9  36,348.4    382.5    136.6        519.1      103.9
, Coatiage-liso F,r year
2.2                              3.0                               6.1                                3.9                            3.9
April 1971



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PRDJECT
Items to be Financed 'oy the Proposed Loan
Pts million                                       US$ million
1971       1972       1973       Total            1971        1972       1p(3       cotal          ___a%
A. TRACK
Rails and Ties                         266.o    1,020.0    1,020.0    2,306.0             3.8        14.6       14.6        33.0           4o.5
Maintenance Equipment                             112.7      111.0       223.7                        1.6        1.6         3.2            3.9
B.  OTrIVE POwER
19 Diesel Locomotives                             201.0      489.0       690.0                        2.9        7.0         9.9           12.2
15 Electric Locomotives                           125.0      250.0       375.0                        1.8        3.6         5.h            6.6
Air Brake Equipment                                37.0       58.0        95.0                        o.5         o.8        1.3            1.6
C. ELECTRIC MULTIPLE UNITS
20 Units and 40 Trailers                          350.0      350.0       700.0                        5.0        5.0        10.0           12.3
D. ROLLING STOCK
405 Flat Cars                                     160.0      164.0       324.o                        2.3        2.3         4.6            5.6
50 Sliding-Roof Cars                              28.5       28.5        57.0                        o.4        o.4         o.8            1.0
20 Hopper Cars                                               19.6        19.6                                    0.3        0.3             o.4
90 Baggage Cars                                  225.0      225.0       450.0                        3.2        3.2         6.4            7.9
E. CONTAINERS
662 General Purpose                                28.0       05.0        53.0                        o.4         o.4        o.8             1.0
450 Cattle                            i>.          18.4       17.6        36.0                        0.3         0.2        0-5             o.6
F. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Copper Wire for Telephone                          14.0       13.0        27.0                        0.2         0.2        0.4             o.5
G. SIGNALLING
Centralized Traffic Control                        17.5       30.0        47.5                        0.3         o.4        0.7             0.9
Other Signalling                                   10.2       20.2        30.4                        0.1         0.3        0.4             o.5
H. ELECTRIFICATION
Overhead Wire                          65.8        82.0        84.6      232.4             0.9        1.1         1.2        3.2             3.9
I. CONSULTING SERVICES                      7.0        14.0       14.0        35.0             0.1        0.2         0.2        0.5             0.6
TOTAL                       338.8     2,443.3    2,919.5    5,701.6             4.8        34.9       41.7        81.4          100.0
Price Contingencies                    13.5       207.7       377.2      598.4             0.2        3.0         5.4        8.6            10.5
GRAND TOTAL                 352.3     2,651.0    3,296.7    6,300.0             5.0        37.9       47.1        90.0
Contingencies, per year (%)             4           8.5        12.9       10.5             4.0        8.5        12.9       10.5
April 1971



SPA IN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRO RAILWAY PROJECT
R[NFh Revenues. Expenses and Net Income
Actual
(Billions -ofPesetas) *
1960             1961              1962              1963              1964              1965              1966           196?(             1968              1969          1970
Operating Revenues
Passenger                                      3.05              3.24              3.63              4.10              4.89              5.83              6.64           6.98              7.09              7  8          8.34
Freight                                        5.70              5.73              5.91              6.05              6.94              7.59              7.17           7.75              7.80              7 82          8 lo
Mail                                           0.53              0.56              0.58              o.60              o.64              0.62              0.74           0.76              0.77              0.83          0.84
Miscellaneous                                  0.52              0.52              0.59              o.66              o.87              1.04              0.42           1.25              1.47              0.72          0.73
Canon de Coincidencia (Note 2)                  -                 -                 -                                   -                                  0.58            -                 _                0.88          1.01
Total Operating Ievenues                      l907                                10.70      I      171.1             13.39             1=                               13771             17M73             177872        17733
Operatir      e
Personnel                                      5.36              5,36              6.70              8.11              8.63              9.51              9.88          11.55             12.16             12.10         12.18
Power (Fuel and Electricity) (Note 3)          2.72              2.91              3.10              3.02              3.02              3.62              3,15           2.84              2.31              2.01          1.92
Materials, Supplies and Other                  3.13              2.92              3.05              3.10              3.29              3.08              3.43           4.39              5.33              4.77          4.93
Deferred Maintenance                            -                 -                 -                 -                0.1+2             0.55              0.55           0.55              0.55              0.55          0.55
Less Expenses Modernization Program             -                 -                 -                 -               (0.08)            (0.10)            (0.12)         (0.15)            (0.14)            (0.13)        (0.12'
Depreciation (Note 4)                           -                 -                 -                 -                1.57              1.70              1.95           2.24              2.39              2.61         2.87
Total Operating Expenses                      122               1i71 193                                              11773             1E73                             2                 22.0              27191        22.33
Net Operating Loss                                12773                                                    2              -3.1               73               3.29           178               7127              1(71(0
Interest                                          o.88              0.99              1.02              1.12              o.60              0.62              o.64           0.74              0.43              o.56         0.66
Net Deficit                                          2       2            T7 17                         3.295             1.01              79T 3                            747    3.79 57.90                   1      4      3
Operating Ratio                                     -                -                 -                 -                 126               122               121            128               132               123           116
Working Ratio                                      115               111               120               125               115               110               109            115               118               108          101
NOTES:  (1)  1970 data are actual but mnaudited.
(2)  Except for 1966, 1969 and 1970, Receipts from the Canon de Coincidencia
are ircluded in miscellaneous revenues.
(3)  Power expenses include gas-oil taxes.
(4)  Prior to 1966, the accounting system did not include property or
depreciation expense accounts.
*   Totals do not always equal sum of the factors because of rounding.
June 10, 1971



SPAIN
APP1AISAL OF TEIRD RAILWAY PROJIXT
Revey es. azoenses arxi Net Income
Actua. 1970, Estimated 1971-1976
(Billions of Pesetas)
ACTUAL                                      E  S  T  I M  A  T  B D
I   Operating Revenues                             .y 1972 IUi                                                             1974                1975              1976
Passenger                                   8.34           9.41              10.07              10.34              10.61               10.88              11.13
Freight                                     8.41           9.01               9.74              10.19              10.93               11.50              11.80
Mai 1                                       0.84           0.88               0.94               0.99               1.03                1.07               1.10
Various                                     0.73           1.14               1.09               0.91               0.93               0.95                0.99
CanOn de Cofiridencia                       1.01
Subtotal                                   19.33          20.4               21.84              22.43              23.50               24.40              25.02
Added-1972 Plan to Recover                   -              -                 0.43               0.82               0.86                0.90               0.98
Rising Ccsts N)TE 1
Total Operating Revermes                   19.33                             22.27              23.25              2                  25.30
pe   llE                                 12.18          14.91             '15.34              14.50              13.65              12.89               12.89
Srergy ars  Fuel                            1.92           1.92               1.88               1.86               1.89               1.91               1.94
Materials and Supplies                      4.93           5.53               5.78               5.70               5.64                5.62               5.60
Deferred Maintenance      NIITd 2           0.55           0.55                -                  -                  -                  -                   -
Less Expenses-Modernization                (0.12)         (0.21)             (0.26)             (0.25)             (0.25)              (0.26)             (0.30)
Program                      __
Subtotal-Working Expenses                  19.6           22.70              22.7               21.                20.93              20.16               20.13
Depreciation anx Amortization
Depreciation-Tangible Assets            2.64           3.51               3.61               3.86               4.02               4.22               4.41
Amortization-Intangible Assets          0.23           0.34               o.46               0.51               0.66               0.82                1.04
Total                                   2.87           3.85               4.07               4.37               4.68               5.04                5.45
Total Operating Expenses                   22.33          26.55              26.81              26.18              25.61              25.20               25.58
III   Net Operating Revenues (Loss)                 (3.00)         (6.11)             (4.54)             (2.93)             (1.25)               0.10               0.42
IV  Non-Operati% Receipts-                                         1.61               2.17               2.37               2.58                2.78               2.99
Canon de Coiridencia
V  Interest on Debt                                o.66           0.75               0.73               0-95               1.10                1.19               1.20
VI  Net Incone                                     (3.66)         (5.25)             (3.10)             (1.51)              0.23                1.69               2.21
Ratio s
Operatirg                                   116            130                120                113                105                 100                 98
Times Interest Earned                                       -                  -                   -                  1.2                 2.4                2.8
NOTZS 1. Represents increase in net operating revenues through higher revenues and/or lower operatixg expemnes. However, shown here as higher revenues
in order to facilitate calculation of operatirg ratios.
2. Deferred maintenance, inter alia, is capitalized after 1971.
June 10, 1971



D~~~~~~~                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              C-'   H    H                       - ClCCg)e e 
C-,~~~~~S  0       -   C  19 c   Ep   C)           CD                  o           H|  s  lEItIItIoEt|3F0 Rp|  H  I                                                                                               -
H                                             H   Ha    0P.s                            OCCg4g MO o  oo o            4g           Cg      S                          H>4             xo WU.ls                           19         o ggg 4H
od ol O ~~~~~~~~~~HC                                               w    C)           CD             C)                  ClD  C\CC,oHCD             Pa          P   'C ^IW  |         H|WeN O-  D HHHCC QD 
C) C    H I       P|i~O%                              -   a                                                           '-'                                 HNC         P    a      1|m    OCCII    CC~o~ if
alo                                                                                                                                                        0    q          oi2wo I  ; H O;  -    C)Z21|_Hl2i  laswHH|DC  PD
0 )  ' ' )  O ~     '                s1               1 ~                      ~r    2                                                     O ' 4  C9        : '   Fcevo-
wl 3 o S so W o oX M;P                                .             0    O o ) C                        C)  'C        C C      H   co  X C   )  o -    C ) C 8 ) )S ) ' -w C H - ' - C )( 0 
C)                                     o                                         C D -OI                               a   a HC   .0)1CWH    N maO              OoIwO          C  W    'CD <  H    



SPAI N
APPRAISAL OP TCuD RAILWAY PROJEGT
Rnlan2  Sheet SAta
Refleated 1971-1976
(Rilioas of Pesetas)
1971               1972              1973               1974              1975               1976
A.  Assets
rur    sets
Opeattag Gash                                               2.13               2.28              1.69               0.98              0.92               2.02
Is-essaeet Gash                                            0.76                1.11              1.09               1.1L              1.17              1.05
Reasritlss                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  0.05                              ____.0                               ____.0
Tota  Gash                                                  2.9349 2.17                                                                                  3 12
Acasisets ReaRivable Stats                                 0.02                0.02              0.02               0.02              0.02              0.02
A-couts Reosivabl  Other                                  1.36                1.26              1.18               1.19              1.20               1.22
Opesati r Stcs                                             4.07                3.88              3.70               3.62              3.37               3.22
I0'esteset Stores
Other Current Assets                                         -
Total  Currest Assats                                                 1                                                 7739  7.0 0  7.73
Non -Curret Reeteiables                                        0.22                0.21              0.20               0.18              0.17              o.16
Fixed Assets
Grass AVaTe Tngible Assets                               103.92              115.60            127.06             139.25            151.96            161.31
Less A-o-jsla.td Depedalti.s                              18.23               22.17             26.39              30.92             35. 81             41.o9
Net Tongible Fixed Asse.ts                                55.69               93.43            100.67             100. 33           Lib.15            120.27
Cress Talus Intangible Assets
spsenses Aseigend PL'                                   1.48                1.74              1.99               2.29              2.60              4.60
Cast sa Staff Redstiss                                  415.07                                5496               6.70              1 -A1 
Total Grass Vsu e Intaagibls Assets                      131J                                 7W                                  1. 2              13
Less Acasselated A-ortizati-o                           0.67                o.80              0.95               1.10                2               1.47
Net Intaneib3e Fixed Assets                             3                   0.01              63                 I2H
Net Fixed Assets is Use                                89.15               98.44            107.17             116.22            125.18            132.33
W-rk ir PMRo.res
T2tAL NtJEd- & A8A9.15                                                          39                107.17                                                 132.33
ef-erred Assets                                                0.40                0.30              0.30               0.30              0.30               0.30
Tatal Ass                                                     981                1071              110.40             123.70            132.38                37
B.   IabilitAeso
Currant Lisbilitisa
Aeoaunts Payable-Operations                                1.92                1.92              1.87               1.87              1.87               1.87
Aao-nte PW'b0a--Tsreo..nst                                 0.76                1.11              1.09               1.14              1.17               1.05
As-ed Wages -nd  aSt- 1e S-ty                               0.12               0.12              0.12               0.12              0.12               0.12
Atoned Dbt SerAite                                          0.01               0.01                -                 -                 -
Depesits end Various Crediters                              2S0
Tstal Current Ltabilities                                  3.
Ler-Term Debt
US Learn end Surofi                                         1.79               1.59               1.38              1.19              1.01               o.84
IBRDI Lans                                                 7.17                9.38              12.22             11.73             11.10              10.32
Other                                                       0.64               2.18               2.14                 2                                _6
___________________                             ~~~~~~~9.60       13.15              15.79
Total LerM-Ter- m bt                                             77
Tutal Liabilities                                             12.9                                  19.2          9                      21.18              20.81
C.  AssitY
Res6erves
RNosirg Construetios                                        0.07               0.07               0.07              0.07               0.07              0.07
Debt Redeesptite                                            1.57               2.23               2.95              3.78              4.74               5.99
Geseral----
Tstol Reserves                                                  1.64               2.30               3.02              374                                  7.75
Unsurn-d Sraplos (Reolustioa)1 12.89                                              12.9               12.89             12.89             12.89              12.89
Capital del Patritoti.                                        69.69               74.57              79.24             85.11             91.81              97.96
Written Off Assets - PDM                                      (13.20)            (13.20)            (13.20)           (i3.20)           (13.20)            (13.20)
Old B-sds - Asoased by Opverrnert                              14.lo              11l.16             14.16             14.36             34.16              14.16
Total SAity                                                    85.18              90.72              96.11            102.81            111.20             119.56
total Lidbilities anad CnitY                                   98.16             107.55             115.40            123.70            132.3d             1O.37
Juer 10, 1971



S P A I N
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Cash Flow Data
Actaal 1969 art 1970; datimeo .o971-1976
(Bi'llions of Pesetas)
ly69           1970           19______________'  5E S   T   I   M   A   T   E D                                           1 Ttal
ipO6p          1970           1971           17193                          1974.          19 75          1976            1971-1976 
A. Cash Required
Investment Program
Pleonnd for the year                               B.02           6.01           8.92          13.57           13.85          14.48          14.99           12.60             7d.41             82.7
Deferred Pymrnto - Prior
Years                                             o.16           0.94           1.63          (0.35)           0.02          (0.05)         (o.03)           0.12              1.34              1.4
Total Investment Program                            77            77            10.55          13.22          13.87 14                                                . 43 1 4 . 9 7  12.72  79.75
Less Stores Used for Inveotmeuts                    (0.16)         (0.37)         (0.25)                  --             --                     --              --                (0.25)           (0.3)
Debt Service
Intereot                                           o.56           o.66           0.75           0.73           0.95            l.10           1.19           1.20               5.y2              6.2
Repaymensts                                        0.27           0.27           O.50           o.66           0.72            0.83           0.96           1.25               4.92             5.2
Total Debt Service                                 77             0.93           1.25           1.39                           1.93           2.15                                              ills
Changes in Working Capital                          (0.74)          1.53           0.79          (0.35)          (0.16)         (0.04)         (0.20)          (0.14)            (0.10)            (0.1)
Liquidation, Bank of Spain Credit                     _              --            4.65                                   --              --                     --               4.65              4.9
Total Cash Required                                8.11          11.04          16.99          15.26           15.33          16.32          16.91          15.03              94.89           100.0
B. Cash Available
Net Operating Revecues (toss)                        (0)            (3.00)         (6.11)          (4.54)         (2.93)         (1.25)          0.10            0.42            (14.31)           (15.1)
CDnos de Coincidencia                                  --             --            1.61           2.17            2.37           2.58           2.78            2.99             14.50             15.3
Paymeets for early retirements                       (o.86)           --             --              --             --             --             --              --               --
Depreciation and Amortization                         2.61           2.87           3.85           5.07            5.37           4.68           5.05           5.55              27.56             29.0
Total Internally Generated (Lose)                  (7.33)         (0.13)         (775)           1.70          731                -            7.92           87                27.65            26.2
Punds ProvIded by Osoroul
Paysents for prior years                            2.27            __            9.25             _-             __--                          -- _                             9.25              9.7
Deficit including depreciation                      1.70           1.54           4.50            2.38           0.56            --             --              --               7.44              7.8
Unearned Interest                                   0.23           0.23             .75           0.73           0.95            __             __              __               2.43              2.6
Unearned Repayments                                 0.29           0.26             .50          o.66            0.72           0.6C            --              __               2.48              2.6
New Investmnets                                     4.75           4.89           3.46           5.08            5.22           5.02           6.39           6.15              32.32            34.1
Total Provided by Governmeet                        6.2             7178                         57             7.467           77             6e1              7l              53.92             7
Lon  I
IBRD Loan II and III                                1.29           0.61           1.37           2.65            3.30            --            -_               __               7.32              7.7
Eorofima (actual)                                   0.36           0.09            --              --             _-             __            __--                               --
Bank of Spain                                        --            2.30            --              --             --             --            -_               _      
Other (Future)                                                                    0.36           1.56            0.01           2.43          1.27            1.00               6.63              7.0
Total Loans                                        577             3.20                              1.73  53.1  2.3                                                                                 7 13.65  7
Sale of Land:                                         0.01           2.01            __              __            0.20           0.60          1.30              --               2.10             2.2
Cash at BesitM   of Year
Cash -  Oting(1.07)                                               1.52           1.55           2.13            2.28           1.69          0.98            0.92                --
Investment Plan                             2.13            --           (1.21)           0.76           1.11           1.09          1.14             1.17                __
Temporary laveste                           0.05            5            2.05           o.5           ocS            0.05          0.05             0.05                --
Total Cash Beginning of Year                1.1              .70.39                       2       74      75            2757           2.17            7773                --
Total Cash Available                                  77            11.43          19.93          1.0             121             17.79        19.20            18.15             97.62            102 .9
Cash at &Bn of Year
Operating                                   1.52           1.55            2.13           2.28           1.69           0.98          0.92             2.02
Investment Plan                              --           (1.21)          0.76            1.11           1.09           1.14          1.17             1.05
Temporary ITvesmero.ts                      0.05           0.05            0.05           0.05           O.05           0.05          0.05             0.05
Total                           v         i                0.39           2.95            37;5           575            2.11          27               3.12
Change in Cash During the Period                                                                                                                                                   2.73             -2.9
June 10, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1964 and 1967 Plans of Action
and
RENFE Performance Record
I.   Transport Coordination
A.   1964 Plan of Action
1.   Review of the tax on highway passenger services paralleling
the railway (Canon de Coincidencia), by the middle of 1966.
2.   Study and revision of fuel prices in line with a policy of
ensuring neutrality among the various modes of transport,
to be completed by the middle of 1966.
3.   More effective regulation and policing of highway transport,
including:
(a) Establishment of minimum entry conditions for
highway transport primarily to assure adequate
financial responsibility, early in 1965;
(b) Establishment of more effective weight and size
limitations, early in 1965;
(c) Placing into effect during 1965 of a better system
of inspection to assure the sound mechanical con-
dition of vehicles;
(d) Requirement of written contracts for all highway
freight services in a prescribed form, early in
1965;
(e) More extensive regulation of freight forwarders,
such as assuring adequate performance bonds, early
in 1965;
(f) Regulation of adequacy of services which claim to
be operated on regular schedules and at fixed rates,
early in 1965;
(g)  Assurances that highway transport meets minimum
labor conditions, such as maximum working hours
and social security payments, early in 1965;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(h) Establishment of minimum insurance requirements,
early in 1965;
(i) Establishment of a uniform accounting system for
highway transport enterprises, by the middle of
1965; and
(j) Study of rates and tax policy (fiscalidad) applic-
able to all modes of transportation, to be com-
pleted by the middle of 1966.
B.   1967 Plan of Action
1.   To achieve greater neutrality in fiscal and other Govern-
ment policies with respect to their impact on rates and fares of the var-
ious transport modes, study, under terms of reference prepared in consulta-
tion with the Bank, and prescribe, in the context of the economy as a whole,
appropriate measures for immediate action on the following matters:
(a) Road-user charges and their relation to highway cost,
by Spring 1968;
(b) Fuel prices and their relation to fuel costs, by
Spring 1968;
(c) Rate and fare policy for all modes of transportation
and their relation to the cost of providing transport
services, by Summer 1968;
(d) Taxation of transport services (after road-user charges
have been taken into account), covering all taxes, in-
cluding the gas oil tax and the tax on highway passenger
services (Canon de Coincidencia), by Summer 1968;
(e) Prices paid by different modes of transport for equip-
ment purchased in Spain as compared with international
prices, with a view to determine if any one mode of
transport is bearing an inequitable burden, by end 1968.
2.   To achieve more effective transport coordination through the
application of uniform investment policies, study, under terms of reference
prepared in consultation with the Bank, and prescribe appropriate action on
the following:
(a) Establishment of criteria for investment in transport,
by Spring 1968;
(b) Cost of investment in, and operation of, level crossings
as shared by rail and road, by Spring 1968; and



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c)  Need for pipeline regulation, including adequate user
charges, by mid-1968.
3.   Improvement of traffic forecasts and investment planning:
(a) Compiling of basic road transport statistics for
intercity freight traffic, e.g., by size of enter-
prise, volume of traffic, commodity, distance, type
of vehicle, origin and destination, by late 1967;
(b) Study of transport market performance to evaluate
why shippers select a particular transport mode, by
Spring 1968;
(c) Study of freight traffic flows by mode of transport,
by major routes and by commodities for a selected
base year, by end 1968; and
(d) Study of combined highway-railway-port facilities,
such as use of containers, pallets, cranes, railroad
trailers, piggy-back operations, by Spring 1968.
4.   To achieve more effective regulation and policing of highway
transport, take the following actions during 1967:
(a) Implenment regulations dealing with minimum conditions
for erLgaging in highway transport;
(b) Enforce weight and size regulations more effectively;
(c) Ensure sound mechanical conditions of vehicles and
implement a system of inspection; and
(d) Estab]Lish a uniform accounting system for large
transport enterprises.
C.   Performance
1964 Plan of Action
With regard to the studies contemplated under items 1, 2 and 3(j)
above, their execution was delayed because of the change of government in
1965. These studies were therefore incorporated in the 1967 Plan of Action
(see review of performance below).
Concerning points 3(b), 3(c) and 3(i), progress was slow and they
were incorporated in the 1967 Plan of Action.
3(a). An important first step was a Decree on the Planning of
Overland Transport issued in February 1966. It defined minimum character,
competence and financial qualifications for truckers operating on a national



ANNEX 1
Page 4
or regional basis. In May, 1966, implementing regulations were issued to
supplement the Decree. The regulations recognize "grandfather rights" of
the existing truck operators and affect, therefore, only new operators and
the expansion of existing operators. The decree and its implementation are
satisfactory.
3(d). A contract format has been prescribed for all operators
dealing with more than one customer and operating on a national basis. The
Government believes that for the time being it would be impossible to en-
force the agreements between shippers and the thousands of small regional
truckers, who usually own only one vehicle, and who account for 80-90% of
the total vehicle fleet. In the longer run, the Government hopes to en-
courage their consolidation into associations which would make it possible
to oversee their operations more effectively.
3(e). Regulations have been issued requiring freight forwarders
t-e hxve adequate performance bonds.  The Government believes that the exist-
ing numerous private freight forwarding agencies who solicit traffic for
truckers should undertake the responsibility of implementing regulations for
trucking operations, such as overseeing the regularity of service, adequacy
of performance bonds, etc. The Ministry of Public Works is now studying the
activities of these agencies with a view to giving them these additional
responsibilities.
3(f). Adequate regulations have been issued governing the regu-
larity of trucking services.
3(g). The Government's study has shown that the labor conditions
of the larger operators are adequate and do not require special regulation,
while the effective regulation of thousands of small owner-operators is not
possible.
3(h). Adequate requirements have been established.
1967 Plan of Action
1(a). The study was completed. The evidence is that road users
as a group cover all road costs on both a cash outlay and economic basis,
and that over-taxation exists for every category of vehicles.
1(b). This study showed cost and prices for all fuels. This was
basic information used in studies 1(a) and 1(d).
1(c). It was agreed that this study would not include aviation
and maritime activities. It was also agreed that since RENFE was under-
taking a major investigation into its rate and fare tariff structure with
the help of consultants (SOFRERAIL), the study would be confined to "Pric-
ing of Trucking Services"; it was completed early in 1969. The study ex-
amines the different alternatives, i.e., free rates, fork rates and fixed
regulated rates, and reviews practices and experiences in Spain and coun-



ANNEX 1
Page 5
tries of the European Common Market (ECM). In Spain, 86% of the industry is
formed by individual operators owning one vehicle; in the rest of the ECM
the range of individual ownership is between 48.5% (Holland) to 67% (France).
The small enterprise seems to be the result of the non-existence of econo-
mies of scale in the trucking industry where fixed costs are a small part of
the total cost. Without restrictions of entry the industry represents a
typical example of the competitive model; prices are closely related to
costs, and consumers benefit from technological improvements through lower
prices.
The study reviews the situation in France where fork rates pre-
vail; these are a mix of regulated and competitive rates. The usual argu-
ment for fork rates is that the minimum limit for the rates helps to co-
ordinate rail and road services and the upper limit gives room for compe-
tition in the trucking sector. The French system is very complicated and
difficult to administer. Large computations are involved in each case to
arrive at the minimum rate. But, according to the study, a main setback
has been the application of political criteria to rate regulation. The
Government has paid little attention to the arguments of the industry. On
the other hand, the truckers did not make use of the upper margin to in-
crease their prices, because internal competition made that rise imprac-
tical. Another prob]Lem, caused by the atomization of the market, is the
limited possibility for an effective control of the application of the
official posted rates. In Germany there is a system of fixed regulated
rates for intercity freight trucking which is now evolving to a fork rate
system. In general, trucking rates have been established equal to railway
rates, again as an intent of transport "coordination". The difficulties
experienced by the Deutsche Bundesbahn have not been eased by such policy.
1(d). This study has been completed in two volumes. The first
volume contains a detailed description of all taxes being borne by road
and rail transport, and the amounts collected from 1960 to 1966. In the
second volume, the taxes collected from road users in 1965 were allocated
to the various groups of vehicles using interurban roads only. The study
shows no unfair fiscal treatment to the railways vis-a-vis road transport.
1(e). This study was completed by the Ministry of Industry. It
shows that, for example, RENFE pays more for Spanish assembled diesel loco-
motives than for imported locomotives, but that this industrial protection
does not put RENFE at a disadvantage vis-a-vis road competition since
trucks manufactured in Spain are proportionally much more expensive than
comparable trucks that could be imported from other European countries.
European manufacturers have a substantial financial interest in the main
Spanish truck manufacturing companies.
2(a). The study was completed and is satisfactory. Two sub-
studies of Study 2(a,) to devise rules for (i) highway and (ii) railway in-
vestments were suggested by the Consejo and agreed to by the Bank, although
they were not a part of the legal commitments of the Revised Plan of Action.
They translated into more specific guidelines the general criteria of Study
2(a).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
2(b).  This study has been finished.  The study distinguishes four
;categories in the conflict of interest between rail and road for level crosa-
iWg,   In the course of this study a review was made of the criteria in
Spain and ECM countries for determining (a) who causes the expenditure; (b)
who benefits from the expenditure; and (c) the validity of any historical
claims based on who was first in place, who desired to cross whom, etc.
Application of the resulting criteria produced the following conclusions:
Case (1)  Expenditures on operation and maintenance of
existing level crossings should be borne entirely
by the railway, since it gets free passage at the
crossings.
Case (2)  Technical improvements in existing level crossing
expenditures to be shared by both modes according
to the benefits each derives from the improvements.
Case (3)  Conversion of level crossings into overpasses.  The
railway benefits are the elimination of operating
expenditures; the road traffic benefits by getting
free way. Both modes should share the investment
cost accordingly.
Case (4)  Construction of new level crossings or overpasses.
New level crossings; same as case (1), investment
to be borne by the railway; New overpasses: the
mode which causes the investment should bear its
full cost.
2(c). This study points out the insignificant role played by com-
mercial pipelines in Spain, with only a 267-km commercial pipeline between
Malaga and Puerto Llano, in the south, in operation. Another pipeline be-
tween Rota and Zaragoza of 776 km operates exclusively between a refinery
and the Spanish-American military bases. A law was drafted by the CSTT in
1967 to regulate the construction and operation of private and commercial
pipelines. The Ministry of Industry has objected to the jurisdiction that
the proposed law gives to the Ministry of Public Works over pipelines;
Government has not yet submitted the legislation to the CQrtes.
3(a). This requirement has been carried out.
3(b). This study has been carried out by a local consultant and
consisted of three surveys: (a) Users Market, with a sample of 300 users;
(b) Road Transport Supply, with a sample of 800 truckers, and (c) Inter-
mediaries, with a sample of 150 agencies.
3(c). A field survey by the National Institute of Statistics was
carried out during 1969 on a sample of about 45,000 trucks, covering the
whole country. Each vehicle was under scrutiny one week per month, during



ANNEX 1
Page 7
three months, for information about traffic carried, origin and destination,
and type of cargo. The results of the survey are being used by RENFE to
assess potential markets for regular railway container services.
3(d). The study of combined highway-railway-port facilities such
as use of containers, pallets, cranes, etc., is completed and it has been
used extensively by RENFE to implement container services.
4(a). Minimum entry conditions for highway transport introduced
in February and May 1966 were satisfactory and are being observed.
4(b). Scales to enforce vehicle weight regulations were set up
at the borders of Spain, and orders have also been placed for scales for the
interior. Plans call for at least two portable scales in each of the 50
provinces but implementation has been slow. Enforcement of vehicle weight
and size limitations was made the responsibility of the police.
4(c). A plan for the systematic inspection of vehicles has been
developed and is being gradually implemented. Land for installing vehicle
inspection stations was acquired at various locations and tenders have been
asked for station machinery and equipment. Overall implementation has not
been satisfactory.
4(d). A study of a uniform accounting system for larger trucking
enterprises has been completed and distributed by Government to the private
operators. Accounting procedures of trucking enterprises, however, are regu-
lated by the general laws of the country concerning commercial accounting
and adoption of the special system of accounts is optional.
II. Operations
A.   1964 Plan of Action
1.   Reduction in labor force from January 1, 1963 by about
21,000 permanent and 2,500 temporary workers, by the
end of 1968; and by an additional 11,000 permanent and
2,000 temporary workers by the end of 1973.
2.   Improved recruitment and training of personnel.
3.   Consolidation of existing marshalling yards and con-
struction of six new ones, phasing out and replacement
of old repair shops for steam locomotives by a smaller
number of modern repair shops, and discontinuance of
service at uneconomic stations.
4.   Modernization of pickup and delivery of less-than-
carload traffic by the establishment of central sta-
tions, to and from which parcels will be delivered by
trucks.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
5.   Improved safety by stricter regulation and supervision.
6.   Reduction of three passenger classes to two by 1968.
B.   1967 Plan of Action
1.   Progressively achieve a net reduction of RENFE's
labor force of about 9,000 permanent and 2,000 tempo-
rary workers between the end of 1966 and the end of
1968; a further net reduction of about 9,000 by the
end of 1970, and an additional net reduction of at
least 9,000 by the end of 1973.
2.   Restudy RENFE's personnel needs by mid-1969.  If the
study indicates the desirability of further reductions,
the Government to enable RENFE to make them.
C.   Performance
1.  Labor force has been reduced more than forecast in
the two Plans. Personnel needs have been restudied
and further reductions will be made during the next
years. The Government has not prevented RENFE from
making these reductions. Recruitment and training
have been satisfactory.
2.   Modernization of marshalling yards is in progress.
The new yard of Vicalvaro, near Madrid, is expected
to be completed by the end of 1971. The number of
repair shops has decreased, and many uneconomic sta-
tions have either been closed or converted to reduced
operations.
3.   Pickup and delivery of less-than-carload traffic has
been modernized (Operacion Detalle) and is now satis-
factory.
4.   Safety has improved significantly:  2,500 accidents
occurred in 1964, with 84 deaths and 437 injured
against 130 in 1969, with 35 deaths and 38 injured.
5.   The third class has been eliminated, leaving two
classes for normal passenger trains. Additional
fares are charged on special fast trains, such as
TER and TALGO.
III. Rates and Fares
A.   1964 Plan of Action
1.   Revision of rate and fare structure to relate it more
closely to transport costs.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
2.   Establishment of a costing office and a costing system.
3.   Increase of less-than-carload rates in stages until
1969 by a total of 20%.
4.   Application of normal commercial rates to the Guarantor's
traffic and mail.
5.   Increase of rates and fares by 1.5% per annum, beginning
in 1965, reflecting improvement in services.
6.   Adjustments in fares leading to an increase of passenger
revenues by about 12% as part of inauguration of two-
class system.
7.   Increase of passenger fares by 6.5% in 1970, and by 10%
in 1973.
8.   Compensation by the Guarantor to the Borrower for loss
of revenue on passenger services provided by the Borrower
at less than normal commercial rates established by the
Guarantor.
B.   Performance
1 and 2.  Concerning items 1 and 2 above, a costing section has
been established in RENFE's Management Control Department.
Much of its work has been concerned with (a) annual over-
age costs of freight and passenger services; (b) cost
analysis in connection with uneconomic branch lines and
passeniger trains; (c) specific costs of individual com-
modity movements related to shipper contracts. The
tariffs were reorganized in 1968 but costs of both pas-
senger and fare service, on an average, fully distributed
basis, far exceed rates and fares.
3.   This has been accomplished.
4.   This requirement has been carried out.
5.   This has been accomplished.
6.   The objective of 12% was attained by late 1968.
7.   Passenger fares were increased by 11% in 1970.
8.   There has been no need for such compensation.  Normal
commercial rates have been applied.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
IV. Finances
A.   1964 Plan of Action
1.   Incorporation, free of any lien, of the Government's
contributions (dotaciones) to the Borrower made up to
date of the Loan Agreement into the equity (patrimonio)
of the Borrower.
2.   All funds to be made available for capital expenditures
after the date of the Loan Agreement by the Guarantor to
the Borrower to be made in the form of an equity contri-
bution (aportacion patrimonial).
3.   Settlement of mutual debts between the Borrower and the
Guarantor up to December 31, 1964 and incorporation, free
of any lien, of the debt balance, if any, in favor of the
Guarantor into an equity contribution (aportacion patri-
monial) of the Guarantor to the Borrower's capital.
4.   Revaluation, from time to time, of Borrower's assets to
reflect realistic and economic values.
5.   Establishment of a modern commercial, and, to the extent
practicable, mechanized, accounting system, to reflect
the operations and financial position of the Borrower
accurately and to provide the Borrower's management with
adequate financial information.
B.   1967 Plan of Action
1.   The Government to take compensating measures to off-
set any loss to RENFE if its revenues were reduced by
reason of a change in the Canon de Coincidencia.
2.   The Government to make quarterly payments in advance
to RENFE, as approved semi-annually in the initial
and revised budget for each year, for deficit, debt
service and capital investments. Amounts budgeted
for transportation and other services to the Govern-
ment to be paid to RENFE in advance every two months,
subject to adjustment in subsequent two-month periods.
C.   Performance
1.   Items Al, 2 and 3 were accomplished by 1967.
2.   Assets were revalued as of December 31, 1968 and the
revised data are included in the 1970 balance sheet.
Initial valuation of land is nearing completion.



ANNEX 1
Page l1
3.   RENFE installed a new commercial accounting system for
1965. Electronic computers are used. Difficulties
were encountered primarily because of the simultaneous
introduction of new procedures and mechanized methods.
Progress was therefore initially slow. The accounting
system is being improved continually. At present the
system is adequate but such improvements are under way
as restatement of experiences on a functional basis,
reorgarnization of revenues to conform thereto, separation
of operating and non-operating revenues expenses, fixed
assets and accumulated depreciation, inclusion of land
on property accounts and definition of extraordinary
expenses which presumably would be for the account of
Government.
April 9, 1971






ViceessFOffic
Aceinistrative Council                                             asd
President                                               Broadcasting
r   1                                       . |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secr-etary
A-tn,os.-                                                      of the Council
Organization              |General Manager                    L
of Workshops
Secretary General.
r                     t ~~~~~~General Co-di-rectuorl
Director           Director          Director of           Zoning        Conmercial          Social           Director          Inspector
of Planning        o Finances        Exploitation        Director         Director         Director        of Purchases          General
Subdirectr         Subdi.rector       Sbdirecto  [Subdirect,orl                   3 lbdir   S    rectorl   LSbdire                    rectoir
0 - -1~~~~~~~~~
* Coordtn~ tion with '   concerning railway construction by '.YW 
-  >z
1a






ANNEX 3
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Uneconomic Lines
RENFE will complete studies on the following lines:
(a) by no, later than December 31, 1972:
Line                                                Length in km
1.  Villanueva de la Serena-Logrosan                     55
2.  Zuera-Turunana                                       39
3.  Alguazas-Murcia                                      18
4.  Guadajoz-Carmona                                     14
5.  Los Prados-Cerros del Hierro                          9
6.  Almorchon-Cordoba                                   135
7.  Utiel-Liria                                          29
8.  La Trinidad-Moron                                    21
9.  Quintanilla-Barruelo                                 13
10.  Madrid-Ciudad Real                                  168
11.  Gibraleon-Ayamonte                                   50
12.  Albatera-Torrevieja                                  26
13.  Selgua-Barbastro                                     19
14.  Cinco Casas-Tomelloso                                19
15.  Zafra-Jerez de los Caballeros                        27
16.  Tudela-Tarazona                                      22
17.  T. de los Vados-V. del Bierzo                         9
18.  Villacanas-Quintanar                                 25
19.  Vadolltno-Linares                                     9
20.  Almendricos-Aguila                                   31
21.  Burgos-Ciudad                                       115
22.  Lerida--Pobla de Segur                               90
23.  Pto. S. Maria-Sanlucar                               37
24.  Zafra-Huelva                                        179
25.  Calatayud-Caminreal                                  68
26.  Jativa--Alcoy                                        64
27.  Ripoll-La Tour                                       52
28.  Huesca-Jaca-Canfranc                                135
29.  Reus-San Vicente                                     39
30.  Alcantarilla-Baza                                   190



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Uneconomic Lines (continued)
Line                                            Length in km
31.  Baza-Guadix                                      52
32.  San Vicente-Bif. Bordeta                         73
33.  Sevilla-San Francisco                            16
34.  Las Franquesas-Granollers                         3
35.  Guillarey-Tuy                                     6
36.  Roda-Plana-Picamoixons                           29
37.  Ariza-Valladolid                                254
38.  Salamanca-Astorga                               185
39.  Utrera-Roda                                     110
40.  Moncada-San Juan                                110
41.  Granada-Bobadilla                               123
42.  Palazuelo-Salamanca                             163
43.  Merida-Zafra-Los Rosales                        205
44.  F. de S. Esteban-La Fregeneda                    79
45.  Puebla de Hijar-Tortosa                         129
TOTAL   3_2244
(b) by not later than December 31, 1974:
Line                                            Length in km
46.  Espeluy-Jaen                                     33
47.  Torralba-Soria-Castejon                         198
48.  Betanzos-Ferrol                                  43
49.  Redondela-Santiago-Coruna                       167
50.  Arrollo-Valencia de A.                           72
51.  Salamanca-Fuentes de Onoro                      125
52.  Alquerias-Alicante                               65
53.  Tardienta-Huesca                                 22
54.  Castillejo-Toledo                                26
55.  Arroyo-M. Bif. Minas                             14
TOTAL     765
June 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Consultants' Recommendations Concerning
RENFE's Freight Marketing Organization
1.        There should be a concentration of effort on improving and refining
data used by the costing service from all sources, including that fed in by
commercial and movements functions, before any further sophistication of
methods is developed.
2.        Greater use should be made of costing alternative methods of work-
ing and use of future costs for price fixing purposes in long-term traffic
agreements.
3.        RENFE should continue to press for freedom to base prices on
market and cost with no imposed maximum price limitation, accompanied by
freedom to negotiate private, preferential and contractual price agreements.
4.        Prices should be directed toward encouraging planned methods of
traffic working most favorable to RENFE.
5.        A formal pricing policy document is considered desirable to
crystalize management purpose and to direct commercial staff at H.Q. and
Zones.
6.        There should be an analysis of money value of customers to assist
in allocating selling responsibility between H.Q. and Zones in line with
delegation of limitecl pricing authority.
7.        There shou:Ld he a staged delegation of limited pricing authority
to Zone Managers.
8.        Customer sales budgets for H.Q. and Zone customers should be
introduced on a money basis together with specific sales direction to Zones.
9.        Pricing policy, tariffs, studies and recommendations should be the
responsibility of the sales function.
10.       Procedures for processing market information should be revised and
greater use made of computer facilities which are already available.
11.       RENFE would benefit by changing from a monthly to a four-weekly
basis for internal data.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
12.       Deeper market research is needed.  RENFE does not yet possess the
expertise, and help from outside specialists would be desirable.
13.       Under the Commercial Director a division of passenger and freight
activities is considered necessary to achieve the required specialist
management of two separate businesses.
14.       There should be a restructuring of the Sales and Market Research
sections to obtain a more effective and logical allocation of responsibili-
ties.
15.       A commercial planning unit is needed to undertake the commercial
contribution for an improved product, including a comprehensive study of
freigiht terminal rationalization.
16.       The staffing of the commercial planning unit should include
movements department personnel.
17.       To obtain a proper succession and movement of trained commercial
staff between Zones and H.Q. RENFE should develop its existing manpower
resources without further exterior recruitment at this time.
18.       A program of training and education in railway movements practices
and in specialist sales and marketing skills is thought necessary for
existing marketing officers at H.Q. and Zones. Assistance from outside
RENFE would be necessary in devising and carrying through this program.
March 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
Track Rehabilitation
1.        Three types of track rehabilitation are planned during the
project period: renewal with 54 kg/m new rails (1,837 km), renewal with
second-hand 45 kg/m rails (802 km) and ballast renewal (579 km) (Map 1).
The first two are plarned in sections withi the heaviest present and future
traffic. A few sections with less traffic, but where the track condition
is poor, will also be renewed for safety reasons. Ballast will be replaced
on sections where rails and ties are in fair condition but where the ballast
stones are too big to permit low-cost mechanical maintenance. With the
present large-size baLlast, tamping, levelling and lining machines cannot
be economically used and these operations have to be performed manually.
Map 2 gives a view of the work involved and also shows the sections re-
habilitated recently.  It indicates that, at the end of the Project period,
the most important trunk lines would be in good condition, permitting
increased speed and safety and thlus a more efficient and profitable
operation of the railway. The proposed loan would provide US$36.2 million
for rails, steel units for concrete ties and track maintenance equipment.
This would be the largest item in the loan (44.4% of the total).
Diesel Locomotives
2.        The present fleet of 355 main line locomotives (Table 2) includes
10 units of only 725 HP, whiclh will be converted into shunters and used in
the new marshalling yard of Vicalvaro near Madrid. The 19 locomotives to be
procured during the P'roject period will replace these units for main line use
and allow for a moderate increase in total available motive power, in line
witlh the traffic forecasts and with the complete elimination of steam in 1972.
The new 4,000-HP locomotives will be used mainly for high-speed passenger
traffic.
Electric Locomotives
3.        Out of the existing stock of 388 locomotives, 55 are 43 years
old and should be scrapped.  Most of them, however, would be replaced
by electric multiple units cheaper to operate than regular trains for
passenger traffic. Only 15 new locomotives are needed up to 1973 and
would be financed by tthe proposed loan at an estimated cost of US$5.4
million (6.6% of the total amount). The present use of electric locomotives
in the Barcelona area is poor, due to the limited mileage of electrified
track, and no additional locomotives will be needed in this region wlhen thie
electrified section Is extended to Valencia.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Air Brake Equipment
4.        About US$1.3 million (1.6% of the proposed loan) would be used
to finance the changing of the brake system from vacuum to pneumatic on
293 electric locomotives, 345 diesel locomotives and about 1,600 passenger
coaclhes. This would improve the braking efficiency of the rolling stock
and allow longer trains to be operated at higher speeds. Pneumatic brakes
will also be installed on freight cars after 1975.
Electric Multiple Units
5.        As mentioned above, many passenger trains will be replaced by
railcars and electric units. The proposed loan would finance 20 units,
eachi witih two trailers, at a total estimated cost of US$10 million (12.3% of
the total). The remaining 20 units to be procured during the project period
are already contracted and expected to be delivered in late 1971.
xouliing Stock and Containers
6.        To replace 9,177 over-aged freight cars to be scrapped between 1971
and 1973, procurement of only 1,529 new freight cars is planned during the
same period. This is the continuation of the modernization of the fleet ac-
cording to a plan started in 1964 and by which at the end of 1976 about 25,000
over-aged freight cars would have been scrapped. The new cars are of the
bogie type, replacing obsolete four-wheelers. Out of these, 910 are already
ordered, of which 860 are financed by Loan 507-SP and most of them are ex-
pected to be delivered in 1971. The proposed loan would finance the procure-
ment of 405 flat cars, mainly for container traffic, 50 sliding-roof box cars
for steel rolls, and 20 hopper cars for cereals. It would also finance 90
baggage cars to replace over-aged wooden vehicles. Total cost of rolling
stock to be financed by the proposed loan is estimated at US$18.1 million
(14.9% of the total). About US$1.3 million (1.6% of the total)would finance
the procurement of 1,112 containers.
Telecommunications and Signalling
7.        About US$1.5 million or 1.9% of the proposed loan would be used for
renewa2 of telephione lines and improvements of signalling such as at level
crossings, stations, manual and automatic block systems and centralized traf-
fic control. All investments contemplated within the roject period are on
lines which are certain to be kept In service. Investments on more doubtful
sections have been shifted beyond 1973, pending review of their economic
feasibility.
Electrification
8.        Work has started on the Valencia-Tarragona line, expected to be
completed in 1974, and will start in 1972 on the Madrid-Guadalajara line,
expected to be completed by the end of 1973. Out of the US$5.2 million for-
eign exchange required, about 4.0% of the proposed loan would finance the
procurement of overhead wire, at an estimated cost of about US$3.2 million.
June 15, 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores (IGGI)
(Previously Tarifa Fiscal)
1.        The legal basis for the Tarifa Fiscal is given in the Decree
2169/1964 which was signed by the Chief of State on July 9, 1964 and
published in the Boletin Oficial del Estado on July 25. The following
Articles of the Decree make it clear that the Tarifa Fiscal is normally
levied oln all imports into Spain.
Article 1. The Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores,
established by Art. 210 of the tax reform law of June 11, 1964 in place of
the Tarifa Fiscal on imports, will be levied in accordance with the require-
ments stated in this present Decree, without prejudice to the luxury tax
on imports which will continue to be levied in accordance with the approp-
riate legislation.
Article 2. The tax established in the previous article will be
levied on merchandise of foreign origin which is imported into the Peninsula
and the Balearic Islands, including cases where this merchandise comes via
the Canary Islands or the African Provinces and Cities of Spain.
Article 5. Under the Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes
Interiores, there will be only the following exemptions or privileges:
(a) those which stem from provisions witlh the status of law;
(b) those wlhich the Government grants for reasons of national
defense;
(c)  those which correspond to territories which have the status
of being exempted from customs duties, in which case the
Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores would not
be levied;
(d) when exceptionally and for reasons of public interest the
Government so decides tlhrough a Decree at the initiative of
the Flinistry of Finance.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
2.        According to law, the Tarifa Fiscal is calculated "by determining
the incidence of internal taxes in the usual processes of production used
in Spain." It is therefore set at a level which corresponds to the internal
indirect taxes, which competitors from abroad do not have to pay. Indeed,
the rates of the Tarifa Fiscal have been changed to reflect revisions in
internal taxes under tax reform laws. In levying this tax, the Government
is aware that many countries exempt their exporters from sales taxes --
indeed the Spaniards do this themselves. Hence, imposition of the Tarifa
Fiscal is a way of "equalizing" competition between Spanish and foreign
suppliers in the Spanish market. It is not a customs duty and is not
regarded as such by GATT.
3.        Under the two previous Loan Agreements with the Bank, RENFE under-
took to open all the contracts to be financed by the Bank to international
competitive bidding. Comparison of bids was made after increasing the CIF
price of foreign bids and the CIF price of foreign components included in
local bids by (a) the level of customs duties or 15%, whichever is less,
and (b) the Tarifa Fiscal, calculated as a percentage of the sum of the
CIF price and full customs duties (not limited to 15%). For railway equip-
ment, the Tarifa Fiscal is generally 11-16%.
4.        Actual increase of foreign bids before comparison with local bids
varies with the type of goods. For rails, customs duties are 12.5% and
Tarifa Fiscal is 16%. Foreign bids are thus increased by 12.5 + (1.125 x 16)
= 30.5%. For freight cars, customs duties are 11% on complete cars and
21.5% on parts while Tarifa Fiscal is 13% for both. Foreign bids for
complete cars are thus increased by 11 + (1.11 x 13) = 25.43% and for parts
by 15 + (1.215 x 13) = 30.8%. Under Loan 387-SP, total increase was between
26.50 and 31.10% and under Loan 507-SP, between 25.43 and 32.22%.
Freight Car Procurement Example
Customs duties on complete cars            11%
Customs duties on components               21.5%
ICGI (for both)                            13%
Comparison of Bids
1. Lowest Evaluated Foreign Bid
CIF Spanish port                        US$10,000
+ 11% customs duties on 10,000                 1,100
11 ,100
+ 13% ICGI on 11,100                           1.443
price for comparison             12,543



ANNEX 6
Page 3
2. Lowest Evaluated Spanish Bid
Spanish components                US$ 8,384
Imported componients                  3,000
total ex-factory price        11,384
+ 15% customs duties on 3,000              450
+ 13% ICGI on (1.215 x 3,000)              474
price for comparison        12,308
3. Conclusion: The order is awarded to the Spanish bidder.
June 1971






ANNEX 7
S P A I N
AF'PRAISAL OF A TBIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal                                Cumulative Disbursement
Year and Quarter                               at End of Quarter
MillicTs Iollars
_l 1972
December 31,   1971                                   5.1
March 31,       1972                                 11.9
June 30,       1972                                  20.7
Fl 1973
September 30,  1972                                  30.7
December 31,   1972                                   41.9
March 31,       1973                                  50.1
June 30,       1973                                  57.2
FY 1974
September 30,  1973                                  67.1
December 31,   1.973                                 79.0
March 31,       1.974                                 85.0
June 30,       1.974                                 90.0
April 1971



ANNEX 8
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF .A-ThIRD RAILWAY PROJECr
Relative Increases in Tariff and Gener*l Prices
.ndex                -    ---   
Level
150
I C.O.L. Index
140                                                                  /
130
REOF's
passenger
-/                           .      ~~~~~~~~~~fares
120I  -   Wholesale
/                               e s + * "~~~~~~Jr  prices Inldex
ft  + + e ++ + s v   A, +  A
110                                                                            RlNFE' s freight
/        !                      |         S-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ates
100       _
Dec/64     Dec/65      Dec/66       Dec/67      Dec/68      Dec/69    Ilec/70
______________  RENFEts freight rates (index)
2. _._-._._._._ -   RENFE's passenger  faros (indeX)
3. -- --  -4- -t- -+-    Wholesale prices IndeX
4, ..  . .             Cost Of Living Index



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Assumptions on Which
Projected Financial Statements Are Based
A.   General
The financial projections are prepared with a view to defining
realistic financial targets on the basis of information provided by RENFE.
The estimates use RENFE's current accounting practices, that is, without ad-
justment for the various possible modifications which have been discussed in
the past and which depend on data not as yet fully prepared. These possible
changes relate to separation of operating and non-operating accounts and in--
clusion of land assets, among others.
B.   Income Accounts
The estimated income accounts for the years 1971-1976 of Table 11
are based on the principal assumptions set forth below.
(a) Traffic estimates, in Tables 5 and 6;
(b)  Constant 1971 transportation rates and prices for goods and
services, except as follows:
(1) an increase in wage rates of 8% already agreed to be-
come effective January 1, 1972; and
(2) an increase of 8% in rates and fares, as of August 1,
1971; and an increase in net operating revenues, through
further reduction in operating expenses or increase in
operating revenues equivalent to at least a 4% rise in
passenger and freight revenues, effective no later than
July 1, 1972.
(c) To the extent that prices for goods and services increase fur-
ther over the 1971 level including but not confined to wage in-
creases, as evidenced by a RENFE index of such prices, it is
assumed that full recovery or offset will be made in the same
year in which the rise in costs occurs either through greater
volumes of traffic than included in the forecast, or lower op-
erating expenses than included in the forecast, or adjustments
in rates and fares, or by a combination of these methods.  A
basic condition to this assumption is use of RENFE's recently
acquired freedom to adjust its rates and fares to reflect
changes in the cost of providing the services rendered.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) Reduction of total staff from an average of 85,000
in 1970 to the following:
1971         81,000
1972          76,900
1973          72,600
1974         68,500
1975         65,300
1976         63,900
(e)  Change-s in the method of traction resulting in consumption
of fuel oil (tons), electric energy (kilowatt hours) and
gas oil (thousand of litres). A basic condition of this
assumption is tile elimination of steam traction using coal
prior to 1971 and the elimination of all steam traction by
tihe middle of 1972.
C.   Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Estimates
A Bank loan of US$90 million at 7-1/4% interest and 3/4 of 1% com-
mitment charge, for a period of 20 years including a four-year period of
grace, the first of 32 semi-annual repayments being due on November 15, 1975.
Disbursements are assumed as shown in Annex 7, the loan being fully disbursed
by June 30, 1974.
RENFE was to use Government payments of arrears to liquidate the
Bank of Spain special credit as of April 1, 1971.
June 15, 1971



. 3>~~>    -. -     ASTURIAS                                   
I                               &err u ts el  ,  EASQUE PROVINCES  .
LA |OR                      J   de Nievc                 'SATANER"
OVIE                      J~~~~~~~SuidA  nuce..:        Henday.
T /\\E,   OIE>ECI.bttcrhego  7tf   S Juid        LBAG       AN SE[ASTIAN             F      R      A      N     C     E
X     A         aj)~~~~~LUGO      Tuo              80reo     }     Cd Dos.nte   iBILBA
PAMPLONA
PTE VERA        MONFORTE               Pfferrod    LEON                         DE ERR      VonRA                                                         T,          ,
ta7//    <               7Xsforsc  \              /  BU; \               Ls org|                                      Pablo dep  *\Sr              Cre 
k   9  vo-enrabrfra<    \  PALENC;e 8cn  \               \               osteidn bastna   |bOdOs s
A                                 f                                  !   \AGOZA  LERIDA N
ANARES                              ;                                /Momo             BAR CELONA
1%                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REL
t  gl?     <s   ~~~~L. Flegenedo"?   SALAMA                       EGOVIA                /\9                                                       N 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~F. 2            de Oncta              AVILLiDAAAA                                       TERUELa/
$           /             /                    ~~~~~~~~               ~~MADRID                   \                -
) Palazuelo                                       CUENCAELLON                                     A      C
APRIL 1971                                                                                                                                                        I RED-f 334R2A,oyoif  6
>                     aJD                                /          ALCA~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAR  VAECADiGroo
4  X                    /-    C(A~~~~~      ~      ~    ~~~~~IiUCe,  CIUDAD REAL  Toels          ALBACETE             dtivo  4               +1
> >     ~         ~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ~     ~ ~~~ idAAJO  Alcd  Ch n h   Gandia    ,@
'   '                /                \                        t                     \              \   A, .   {>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi. 
. gg   O   sderezdeeofra                  \        ~~~~~~~~~ ~~Los5aldo     Ccrooc ">                     -     ' 
t            -        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \deH.erro                        EZ^B E A                                lei*                     SPA 
2   bL t/SEVILLA/>    \jMoredo    / C~~~B.-                                                                                  RENFE LINES
N   Jr   ~, r   --                     /           /             ,/         ;                                                                            \ g: . oDbte Tra a    11
Ennze jO   //                         tALAGA         ALMERI            -
SLrjcra de a                                                                                                             \ Electrifireq  IttI1    
IIDt2  t   /f <                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To be Electrifie II ' 4It  
>    4gF,  ANDAtUaA                                   SO     1~~~~~~~~~~~~p  00  l5tJ KMiS.
APRI L 1971                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD-1334R2






n   W_                        A     X  ~~~~~~~~~ X ~~A r tANAt rtC               O C E A tV
::; qj~~~~4                                      ,                          91                         i'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
z



