Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7308-PE 
(Combined with related Loan No. 4076-PE) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Loan Agreement  
(Irrigation Subsector Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
October 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER  7308-PE 
(Combined with related Loan No. 4076-PE) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
LOAN AGREEMENT  
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 2005 between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank have entered into a Loan Agreement 
(Irrigation Subsector Project) dated November 7, 1996 (the Loan Agreement), as 
amended, for the purpose of assisting through an initial loan (the Loan or the Initial Loan) 
in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the 
Project); 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional assistance 
through a supplemental loan (the Supplemental Loan) in support of the Project by 
increasing the amount made available under the Loan Agreement by an amount equal to 
ten million two hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($10,260,000);  
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Bank for International 
Cooperation (JBIC) a loan (the JBIC Loan) in an amount in Japanese Yen equivalent 
approximately to fifty six million Dollars ($56,000,000) to assist in financing the Project 
on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the JBIC Loan Agreement) to 
be entered into between the Borrower and JBIC; 
(D) 
Parts C1 (i), C1 (iii) and D of the Project will be carried out by 
Instituto 
Nacional de Recursos Naturales 
(INRENA) through 
Intendencia de Recursos Hídricos 
of
Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales 
(IRH-
INRENA) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to IRH-
INRENA part of the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan as provided in this Agreement;  
(E) 
The Borrower has adopted a Ministerial Resolution No. 498-2003-AG 
approving its National Policy and Strategy for Irrigation (
Política y Estrategia Nacional 
de
 
Riego en el Perú
); and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, including the new terms introduced pursuant to this Agreement 
(as set forth in Article II below), and the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement 
Section 2.01. 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read 
in its entirety as follows: 
“Section 1.01.  (a) The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995, (the Single Currency Loan General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement and apply in respect of the Initial Loan; and wherever used in 
this Agreement, the term "General Conditions" shall, in respect of the Initial 
Loan, be deemed to refer to the Single Currency Loan General Conditions and 
the term “Loan” shall be deemed to refer to the Initial Loan. 
 
(b) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, as 
amended through May 1, 2004 (the Fixed-Spread Loan General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement and apply in respect of the 
Supplemental Loan.” 
Section 2.02. 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read 
in its entirety as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
Article II of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by changing 
its subtitle from “The Loan” to “The Initial Loan and the Supplemental Loan” and by 
adding subsequent new sections to read as follows : 
“Section 2.08. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ten 
million two hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($10,260,000) (the Supplemental 
Loan), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.16 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The amount of the Supplemental Loan may be 
withdrawn from the Supplemental Loan Account in accordance with the 
Page  4
-
3
-
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services (including those financed through Matching Grants) required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan 
and in respect of any premium related to an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the Fixed-
Spread Loan General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PSI, may open and maintain in Dollars a 
new separate special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación
,
on
terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 9 to this Agreement.
 
Section 2.10. 
The Closing Date for the Supplemental Loan shall be 
June 30, 2008 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.11. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to 
time.  Such fee shall be payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective 
Date. 
Section 2.12. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Supplemental Loan not withdrawn from 
time to time, at a rate equal to:  (a) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but 
not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five one-
hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.13. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Supplemental Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Supplemental 
Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the Fixed-
Spread Loan General Conditions. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.14. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year in respect of the 
Supplemental Loan. 
Section 2.15. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Supplemental Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.16. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Supplemental Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Supplemental Loan Currency of all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Supplemental 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Supplemental 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Supplemental Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as 
defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the Fixed-Spread Loan General Conditions, and 
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the Fixed-
Spread Loan General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Supplemental Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the Fixed-Spread Loan General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.17. 
The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for 
Finance or the Borrower’s Director General at the time responsible for public 
indebtedness, and any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in 
writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken in respect of the Supplemental Loan 
under the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
Fixed-Spread Loan General Conditions.” 
Section 2.04. 
Article III of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as 
follows: 
“Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a) 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C1 (ii), C2 
and E of the Project through PSI, and Parts C1 (i), C1 (iii) and D of the Project 
through IRH-INRENA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, social, financial, agricultural, public 
utility, cultural heritage and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall transfer a portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
to IRH-INRENA under an Institutional Cooperation Agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and INRENA, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MAG, shall exercise its rights under the 
Institutional Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower through PSI and IRH-INRENA shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 8 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 
3.02.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the 
Project, including those financed through Matching Grants, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in 
the Procurement Plan.  
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower, through PSI, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the Fixed-Spread 
Loan General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through 
PSI, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 2.05. 
Article IV of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by adding 
subsequent new Sections to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.  (a) The Borrower, through PSI, shall in respect to the 
Supplemental Loan, establish and maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PSI, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), commencing with the fiscal year 
in which the first withdrawal under the Supplemental 
Loan was made, audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank):  (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such 
financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Supplemental Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through PSI, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Supplemental Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included 
in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.04. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in Paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through PSI, shall prepare, or cause to be prepared and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, consistent with SNIP and in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the 
Supplemental Loan, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date of the 
Supplemental Loan, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.” 
Section 2.06. 
Article V of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as 
follows: 
“Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the Fixed-Spread Loan 
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
INRENA through IRH-INRENA shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the Institutional Cooperation Agreement; 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that INRENA through IRH-INRENA will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Institutional Cooperation Agreement; 
 
(c) 
The Borrower's Decree-Law No. 25904, referred to in Section 
1.02 (h) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of INRENA through IRH-INRENA to perform any of its 
obligations under the Institutional Cooperation Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INRENA or IRH-
INRENA or for the suspension of their operations. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the Fixed-Spread Loan 
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.”
 
.
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 2.07. 
The table in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as set 
forth in the Annex 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. 
Sub-paragraphs (d) of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement is deleted and Sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement are amended to read as follows: 
“(c) the term ‘Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
in connection with the Project based on the Annual Budget approved by the 
Bank, including:  (i) for Category (6)(a) transport, local travel, per diem, vehicle 
rental expenses, vehicle operation and insurance, reproduction and printing 
services; and (ii) for Category (6)(b) transport, local travel, per diem, vehicle 
rental expenses, vehicle operation and insurance, reproduction and printing 
services, communication costs, office supplies and organization of events; all 
needed for the implementation and supervision of the Project but excluding 
salaries of  the Borrower’s civil service and regular staff of IRH-INRENA.” 
Section 2.09. 
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement are 
amended  to read in their entirety as follows: 
“3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) any Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the 
Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.11 of the Loan Agreement; 
and (ii) payments made with regard to the Supplemental Loan, for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Amending Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000, may be made in respect of:  (A) 
Category (1)(a) of the table in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made 
for expenditures incurred before the date of the Amending Agreement but after 
April 11, 2005; and (B) Categories (3) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 above 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred before the date of the 
Amending Agreement but after January 1, 2005. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Supplemental Loan 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
under contracts for:  (a) goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; 
(b) community works under Category 1 (a) under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) Matching 
Grants for Subprojects under Category (5); and (f) operating costs under 
Category (6); all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.” 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Section 2.10. 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as set 
forth in the Annex 3 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.11. 
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by 
changing its subtitle from “Amortization Schedule” to “1.  Amortization Schedule for the 
Initial Loan” and by adding a subsequent new paragraph to read as follows: 
“2.  Amortization Schedule for the Supplemental Loan: 
(a) The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Supplemental Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the 
Supplemental Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  
If the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Supplemental Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined 
by the Bank by multiplying:  (i) the total principal amount of the Supplemental 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (ii) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in sub-paragraph 
(d) of this paragraph, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
Beginning on July 15, 2013 through July 15, 
2018 
 
8.33% 
On January 15, 2019 
8.37% 
 
(b) If the proceeds of the Supplemental Loan shall not have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Supplemental Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date 
shall be determined as follows: 
(i) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Supplemental 
Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Schedule. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(ii) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment 
Date shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date 
falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of 
each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph (a) of this Schedule for said 
Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) 
and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal 
Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such 
repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in sub-paragraph (d) of 
this paragraph, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
(c) 
(i) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  
withdrawal. 
(ii) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) of 
this paragraph (c), if at any time the Bank shall adopt a 
due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply 
to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
this paragraph, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Supplemental Loan to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange 
rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by 
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or 
(ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
Page  13
-
12 - 
(e) 
If the principal amount of the Supplemental Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this paragraph shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
sched
ule for each such amount.” 
Section 2.12. 
The subtitle of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended to 
read “Procurement and Consultants’ Services under the Initial Loan”. 
Section 2.13. 
The subtitle of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is amended to 
read “Implementation Program under the Initial Loan”. 
Section 2.14. 
The subtitle of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement is amended to 
read “Special Account under the Initial Loan”. 
Section 2.15. 
A new Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement (“Procurement under 
the Supplemental Loan”) is added to read as set forth in the Annex 4 to this Amending 
Agreement. 
Section 2.16. 
A new Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement (“Implementation 
Program under the Supplemental Loan”) is added to read as set forth in the Annex 5 to 
this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.17. 
A new Schedule 9 to the Loan Agreement (“Supplemental Loan 
Special Account”) is added to read as set forth in the Annex 6 to this Amending 
Agreement. 
Section 2.18. 
A new Schedule 10 to the Loan Agreement (“Performance 
Indicators” under the Supplemental Loan) is added to read as set forth in the Annex 7 to 
this Amending Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 3.01. 
This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that: (a) the 
Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower through a Ministerial 
Resolution; (b) the execution and delivery of the Institutional Cooperation Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower through MAG and on behalf of INRENA have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action; (c) the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (d) the Borrower 
Page  14
-
13 - 
made payments to finance eligible expenditures under the Project incurred prior to the 
date
 
of this Amending Agreement up to an aggregate amount equivalent to: (i) $700,000 
for activities under Parts A, C and E of the Project, with the proviso that said 
expenditures must have been incurred: (A) after January 1, 2005 under Part C of the 
Project; or (B) after April 11, 2005 under Parts A and E of the Project; and (ii) $900,000 
for activities under Part D of the Project, with the proviso that said expenditures must 
have been incurred after January 1, 2005. 
Section 3.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 3.01 
of this Amending Agreement and Section 12.02 (c) of the Fixed-Spread Loan General 
Conditions, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that: 
(a) 
this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
the Institutional Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower through MAG and 
INRENA and is legally binding upon the Borrower through MAG and INRENA in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.03. 
This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Bank shall dispatch to the Borrower a notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Amending Agreement. 
Section 3.04. 
If the conditions set forth in Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this 
Agreement have not been met by January 26, 2006, this Amending Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a later 
date for the purposes of this Section.   
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Lima, Peru as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Fernando Zavala Lombardi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo M. Giugale 
 
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  16
-
15 - 
ANNEX 1 
“Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Single Currency Loan General Conditions, and the Fixed-Spread Loan General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement dated October 28, 2005 entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of providing additional assistance 
in support of the Project; 
(b)  
‘ATDR’ means ‘
Administración Técnica de Distrito de Riego
’, the local water 
authority within MAG created and operating under Borrower’s Law No. 17752, dated 
July 24, 1969; 
(c) 
‘Environmental Management Plan’ means the plan to be adopted by the 
Borrower, outlining (i) implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
guidelines in relation to activities under the Project involving the use of pest control 
products; (ii) chance finding measures for cultural heritage property; and (iii) monitoring 
guidelines and environmental guidelines for all infrastructure investments under the 
Project; said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval and 
shall be annexed to the Project Operational Manual; 
(d) ‘Executive 
Council’ 
(
Consejo Directivo
)
means the highest oversight body for 
the Project headed by the Minister of Agriculture and comprising representatives from 
MEF, IRH-INRENA, WUOs, the agro-export sector, academia, and the regional 
governments, as established and operating under a Ministerial Resolution to be adopted 
by the Borrower; 
(e) 
‘Financial Monitoring Report’ or ‘FMR’ means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Independent Auditors” means the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.03(b)(i) of this Agreement and paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 8 to this Agreement selected 
for each auditing task under separate selection procedures in accordance with Section III 
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement and contracted for a period of up to two years; 
 
(g) 
‘Initial Loan’ means the loan provided for in Section 2.01 of the Loan 
Agreement; 
 
(h) ‘INRENA’ 
means 
‘
Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales
’, the Borrower’s 
national institute for natural resources, established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 25904, dated November 29, 1992; 
Page  17
-
16 - 
(i) 
‘Institutional Cooperation Agreement’ means the agreement executed between 
the MAG and INRENA, for purposes of governing such parties’ cooperation with respect 
to the implementation of Parts C1 (i); C1 (iii) and D of the Project; as witnessed by the 
Bank; 
(j) ‘IRH-INRENA’ 
means 
‘
Intedencia de Recursos Hídricos’
,
the Borrower’s 
national water authority within INRENA; 
(k) 
‘MAG’ means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(l) 
‘Matching Grant’ means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Recipient for 
activities for Subprojects under Part B of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement and with the Matching Grants Operational Manual; 
(m) 
‘Matching Grant Agreement’ means an agreement between PSI and a Recipient, 
setting forth the terms and conditions under which a Matching Grant shall be made 
available to said Recipient for the purpose of financing activities under Part B of the 
Project in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement and with the 
Matching Grants Operational Manual; 
(n) 
‘Matching Grants Operational Manual’ means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement, to be annexed to the Project Operational 
Manual and outlining policies, procurement, disbursement and implementation 
procedures as well as monitoring guidelines for Subprojects under Part B of the Project;  
(o) 
‘MEF’ means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
 (p) 
‘Procurement Plan’ means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated April 15, 2005 
covering the entire period of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 8 to this 
Agreement; 
(q) 
‘Project Operational Manual’ means the manual to be approved by the Borrower 
through a Ministerial Resolution and
 
outlining policies and implementation procedures 
including institutional strengthening and environmental mitigation plans as well as 
monitoring guidelines and guidelines for the selection of Subprojects in accordance with 
SNIP and other related documents.  Said manual may be amended for time to time with 
the Bank’s prior approval, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Operation 
Manual, including the Matching Grants Operational Manual, the MAG Ministerial 
Resolution on eligibility criteria for WUOs, the MAG Ministerial Resolution on the 
establishment and operation of the Executive Council, the MAG Ministerial Resolution 
Page  18
-
17 - 
approving the organizational and functional manual of the Project; and the Environmental 
Management Plan; 
 (r) 
‘PSI’ means the Project implementation team within MAG in charge of the day-
to-day management and execution of the Project; 
(s) 
‘Recipient’ or ‘Recipients’ means a group of at least six (6) farmers with a 
minimum of twenty four (24) hectares which has met the eligibility criteria specified in 
the Matching Grants Operational Manual, and, as a result, has been granted or is to be 
granted a Matching Grant for a Subproject under Part B of the Project;  
(t) ‘SNIP’ 
means 
‘
Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública
’, the Borrower’s national 
system of public investment created and operating under Law No. 27293, dated June 28, 
2000 and establishing principles, processes, methodologies and technical guidelines for 
every phase of public investment in the Borrower’s territory; 
(u) 
‘Special Account’ or ‘Special Account under the Initial Loan’ means the account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement; 
(v) 
‘Subproject’ means any of the activities approved by PSI in accordance with the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Matching Grants Operational Manual and in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement; 
(w) 
‘Supplemental Loan’ means the loan provided for in Section 2.08 of the Loan 
Agreement also identified as 
'Ampliación del Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigación -  PSI  
-
en el marco del Préstamo 4076-PE Banco Mundial'  
by the Borrower; 
(x) 
‘Supplemental Loan Special Account’ or ‘Special Account under the 
Supplemental Loan’ means the account referred to in Section 2.09 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement; 
(y) 
‘Water Resources Strategy’ means the Borrower’s water resources strategy as 
formalized in MAG Ministerial Resolution No. 0082-2004-AG; 
(z) 
‘WUO’ means a water user organization which, depending on the context, can be 
either an irrigators’ commission ‘
Comisión de Regantes’
 or a users’ board ‘
Junta de
 
Usuarios
’, or both or any other eligible water organization acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual”; and 
(aa) 
‘WUO Eligibility Criteria’ means the eligibility criteria established in order for 
WUOs to benefit from the Parts A and B of the Project; i.e.: (i) a technical manager has 
Page  19
-
18 - 
been appointed for the relevant WUO; (ii) a realistic budget reflected in water tariffs has 
been adopted allowing efficient operation and maintenance; (iii) the advanced water tariff 
payment system has been adopted; and (iv) at least 75% of said tariff has been paid in 
advance. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
ANNEX 2
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Initial Loan and Supplemental Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Loan and Supplemental Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Initial Loan and Supplemental Loan to each of their respective Categories and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each such Category: 
 
Initial Loan 
 
Supplemental Loan 
Category Amount 
of 
the Initial 
Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollar 
Equivalent) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
Amount of 
the 
Supplemental 
Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar 
Equivalent) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
(1) Civil Works under Part 
A
of the Project 
 
(a) Community works 
 
40,100,000 
 
1,500,000 
 
85% 
 
100% of the 
Borrower’s 
contribution 
 
2,500,000 
 
65% until 
June 30, 
2006; 60% 
thereafter 
(2) Goods 
 
1,610,000 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 85% of 
local 
expenditures 
 
1,100,000 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 85% of 
local 
expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
and Audits 
 
26,600,000 
 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
 
4,160,000 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 85% of 
local 
expenditures 
 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(4) Agricultural Extension 
Services  
 
124,000 
 
40% 
 
(5) Goods, Works and 
Services for Matching 
Grants under Subprojects 
 
5,687,000 
 
50% 
 
1,840,000 
 
70% 
 
(6) Operating Costs 
 
(a) under Parts A and B of 
the Project; and 
 
(b) under Parts C and D of 
the Project 
 
4,400,000 
75% until 
withdrawals 
under this 
category 
reach an 
aggregate 
amount 
equivalent to 
$350,000; 
50% until 
withdrawals 
under this 
category 
reach an 
aggregate 
amount 
equivalent to 
$700,000; 
and 25% 
thereafter 
 
24,000 
 
636,000 
 
85% until 
withdrawals 
under this 
category 
reach an 
aggregate 
amount 
equivalent to 
$330,000; 
and 75% 
thereafter 
(7) Civil works under other 
Parts of the Project 
 
4,200,000 
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 75% of 
local 
expenditures 
 
(8) Unallocated 
 
779,000 
 
(9) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due 
under Section 
2.16 of the 
Loan 
Agreement 
TOTAL 85,000,000 
 
10,260,000 
 
Page  22
-
21 - 
ANNEX 3 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture 
in the Borrower’s coastal territory in order to improve the well being of farmers and 
contribute to poverty alleviation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Infrastructure
Design, execution and supervision of rehabilitation works for public irrigation 
infrastructure up to a total investment cost of US$250,000 each including taxes. 
Part B
:
Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement
Design, installation and supervision of incentive-driven technified irrigation systems 
through the establishment of a Matching-Grant program and the participation of the 
Recipients. 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for WUOs 
(i) Approve capacity building programs for the WUOs in the areas of financial, 
administrative and technical management; (ii) carry out said capacity building programs; 
and (iii) follow-up with WUOs and ATDRs the execution of said capacity building 
programs. 
2. 
Capacity Building in Technification of Irrigation  
Carrying out of: (i)
 
capacity building programs for the Recipients, including 
sensitization initiatives, promotion of group formation, technical assistance in the 
elaboration and management of the Subprojects as well as the preparation of business 
Page  23
-
22 - 
plans; and (ii) an extension and promotion program on technified irrigation and related 
agricultural practices, including pest management, for farmers and agricultural workers. 
Part D
:
Support to Water Resources Management
1. 
Formalization and issuance of water right licenses in favor of approximately 
190,000 irrigated lots assigned in irrigation blocks. 
2. 
Establishment of an administrative registry of water rights for the administration 
of water licenses, permits and authorization. 
3. 
Support to:  (i) the preparation of the Borrower’s Water Resources Strategy, 
including discussion fora at the national and sub-national levels; and (ii)
 
the reform of the 
legal framework for water use in the Borrower’s territory. 
Part E
:
Coordination and Monitoring
Strengthening of the PSI to enable it to carry out its coordination and monitoring 
functions for the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
ANNEX 4 
SCHEDULE 7 
Procurement under the Supplemental Loan 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Consultants’ Services
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower by domestic suppliers. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 or less equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost $250,000 or less equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requir
ements for Direct Contracting may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
4. Small 
Community 
Works
.
Small community works estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per community work and required for Part A of the Project may be 
carried out by the respective WUO.  
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services (other that consultants’ 
services) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and required for 
Part B of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures described in paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and in the Matching Grants Operational Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Least Cost Selection
.
Services for assignments estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least Cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
Page  26
-
25 - 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Commercial 
Practices
.
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract and required under Part B of the Project may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank and with the Matching Grants Operational 
Manual.  
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to 
individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the first two contracts awarded under national competitive bidding procedures and 
shopping procedures as well as each contract for works and goods estimated to cost 
$500,000 equivalent or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower, through PSI, shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(h) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
Page  27
-
26 - 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual to be procured on the basis of single 
source selection:  (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
B. Post 
Review
.
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Section V
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of 
goods, works and non-consultant services under Section II of this Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
2. 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, 
shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3. 
The Borrower, through PSI, shall utilize standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
4. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bids or any documentation 
related to such bids with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or 
any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the bidding process. 
 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section III of this Schedule: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
3. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a
contract for consulting services. 
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating in the 
selection process. 
 
Page  29
-
28 - 
ANNEX 5 
SCHEDULE 8 
Implementation Program under the Supplemental Loan 
1. General
The Borrower, through MAG, shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual 
(including all its annexes, as referred to in Section 1.02 (q) of this Agreement) and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
Project Operational Manual (including all its annexes, as referred to in Section 1.02 (q) of 
this Agreement) without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Project Operational Manual (including all its annexes, as 
referred to in Section 1.02 (q) of this Agreement) and those of this Agreement, the terms 
of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 10 
to this Amending Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;  
(c) 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, the PSI 
with competent staff in adequate numbers;  
(d) 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, the 
Executive Council with competent staff in adequate numbers; Said Executive Council 
shall convene at least semi-annually and shall submit minutes of said meetings to the 
Bank; 
(e) 
enter into and thereafter implement until the completion of the execution 
of the Project the Institutional Cooperation Agreement with INRENA, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any substantive provision of said Agreement without 
the Bank’s prior written approval.  This Agreement will not be assigned, amended, 
abrogated or waived if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendments or waivers may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Parts C1 (i), C1 (iii) and D of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.  In case of any conflict between the 
Page  30
-
29 - 
terms of said Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail; and 
(f) 
cause IRH-INRENA to carry out through its own procurement unit the 
procurement of goods, works and services needed under Parts C1 (i), C1 (iii) and D of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
2. 
Semi-Annual Progress Reports
The Borrower, through PSI and within the framework of SNIP, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, starting on the first such date 
after the Effective Date, a semi-annual progress report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31
 
of each year, 
starting on the month following the presentation of the first semi-annual progress report, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
3. 
Annual Procurement Audits 
The Borrower, through PSI, shall: 
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year 
of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  31
-
30 - 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement 
records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
4. 
Procurement Plan and Annual Budget
The Borrower, through PSI, shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, starting on the 
first such date after the Effective Date, the updated Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, detailing all procurement activities under the Project for the following twelve 
months; 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 of each year, starting on the month 
following the presentation of the first updated Procurement Plan, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the plan referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the plan based 
on its recommendations and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, starting on the 
first such date after the Effective Date, the updated Annual Budget, satisfactory to the 
Bank, including operating costs and detailing all expenditures under the Project for the 
following twelve months; 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 of each year, starting on the month 
following the presentation of the first updated Annual Budget, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the Annual Budget referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the budget 
based on its recommendation and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(e) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Procurement Plan and/or 
the Annual Budget and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
5. 
Matching Grants for Subprojects under Part B of the Project
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower, through PSI, shall monitor the activities under Part B of the Project and 
supervise the Matching Grants for Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of (i) 
this paragraph;  (ii) SNIP; and (iii) the Matching Grants Operational Manual.  
Page  32
-
31 - 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PSI, shall, prior to the submission of the 
Supplemental Loan withdrawal application for the respective Subproject to be financed 
through a Matching Grant, furnish to the Bank a report confirming that the respective 
Matching Grant Agreement has been executed, indicating the name of the Recipient and 
detailing how the selection was conducted. 
(c) 
The Matching Grants shall be requested by a Recipient up to an 
aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent and solely for the purposes of the activities 
under Part B of the Project. 
(d) 
The Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to a Matching Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between PSI and the Recipient under terms and conditions 
described in more details in the Matching Grants Operational Manual and which shall 
include the following: 
(i) 
a copy of the approved activity with its budget, disbursement and 
its performance indicators; 
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Recipient to:  (A) carry out the activities 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, social, cultural heritage, agricultural, 
natural and environmental standards and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Matching Grants Operational Manual; (B) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with simple 
and sound accounting practices defined in the Matching Grants 
Operational Manual, the operations, the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Subproject; and (C) maintain 
adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified in 
the Matching Grants Operational Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that:  (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Matching Grants shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 
7
to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the activities 
financed by the Matching Grant; 
(v) 
the right of PSI to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Borrower 
and the Bank, if the Borrower or the Bank shall so request, the 
goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the 
Page  33
-
32 - 
Subprojects financed by the Matching Grants, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of PSI to obtain all information as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the Subprojects financed 
by the Matching Grants; and 
(vii) 
(A) the right of PSI to suspend and terminate the right of the 
Recipient to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant; and (B) the 
obligation of the Recipient to refund any used portion of the 
Matching Grant to PSI, upon failure by the Recipient to perform 
any of its obligations under its Matching Grant Agreement. 
(e) 
PSI shall exercise its rights under the Matching Grant Agreements in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank 
in order to accomplish the purposes of Part B of the Project, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, PSI shall not assign or abrogate the Matching Grant Agreements or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  34
-
33 - 
ANNEX 6 
SCHEDULE 9 
Supplemental Loan Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Supplemental Loan Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Supplemental Loan Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Supplemental 
Loan Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Supplemental Loan 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Supplemental Loan 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Supplemental Loan Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower, through PSI, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Supplemental Loan Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, through PSI, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Supplemental Loan Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower, through PSI, shall have requested. 
(b)      (i) 
For replenishment of the Supplemental Loan Special Account, 
the Borrower, through PSI, shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Supplemental Loan Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  35
-
34 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, 
through PSI, shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, through PSI, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Supplemental Loan Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower, through PSI, shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Supplemental Loan 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower, through PSI, out of the Supplemental 
Loan Special Account, the Borrower, through PSI, shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Supplemental Loan Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower, through PSI, directly from the 
Supplemental Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the Fixed-
Spread Loan General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.09 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower, through PSI, shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Supplemental Loan Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Supplemental Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Supplemental Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Fixed-Spread Loan General 
Page  36
-
35 - 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Supplemental Loan 
Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Supplemental Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Supplemental Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Supplemental Loan Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  
(A) provide such Supplemental evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Supplemental Loan Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Supplemental Loan Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Supplemental Loan Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
 
Page  37
-
36 - 
ANNEX 7 
SCHEDULE 10 
Performance Indicators for the Supplemental Loan
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
End of Project 
1. Number of WUOs meeting the Eligibility Criteria. 
 
47 
2. Average rate of cost recovery of operation and 
maintenance for all the WUOs included in the Project. 
 
81% 
3. Number of farmer families benefiting from Part A of the 
Project. 
 
32,000 
 
4. Numbered of farmer families benefiting from Part B of the 
Project. 
 
700 
5. Number of hectares included in the technified irrigation 
program under Part B of the Project. 
 
3,000 
6. Contribution from farmers included under Part A of the 
Project. 
 
US$1.9 million 
7. Contribution from Recipients included in the technified 
irrigation program under Part B of the Project. 
 
US$2.7 million 
 
8. Number of new water licenses. 
 
190,000 
