Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13542-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
JUNE 27, 1996
Country Department III
Natural Resources Development and Rural Povery Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRE,NCY UNIT
(AS OF JUNE 26, 1996)
Currency Unit      =     Nuevos Soles
USSI.00            =     0.4082
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND M4EASURES
The metric system is used
throughout the report
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMlS
AACH               Autoridad Aut6noma de              Automonous River Basin Authority
Cuenca Hidrografica
BN                 Banco de la Nacidn                 National Bank
BNF                Banco Nacional de Fomento          National Bank for Development
CCA                Comisidn Consultiva Agraria        Consultative Agricultural Board
CFls               Instituciones Financieras          Commercial Financial Institutions
Comerciales
COFIDE             Corporaci6n Financiera de          Development Finance Corporation
Desarrollo
CONAMA             Consejo Nacional del Medio         National Environmental Council
Ambiente
DL                 Decreto Legislativo                Legislative Decree
DS                 Decreto Supremo                    Supreme Decree
EPSA               Empresa Publica de Servicios       Public Enterprise for Agricultural
Agropecuarios                      Services
FAO/CP             Organizacidn de las Naciones       Food and Agriculture
Unidas para la Agricultura y la    Organization/Cooperative Program
Alimentaci6n
FONCODES           Fondo Nacional de                  National Social Compensation and
Compensacidn y Desarrollo          Development Fund
GDP                Producto Bruto Intemo              Gross Domestic Product
GTZ                Sociedad Alemana de                Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Cooperacidn Tdcnica                Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDB                Banco Interamericano de            Inter-American Development Bank
Desarrollo
IDEA               Instituto de Desarroilo            Altermadve Development Institute
Alternadvo
IMP                Fondo Monetario Intemacional       Intemrational Monetary Fund
INADE              Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo   National Institute for Development
INTA               Instituto Nacional de              National Institute for Agricultural
Investigacidn Agraria              Research
lNIAA              Instituto Nacional de              National Institute for Agricultural
Investigaci6n Agricola y           and Agroindustrial Research
Agroindustrial
INIPA              Instituto Nacional de              National Institute for Agricultural
Investigacion y Promocion          Research and Promotion
Agricola
INRENA             Instituto Nacional de Recursos     National Institute for Natural
Naturales                          Resources
MAG                Ministerio de Agricultura          Ministry of Agriculture
MEF                Ministerio de Economfa y           Ministry of Economy and Finance
Fina=
NGOs               Organizaciones No-                 Non-Govemmental Organizations
Gubernamentales
OECF               Fondo de Cooperaci6n               The Overseas Economic
Economica a Ultramar (Jap6n)       Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ONA                Organizaci6n Nacional Agraria      National Agrarian Organization
ONAA               Oficina Nacional de Apoyo          National Office for Food Assistance
ALimentario
OPA                Oficina de Planificaci6n Agraria   Agricultural Planning Office
PCU                Unidad de Coordinacion del         Project Coordinating Unit
Proyecto
SAIS               Sociedades Agricolas de Interds    Social Agricultural Societies of
Social Interest
USADID             Agencia para el Desarrollo         United States Agency for
Intemacional (Estados Unidos)      Intemational Development
WUO                Junta de Usuarios / Comision       Water User Association / Irrigation
de Regantes                        District Commission



PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN  AND  PROJECT SUTMMARY  ...............................   i
1. BACKGROUND ........................................... 1
A. Country Overview ...................................... 1
B. The Agricultural Sector ................................... 2
C. The Irrigation Subsector  .................................. 3
D. Environmental Sector .................................... 4
E. Lessons from  Previous Bank Involvement  ....................... 5
2. THE PROJECT                         .............................                                        6
A. Project Objectives and Description ............................ 6
B. Irrigation Rehabilitation Component ........................... 6
C. Institutional Development and Strengthening of Users' Organizations
Component  ........................................ 7
D. Incentive Program  for Technology Improvement Component ............ 8
E. Dam  Safety Emergency Program   ............................. 9
F. Project Administration and Monitoring   ........................ 10
E. Project Environmental Aspects  ............................. 10
3. PROJECT COST AND  FINANCING   ...........                            .................. 12
A. Summary of Project Costs ................................ 12
B. Project Financing   .....................................  13
C. Cost Recovery and Water Charges ........................... 13
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENTS   ...... ....... ..                                ................... 16
A. National Level Organization and Management .................... 16
B. Management of Water User Organizations  ...................... 17
C. Loan Funding for the Rehabilitation of Economically Viable Schemes  ... ..  18
D. Accounts and Audits ................................... 20
E. Monitoring and Evaluation ................................ 20
F. Procurement  ........................................ 21
G. Disbursements  ....................................... 23
H. Retroactive Financing ................................... 24
5. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC  JUSTIFICATION  AND RISKS   .... ..                                     ......... 25
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries  ................................ 25
B. Economic Analysis  .................................... 25
C. Project Risks . ........................................ 26
6. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... 28



ANNEXES
ANNEX  1.  Project Components by Year ............................. 31
ANNEX  2.  Description of the Rehabilitation Works ...................... 32
ANNEX  3.  Institutional Strengthening of Water Users' Organizations  ....                         ....... 37
ANNEX  4.  Incentives Program  for Technology Improvement  ................ 40
ANNEX  5.  Financing of Irrigation Rehabilitation Works  ................... 43
ANNEX  6.  Emergency Dam  Rehabilitation and Dam  Safety Program   ....                            ....... 49
ANNEX  7.  Environmental Aspects ................................ 52
ANNEX  8.  Financial and Economic Analysis  .......................... 57
ANNEX  9.  Implementation Plan .................................. 66
ANNEX  10. Supervision Program  ................................. 70
ANNEX  11. Monitoring Indicators ................................. 71
ANNEX  12. Impact Indicators ................................... 72
ANNEX  13. Loan Disbursement Schedule   ............................ 73
ANNEX  14. List of Documents in Project Files  ......................... 74
MAP: IBRD 25955R1



PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUtMMARY
Borrower:                            The Republic of Peru
Implementing Agency:                 Ministry of Agriculture
Beneficiary                          WUOS
Poverty                              NA
Amount:                              US$ 85.0 million
Terms:                               Standard variable interest rate for a LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loan, payable in 17 years, including a five-year
grace period.
Commitment Fee:                      0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
On Lending Terms:                    Funds for irrigation rehabilitation will be passed to WUOS via
COFIDE, which will channel the funds to CFIs on-lending to
WUOS. COFIDE will use a lending rate based on its normal
rediscount on lending rate (as defined in para. 6.1 (f)) payable
in a maximum of 17 years, including a grace period up to 5
years. CFIs will lend at commercial rates.
Financing Plan:                      Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ millions)
Government                           ---         ---          16.4
IBRD                                 63.5        21.5         85.0
Beneficiaries                        6.0         5.0           11.0
OECF                                 49.4         10.6        60.0
Total                                131.6       39.1          172.4
Environmental Classification:        B
Financial Rate of Return':           36.3%
Economic Rate of Return':            38.7%
Map:                                 IBRD 25955R1
1 Estimated only for Irrigation Rehabilitation Component



I



ii
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
Component                      Local      Foreinn     Total       %        % Total
Foreign    Base Cost
(US$ million equivalent)
A.    Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage     89.1        13.3     102.4        13           65
Infrastructure
B.    Institutional Development/Training of WUOs     3.5         2.5       6.0        42            4
C.    Incentive Program for Technology
Improvement
1. Training and Extension  Services          10.3         2.6      12.9        20            8
2. Incentives Fund                           10.1        15.1       25.2        60           16
D.    Project Administration and Monitoring          2.5         0.4       2.9        13            2
E.     Emergency Dam Safety Program                  4.2         2.8       7.0        40            5
Base Cost                                          119.7        36.7     156.4        24           100
Physical Contingencies                               5.6         1.2       6.8        18            4
Price Contingencies                                  7.4         1.8       9.2        20            5
Total Project Cost                                 132.7        39.7     172.4        23           110
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                63.5        21.5      85.0
OECF                                                49.4        10.6      60.0
Beneficiaries                                        3.7         7.3      11.0
Government of Peru                                  16.4                  16.4
Total                                              133.0        39.4     172.4
Estimated Disbursements
[  Bank Fiscal Year      1997"         1998        1999        2000       2001      2002
AnnualP                 6.0          14.8         27.0        22.8       11.9      2.5
C umulative               6.0          20.8        47.8        70.6       82.5       85.0
Financial Rate of Return:    36.3%3'
Economic Rate of Return:     38.7%
l' Including US$0.5 million for retroactive financing.
2' Including initial deposits of US$4.5 million into two special accounts. Disbursements profile is structured to
accomodate OECF parallel financing for rehabilitation works during the first two years of implementation.
2' Estimated only for Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Component.






PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. Country Overview
1.1         Peru's twenty-two million people inhabit an area of 129 million hectares.
About 10 percent of Per-u's area is located along a narrow coastal strip between the Pacific
Ocean and the foothills of the Andes; 30 percent is mountainous (Sierra), made up of the
valleys and western plateaus of the Andes; and 60 percent lies in the Amazon watershed
(Selva), comprised of the valleys and eastern plateaus of the Andes (Ceja de Selva) and the
Amazon jungle (Selva Baja).
1.2      - From the late 1960s until about 1990, economic policies in Peru were mainly
characterized by heavy Government intervention and control. Only recently has the
Govemment embarked on a program of widespread market-based reforms.
1.3         Starting in 1990, under the leadership of President Fujimori, the Government
began implementing a series of broad-based reforms to restore long-term economic growth.
These reforms were aimed at: (a) improving incentives policies so prices would better
reflect their opportunity costs; (b) reducing government subsidies in order to control the
budget deficit and inflation; (c) improving the regulatory environmen, o2 promote private
investment; (d) and controlling violence and drug trafficking. More specifically, key reforms
included:
(a)  Macroeconomic and trade policies which controlled public sector wages, brought
prices of public goods more in line with international prices, and eliminated
import duty exemptions and quantitative import restrictions;
(b)  Pricing and marketing policies which dismantled the costly guaranteed producer
price mechanism and replaced it with a floor price mechanism implemented
through use of import charges, eliminated consumer price controls, and
significantly reduced Government intervention in marketing;
(c)  Rural finance reforms which eliminated preferential agricultural interest rates and
allowed banks to freely set rates, liquidated the Banco Agrario (BAP), and
created new second-tier institutions for lending to small businesses and farmers;
(d)  Coca eradication efforts which involve farmers in the design and execution of
coca substitution programs and include complementary assistance for land
registration programs, credit, institutional development, environmental
preservation, interdiction, and human rights issues.
1.4       In agriculture, the Government began to implement many fundamental reforms.
It moved to liberalize product, financial and land markets and to reduce the budgetary drain



caused by subsidies and price guarantee mechanisms. ECASA, the agricultural marketing
agency, was liquidated, while ENCI, the agricultural import monopoly agency, was
restructured and its monopoly removed. Preferential interest rates in agriculture were
eliminated and the unprofitable Agricultural Bank liquidated. Land can now be more easily
traded, leased or mortgaged. Maximum land holding limits were raised and land registration
procedures simplified. The Government has taken major steps to remove the restrictions on
the sale and lease of agricultural land. With some exceptions, agricultural land can now be
freely traded or leased to any individual or legal entity, including foreign companies.
Furthermore, the restriction on the use of agricultural lands as collateral for commercial bank
loans has been eliminated. The Government is now beginning a program to provide
registered titles to owners. There is a critical need to complete the registration of clear and
definable titles so that the agricultural lands are capable of being transferred and used as
collateral for borrowing.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.5       Peru is not fundamentally an agricultural economy. The potentially cultivable
area is estimated at only 6 percent of the total area. An additional 14 percent of the area is
suitable for pasture and 38 percent for forestry. The remaining 42 percent is either desert,
mountains or protected land. Although the Costa is largely a desert strip, it holds 53 percent
of the population, including that of greater Lima which accounts for about a third of the
country's population. It has only 21 percent of the cultivable area, yet accounts for 60
percent of agricultural GDP. The region receives most of its water from 52 rivers that flow
from the Sierra. In some areas, underground water is also available. Given the lack of
rainfall, all cultivated land in the Costa is irrigated. The bulk of agricultural public
investment has gone to finance large scale irrigation projects in this region. Many of the
projects have been only moderately successful and some were never completed. Many have
fallen into disrepair and are no longer functioning at full capacity. An estimated 200,000 to
300,000 hectares of land are adversely affected by salinity and waterlogging.
1.6       A natural constraint that limits the prospects for agricultural production is the
availability of water resources. Although water resources are abundant in national terms,
they are poorly distributed, both geographically and in terms of timing of availability. The
bulk (98 percent) of the country's water supply is located in the Amazon basin where the
potential for agricultural expansion is limited while the area of greatest potential expansion,
the Costa, is entirely dependent on uncertain and highly variable seasonal supplies from
rivers originating in the Sierra -- about 70 to 85 percent of the water flow occurs between
January and April. Thus, despite its vast area, Peru's per capita availability of cultivable
land is only 0.13 hectares, less than one-third the average for South America.
1.7        Peru's most important crops, in terms of value of production, are rice, cotton,
sugarcane, eggs, milk, poultry and coffee. Of these, coffee, cotton and sugar have
traditionally been Peru's most important export crops. Roughly one-fourth of the total value
of agricultural production is in the form of poultry and livestock products; another one-third
is in the form of fruits, vegetables and native crops such as quinoa; and the remainder is in
the form of the major field crops such as white and yellow corn, rice, potatoes, beans,
wheat, cotton, sorghum, sugar and coffee. In terms of cultivated area, white and yellow
corn, potatoes and rice are the most important crops.



1.8       Peru has the potential to develop an export industry in non-traditional crops such
as fruits and vegetables. These are grown almost exclusively in the Costa. They are well
situated for export to northem hemisphere markets, both by virtue of being located on the
coast where they can be exported easily, and because of the favorable climate and the fact
that they can be produced in the "off-season" for northem markets. Currently, the most
important of these specialty crops is high-quality fresh, frozen and canned asparagus which is
shipped primarily to Northem European markets. Asparagus accounts for nearly 10 percent
of the value of legal agricultural exports from Peru and has substantial growth potential.
Another set of non-traditional products which Peru has successfully exported are several
varieties of natural colorants including marigold flowers (used to produce an orange-yellow
color) and cochineal (an insect product used to produce carminic acid) of which Peru
produces 85 percent of the world's supply. Other crops which represent great potential but
have yet to be more fully developed include flowers (in the Costa), palm oil (in the Selva),
brazil nuts (in the Selva) and several varieties of beans. Peru also produces a number of
other unique specialty products such as alpaca wool and several crops of the Incas (e.g.,
quinoa) which are found in the Andean region.
1.9       Peru's livestock sector is now dominated by the poultry industry which accounts
for over 50 percent of the total volume of production in the subsector. Beef is the second
most important meat product and constitutes 25 percent of the volume of meat produced in
Peru, followed by pork (18 percent) and mutton (5 percent). Poultry production has been the
most dynamic activity within the Peruvian agricultural sector over the last twenty years. The
volume of poultry production has more than quadrupled since 1970. In contrast, production
of beef and pork production has grown only marginally over the same period, while mutton
production has declined. The poultry industry has expanded rapidly through the adoption of
a vertically integrated, commercial input-intensive, production structure located along the
Costa.
C. The Irrigation Subsector
1.10      Irrigated areas are estimated to account for more than two-thirds of agricultural
output. Except for a few modern irrigation schemes, most of the irrigation infrastructure is
old and in need of extensive rehabilitation. Less than half of the irrigated lands have a
reliable year-round water supply. Due to inadequate cost recovery, deferred maintenance,
and inadequate management, water is used inefficiently in most of the irrigated areas.
Moreover, many large irrigation schemes introduced in the coastal region of Peru since the
early 1960s were not economically viable and too many projects were undertaken in relation
to the fiscal resources available. Thus some of the projects that were begun in the 1960s are
still not completed, while those that are completed suffer from inadequate funding for proper
maintenance and repair.
1.11      The primary problem encountered in past public irrigation projects has been the
lack of funds as well as of a sustainable operation and maintenance (O&M) program,
resulting in the deferral of necessary maintenance and repair and the progressive deterioration
of irrigation infrastructure. In relation to the shortage of funding for O&M, a proper system
of water tariffs has also been lacking. Not only has the rate of collection been low in most
of the irrigation systems but the tariffs themselves have been far from adequate. This can be
seen from the level of O&M costs currently being recovered in the irrigation schemes to be



- 4 -
rehabilitated under the project (between US$20 and 30 per ha), as compared to actual and
future O&M requirements estimated to range between US$63 and US$138 per ha. Another
constraint to effective irrigation within Peru has been the lack of a program to develop good
management techniques and skills within the water user organizations that will enhance the
effective management of the water supply infrastructure and promote sustainable
maintenance. In an attempt to solve these problems, the government has transferred the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the systems to the water user organizations
(WUOs). These WUOs should develop effective programs of maintenance including full cost
recovery, or the rehabilitated systems will soon return to a state of deterioration.
1.12      Another limitation to the development of effective irrigation within Peru has been
the lack of an effective technology transfer mechanism to provide incentives for farmers to
learn about new methods of irrigation and agricultural practices and for the adoption of new
and efficient practices. There is also a recurrent environmental problem of misuse of
agricultural chemicals and subsequent water pollution.
1.13      The Government is presently contemplating measures to develop a system of
water use rights. It has prepared a draft water law that would allow users to be allocated
water rights and to buy and sell them on a free market. The rights could be traded
separately from the land and would be recorded in a separate register. The water rights
could also serve as collateral for loans. The objective of developing this system of water use
rights is to bring about a more efficient allocation and use of water. The improved
incentives to conserve water are also expected to reduce the problem of soil salinity and to
better protect the environment.
D. Environmental Sector
1.14      Despite the early recognition of the need for a central environmental planning
authority dating as far back as 1972, Peru suffers from the absence of such an institution. It
was not until the enactment of Decree Law (D.L.) No. 613 (C6digo del Medio Ambiente) in
1990 in which the National Environmental Agency, Sistema Nacional del Medio Ambiente
(SINAMA) was created that a national coordinating unit was established. However,
responsibility for the environment especially planning and management, remains fragmented.
1.15      In agriculture and renewable natural resources, the Instituto Nacional de
Recursos Naturales (INRENA) has interpreted the environmental code to mean, among other
tasks, the evaluation of the environmental and naturally renewable resources, monitoring and
control of activities in which environmental risk is evident, establishment of effluent
standards for agricultural activities, and the creation of a program to monitor pollution
associated with agriculture activities.
1.16      The long-standing effort to create a central environmental authority may finally
be coming to fruition. At present, there is a proposal in the legislature which calls for the
creation of a Consejo Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). The existing draft
proposal would establish an autonomous agency under the Presidency. Among other
responsibilities the council would be in charge of the developing national environmental
standards, resolving inter-ministerial disputes, coordinating national, regional and local



government actions with respect to the environment and establishing criteria for zoning,
environmental quality and impact assessments.
1.17      At present, there are other indicators of progress in meeting the country's
environmental challenges which have direct relevance to proposed World Bank projects. In
1989, a Comision Nacional composed of the Instituto Nacional de Planificaci4n and other
public and private institutions was created to develop a National Conservation Strategy (NCS)
for the purpose of defining basic policies to guide development planning in promoting the
sustainable development and use of natural resources. One of the priorities identified in the
NCS was the development of an integrated watershed management program. The objectives
of the program include planning and promoting the sustainable development of watersheds
which would include river basin planning, erosion control, rehabilitation of small-and-
medium scale irrigation systems, reforestation, and training and education in watershed
management. A number of other programs could be supported through a watershed approach
including a program of water quality monitoring, pesticide management and regulation, and
control of dumping untreated wastes.
E. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
1.18      This project would be the fifth irrigation project supported by the Bank in Peru.
The first two loans (Loan 114-PE of 1955 and Loan 418-PE of 1965) financed irrigation
works and land settlement in the San Lorenzo area. A third loan in 1986 (Loan 1403-PE)
helped to rehabilitate and reclaim 40,000 ha in four coastal valleys; and the fourth, the
Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1771-PE), supported irrigation
rehabilitation works on 34,000 ha in 1987 (credit suspended in 1987 for non-payment of
arrears). Although the implementation of these projects was rated as satisfactory, cost
recovery was inadequate. As a result, necessary maintenance and repair of irrigation
schemes was indefinitely deferred. Following several years of virtually no public spending
on O&M, by the early nineties, many schemes faced a high risk of failure. Arrangements
for O&M under the current project take this lesson into account and build on the successful
experience of WUOs. The project also includes a major component in the strengthening of
the WUOs in this area, along with the rehabilitation so that the problem should not recur.
Problems with project sustainability encountered in past projects are unlikely to recur, given
the strong commitment to the program as shown by the WUO's willingness to assume full
responsibility for operation and maintenance and the cost of the rehabilitation works. Bank
experience worldwide already shows that decentralization of responsibility to water user
associations, combined with institutional strengthening and incentives to adopt cost-effective
technology, significantly improves water use efficiency, cost recovery and O&M of irrigation
infrastructure. This project's components incorporate this lesson. Additionally, the project
introduces a key innovation - WUOs under the project will assume full responsibility for
rehabilitation investment costs by borrowing from commercial banks, with access to a line of
credit under the project. A similar arrangement has been successful in the Bank supported
Nepal Irrigation Line of Credit project, where participants cover a portion of the investment
costs. More generally, Bank experience demonstrates that, where market-oriented
macroeconomic and financial sector policies are in place, targeted credit can be an effective
and successful development tool. Peru's economic and financial sector reforms, supported
by the Bank and IDB, are exemplary. The current project ensures that subproject selection
will be demand driven and participating banks will provide financing at market interest rates.



- 6 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.1        Project Objectives. The proposed project is in line with the objectives of the
Bank's strategy in Peru of redefining the role and structure of central Govemment institutions
and promoting private sector and sustainable development. This would be accomplished by
supporting agricultural policies and programs to rehabilitate and improve the management
and sustainability of agricultural infrastructure. More specifically, the project would raise
agricultural production and productivity by enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of
existing public irrigation systems. The project will also help to reduce the role of the public
sector in irrigation by: (i) strengthening the private sector through local management
(including (O&M) by the water users' organizations; (ii) creating an Irrigation Rehabilitation
Fund to provide a long-term commercial credit-line to implement irrigation rehabilitation
schemes; and (iii) allowing the WUOs to define their investment priorities for the design and
construction of these schemes. As such, the project emphasizes the Bank's water
management policy through its efforts on decentralization and cost recovery for operation and
maintenance as well as capital investment. To this aim, the project would strengthen the
capabilities of the water users' organizations to assume full responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the systems. Through the development of a water user training and extension
program as well as a program to promote the adoption of innovative technologies for
irrigation, the project would also expand the individual water user's capacity to efficiently
manage his resources.
2.2       Project Description. The project will consist of five components:
(a) rehabilitation of the infrastructure for approximately 25 public irrigation schemes, (65
percent); (b) institutional development and strengthening of water users' organizations and
training of their management in the area of administration, finance, and operation and
maintenance (4 percent); (c) an incentive program for technology improvement, including a
training program for private technicians, extensionists and farmers in irrigation techniques
and practices, fertilization and pesticide management, as well as a pilot matching-grant
program to encourage adoption of modem irrigation technology (24 percent); (e) a nation-
wide emergency dam safety program (5 percent) and (d) project administration and
monitoring (2 percent).
B. Irrigation Rehabilitation Component
2.3       The main component of the project would finance the rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage infrastructure in about 25 schemes or subprojects, covering an estimated area of
over 200,000 ha and reaching over 50,000 farming families. Total investment would be
about US$102 million (base cost), representing some 65 percent of total project costs. As a
major innovative feature, rehabilitation works would be constructed by users who would
repay 100 percent of the investment costs. To this end, the project would fund a credit line
which will be channeled, through COFIDE, a second-tier bank, to retail lenders that would
select the final borrowers (WUOs) and accept the attendant credit risk.
2.4       The rehabilitation component would be implemented on a program-type basis. It
would include a first group of subprojects whose feasibility studies have already been



completed, as well as additional schemes to be prepared before and during project
implementation. To be eligible, these schemes would have to meet a number of technical,
institutional, financial, economic and environmental criteria satisfactory to the PCU and the
first-tier financial institutions (CFIs). At negotiations the Government provided assurance
that financing will only be used to fund those irrigation projects in which the users can
demonstrate that they are able and willing to repay the costs of the project (para. 6. la).
2.5       Feasibility studies were prepared by local consultants, with financial and
technical support from FAO as well as financial support from GTZ and PHRD, and are
available for a first group of 10 subprojects. Out of these ten, the following seven are
planned for implementation in the first year of the project: San Lorenzo (US$5.6 million),
Chancay-Lambayeque (US$7.0 million), Huaral-La Esperanza (US$6.9 million), Santa Rita
de Siguas (US$3.6 million), Yuramayo (US$0.9 million), La Joya Antigua (US$4.4 million
and Huara-Santa Rosa (US$8.2 million).
2.6       The other three subprojects have a number of institutional problems which still
need to be resolved: Chili Regulado (US$2.4 million), Santa-Lacramarca (US$14.1 million)
and Sama (US$1.5 million). These problems are primarily difficulties in land titling within
the projects and organizational problems within competing WUOs. The solution of these
problems is underway and would be completed prior to implementation of these subprojects.
2.7       Feasibility studies were also prepared by a MAG technical team for six
additional rehabilitation subprojects covering a total area of 45,900 ha and at an estimated
cost of US$33 million; some of them could be implemented in the first year of the project;
the six schemes include Chicama, Locumba, Camana, Pisco, Pativilca and Vitor. Most of
the works being considered include the rehabilitation of canals, drains and water intakes.
Detailed descriptions and costs for each sub-component are shown in Annex 2.
C. Institutional Development and Strengthening of Users' Organizations Component
2.8       The proposed project includes a critical component for strengthening the WUOs,
on a nation-wide basis, to obtain full recovery of the cost of operation and maintenance and
assure long-term project sustainability. The cost of the component is estimated at US$6.0
million (base costs). WUOs are now responsible for operating, maintaining and
administering irrigation systems in Peru. Those directly involved in the project will also be
required to implement, either directly or by hiring private contractors, rehabilitation works
for the systems for which they are responsible. Through this component, the project would
strengthen WUOs' capacities in the area of administration (including the calculation and
collection of new tariffs which reflect full cost recovery), finance and, most importantly,
operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems.
2.9       In light of the various activities that WUOs, i.e., Irrigators' Commissions
(Comisiones de Regantes) and Users' Boards (Juntas de Usuarios), have to perform, a four-
year training program has been designed for each of the various groups within these
organizations, namely: (i) organization leaders; (ii) "technical managers" and their
assistants; (iii) extension workers; and (iv) administrative staff.



- 8 -
2.10      The training program will emphasize six important areas: (a) the best techniques
for the planning, management and distribution of water resources; (b) the basic concepts for
the proper maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, including preventive maintenance;
(c) how to achieve sustainable and profitable agriculture, while protecting the environment;
(d) cost recovery policies and water charge rate structures and collection; (e) efficient
administration of financial resources; and (f) construction and contract management
D. Incentive Program for Technology Improvement Component
2.11      This component would promote the adoption of technological innovations among
all irrigation farmers, with a view to achieving greater efficiency in the use of water and soil
resources, thereby enabling farmers to increase their competitiveness on both the domestic
and foreign markets and to improve their income. In order to improve water productivity in
the agricultural sector, farmers need to be made familiar with advanced technology so that
they may adapt it to their production processes. This component would have two sub-
components: (a) training technical specialists (extensionists) and financing their salaries, on a
declining basis, during a three-year period to assist with access to new technology; and (b)
one-time matching grants from the government for part of the investments made by
beneficiary farmers to modernize their irrigation systems. Total base cost of this component
is estimated at US$38.1 million, which includes a contribution from the beneficiaries
equivalent to about US$11 million.
2.12      The first sub-component is a training program which would be put together for
the extension workers who will be responsible for transferring irrigation and drainage
technology to irrigation system users. The subject matter envisaged for the training provides
extensive coverage of most of the know-how that these extension workers should have; it
would also include training on environmental aspects, particularly where the use of
agrochemicals is concerned, along with the mitigation of their environmental impact. In
order to ensure that the trained professionals hired by the user organizations remain, they
will be asked to sign a commitment to work with the hiring organization for a minimum of
five years, or repay the salaries they have received during their training. These extension
workers will be responsible for promoting the upgrading of irrigation technology and also for
disseminating the financial incentive program to all farmers who can participate in this
program, including the poorer farmers who might not otherwise avail themselves of the
program. They will also use the irrigation systems put in place under the program to
promote the adoption of irrigation technology, with the aim of encouraging farmers in the
areas they serve to use more efficient irrigation systems.
2.13      The second sub-component (investment matching grants for the adoption of new
irrigation technology) would provide incentives to boost investment in irrigation technology
improvements. This program's potential beneficiaries would be the owners of irrigated farm
land as well as the farmer organizations or associations that operate irrigation systems
serving their members' farms and that are interested in modernizing in order to achieve more
efficient use of water and soil resources. To ensure that all farmers are provided equal
access to these grants, the funds made available will be allocated proportionately to the
irrigated areas in the main valleys of the coast. In addition, to assure a greater impact upon
more poverty-stricken farmers, the program will provide up to 80 percent matching grant to



- 9 -
farmers with less than 15 hectares and a grant of no more than 50 percent to farmers with
more than 15 hectares of land.
2.14       Since this program's aim is to promote improved irrigation technologies, only
projects on land with water already supplied to the farm site will receive grants. The grant
will be paid on the cost of studies to establish improved irrigation methods and also on the
works and equipment needed to apply irrigation water and agricultural chemicals, including
the necessary pumping equipment, in cases where pressurization is needed. In light of the
market costs of the most common irrigation systems, such as sprinklers, gated pipes, drip
and micro-irrigation, including pressurization and delivery of agricultural chemicals via
irrigation systems, a ceiling on investment per hectare will be set at US$5,000, since higher
investments will be difficult to recover. There will also be a ceiling on investment of
US$150,000 per individual project or US$300,000 for projects undertaken by farmer's
organizations or associations. To qualify for grants under the program, farmers will be
required to participate in a competitive selection process, based upon technical criteria and
cost-sharing capacity, organized by the PCU and designed to ensure that all farmers groups
can benefit from the proposed grant scheme (para. 6. lb).
2.15       The maximum subsidy percentages are expected to gradually decrease over time,
as the proportion paid by farmers increases. Since the competition rules will take into
account the aim of achieving greater farmer participation in project costs, demand is also
expected to increase as this type of incentive becomes known to farmers. Farmers
benefitting from this program will be required to make access to the improved irrigation
systems available to the region's extension specialists for use in demonstrations to other
farmers (para. 6.1 c).
2.16       The grant will be paid once the works have been fully constructed and delivered
to the satisfaction of the PCU and the Bank. To assist competing farmers and to enable them
to secure at least a partial bank loan or to pay for part of the cost of the irrigation
improvements, the PCU will award them "Subsidy Certificates for Modernized Irrigation"
upon receipt of notification that they are winners of the auction. These certificates will
become valid as soon as the works have been accepted to the PCU's satisfaction. The
approval by the Bank of the final version of the Operational Manual for the Incentives Fund
will be a condition of disbursements for the incentive program component (para. 6.4a).
E. Dam Safety Emergency Program
2.17       This component refers to the development of an emergency rehabilitation
program for critical problems with selected dams within the Pacific basin. The base cost of
this component is estimated at US$7.0 million. It includes testing and necessary
rehabilitation of control equipment, valves, gates, low-level drains and other outlet works,
and generators in four major dams (Poechos, San Lorenzo, Tinajones and El Fraile) as well
as completion of earth stabilization works at El Fraile dam. Storage reservoirs are an
essential component of irrigated agriculture in Peru, and most of the existing irrigation
schemes depend on them for their water supply. INADE, under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, will cause the dams under the project, after their rehabilitation, to be periodically
inspected (para. 6.le).



- 10-
2.18      A study was carried out during the preparation of the Irrigation Susbsector
Project with the objective of evaluating present operating conditions of eight major dams in
Peru. The analysis, which emphasized those aspects considered as high risk for the safety of
the structures, also included a proposal for the development of a nationwide dam safety
program (see Annex 6). A Dam Safety supervision committee has been already established
in INADE to implement the dam safety emergency component.
F. Project Administration and Monitoring Component
2.19      A financially autonomous Project Coordinating Unit would be established in
MAG under supervision of the Minister of Agriculture. The PCU would be responsible for
the intersectoral coordination arrangements and the implementation of the institutional
development, the incentives program, and the training components. The PCU would also
evaluate the irrigation schemes submitted by the WVUOs, on the basis of technical, financial,
economic, and environmental pre-established eligibility criteria.
2.20      The project would use an information system managed by the PCU for
monitoring the implementation of irrigation subprojects and assess progress in achieving
other project objectives. The development of the system entails the creation of a base line
information data and the procedures to capture key technical, financial and operational
information. The PCU will design and establish the information and monitoring system
before loan effectiveness (para 6.3e). Total base cost of this component, including the PCU
costs and the monitoring system, is estimated at US$2.9 million.
G. Project Environmental Aspects
2.21      As the Irrigation Subsector Project involves only the rehabilitation of small-to
medium-sized infrastructure of existing irrigation schemes, it is unlikely that it will have any
negative environmental impacts. All the irrigation schemes considered for rehabilitation
work have been in operation for many years and face a range of environmental issues which
include: low irrigation efficiency, high water loss, waterlogging and salinization, water
quality issues and improper use of agrochemicals. Without the proposed rehabilitation work
the environmental consequences of these irrigation developments would tend to increase since
the infrastructure will continue to deteriorate and no other financial resources are available to
address environmental issues. The project, on the other hand, would bring a range of
beneficial environmental impacts since it would promote efficient water use by reducing
water losses, improve drainage systems which have a direct impact on waterlogging and soil
salinity, and address a broad range of environmental issues, including the use of fertilizers
and pesticides, in its training component.
2.22      The future Water Management Project under preparation by the Government of
Peru would address most of the environmental impacts resulting from irrigation developments
in the coastal valleys of Peru which cannot be fully addressed without a broad
multi-disciplinary approach which would deal with environmental issues at a watershed scale.
Such an approach would have to focus on integrated watershed management. Its successful
implementation would further necessitate the support of a national program (framework)
designed to address environmental protection nationwide. Such a broad-based program
would allow for a better assessment and evaluation of the range and magnitude of



- 11 -
environmental impacts associated with irrigation developments in Peru. The knowledge that
will be gained during the analysis of existing irrigation systems as part of the proposed
Irrigation Subsector Project should greatly assist in such future environmental planning.
2.23      Although it is beyond the scope of the Project to address the entire spectrum of
existing environmental problems, some specific measures will be adopted to minimize
environmental degradation within the subproject's areas. The Project will focus on
improving on current patterns of agro-chemicals use through the development of appropriate
training modules for inclusion in the project's training componen.s. The reduction of current
water losses throughout the conveyance systems, associated with the utilization of improved
irrigation technologies such as sprinkler and drip irrigation, will reduce the incidence of
water logging and salinization.



- 12 -
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Summary of Project Costs
3.1         The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$172.4 million, including physical
and price contingencies. More specifically, base costs are estimated as follows: (a)
US$102.4 million for Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure; (b) US$6.0
million for Institutional Development; (c) US$38.1 million for the Incentive Program for
Technology Improvement; (d) US$2.9 million for Project Administration; and (e) US$7.0
million for the Emergency Dam Safety Program. Estimated local and foreign costs, as well
as physical and price contingencies, are shown below. Note that, since costs have been
estimated in US$ equivalent, price contingencies represent only foreign inflation estimated in
accordance with the Bank's manufacturing unit value (MUV) index (on average 2.7 percent
p.a. between 1994 and 1999).
Summary of Proiect Costs
Component                    Local  |  Foreign      L Total               % Total
I      ._________  I _________  Foreign  Base  Cost
(US$ million equivalent}
A.   Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage  89.1        13.3     102.4        13            65
Infrastructure
B.   Institutional Development/Strengthening     3.5         2.5       6.0        42             4
of WUOs
C.   Incentive Program for Technology
Improvement
1. Training and Extension Services        10.3         2.6       12.9        20            8
2. Incentives Fund                        10.1        15.1       25.2        60           16
D.   Project Administration and Monitoring       2.5         0.4       2.9        13             2
E.    Emergency Dam Safety Program               4.2         2.8       7.0        40             5
Base Cost                                      119.7        36.7     156.4        20           100
Physical Contingencies                           5.6         1.2       6.8        17             4
Price Contingencies                              7.4         1.8       9.2        20             6
Total Project Cost                             132.7        39.7     172.4        23           110



- 13 -
B. Project Financing
3.2        A Bank loan of US$85 million will help to finance foreign and local costs
amounting to about to 49 percent of total project cost. OECF is expected to provide a loan
of about US$60 million. The contribution of project beneficiaries will amount to US$11
million, while the remaining US$16.4 million will be provided by the Government. The
parallel cofinancing funds will be used to finance specific irrigation rehabilitation works
under the project. Farmers will partially finance the on-farm investments under the
incentives program for technology improvement. GOP financing would likely to be used for
the incentives fund sub-component and the project administration component. Loan
effectiveness would be conditioned upon the allocation by the Government of adequate funds
from its proposed fiscal year budget to be made available to MAG to implement the first
year project activities (para. 6.3a).
C. Cost Recovery and Water Charges
3.3        The existing legislation (Supreme Decree 003-90-AG, 1990) defines two classes
of water tariffs, one for agricultural use and the other for non-agricultural use. In general,
these tariffs do not reflect the actual cost of water. In the non-agricultural sectors, they are
calculated on the basis of the general unit tax, Unidad Impositiva Tributaria (UIT), of which
they represent very small proportions (from 0.05 percent for water supply, fisheries and
energy to 0. 1 percent for industries and mines).
3..4       In the agricultural sector, the volumetric water tariff includes three components:
(i) a so-called water user's association component (ingresos de la junta de usuarios) to meet
their O&M expenses, to pay for the conservation and improvement of common irrigation
infrastructure and to finance the operating budget of the Administrador Tecnico; (ii) a water
levy or canon de agua component, representing 10 percent of the first component. Revenues
from this levy are to go to the autonomous water basin authorities; and (iii) an
"amortization" component, to recover the cost of public investment in storage infrastructure
for irrigation purposes. This component will also represent only 10 percent of the water user
association component, except when otherwise determined by "special" project authorities.
3.5        Irrigation water tariffs are proposed by the Administrador Tecnico to the water
user association and, in case of disagreement, are decided by an ad hoc, informal committee.
Except in a very few cases, these tariffs are unrealistically low (US$20-30 per ha)y' and do
not provide for proper O&M of the irrigation systems (the "amortization" component is
usually not recovered). Collection has generally been unsatisfactory, due to the fact that: in
5          It is estimated that this would require ahout US$75 per ha for cornmon irrigation infrastructure and S45 per ha for
diversion structures.



- 14 -
the past, the irrigated systems were inadequately maintained by the Government, so farmers
did not see why they should pay for 0 & M, (responsibility has only recently been
transferred to water user associations and several of these lack experience as yet).
Moreover, the perception of the State as provider, frequent conflicted over the use of a
resource which was not always available and minimal penalties in case of default. On
average, it is estimated that 20 percent of farmers do not pay their water dues.
3.6        In addition, special water levies (cuotas) are collected by the association or
irrigator commission as mandatory contributions from water users for specific works or
activities in the irrigation system or sub-system. According to the existing law, these cuotas
are used only to meet extraordinary expenses. In reality, they often constitute the only
means for an irrigator or canal commission to operate and maintain its canal or subsector.
Since the transfer of irrigation infrastructure O&M by the Government to water users in
1989, the payment of canal commission-controlled cuotas has helped to improve O&M of
canals or specific parts of irrigation systems.
3.7        The system of low collection and poor maintenance has essentially been that of a
vicious circle with the one leading to the other. For their part, low water tariffs have
resulted in: (i) a lack of financial resources to operate and maintain the irrigation systems
adequately, so that most of the irrigation systems are in an advanced stage of deterioration
(some with a high risk of collapse); (ii) excessive water consumption at farm level due both
to the lack of any price incentive to use water more efficiently, and to high conveyance
losses; (iii) undue preference for crops (such as sugarcane and rice) with large water
requirements; and (iv) limited incentives toward more efficient irrigation techniques such as
sprinkler or drip irrigation.
3.8        More recent Government policy in the irrigation subsector has focused on
improved efficiency, calling for: (i) complete take-over of responsibility by water users for
O&M of their irrigation systems, and (ii) recovery of 100 percent of investment costs in
deferred maintenance works, including for rehabilitation and modernization of existing
irrigation schemes.
3.9        The above policy statements have met with enthusiasm by farmers, who are
anxious to participate in the financing of works needed to restore the old irrigation systems
which they have been using under ever-worsening conditions. Encouraged by prospects of
financial support from Government, some of these farmers, through their water user
associations, have already contributed to the implementation of feasibility studies for the
rehabilitation of their irrigation systems. To finance rehabilitation costs, farmers' access to
credit is to be facilitated and conditions of this credit eased by allowing reasonable grace
periods for loan repayment.
3.10       The Government of Peru is strongly of the opinion that 100 percent recovery of
the total investment for rehabilitation must be obtained from the WUOs. Consequently, the
project is structured to attempt to do this. However, depending on the system and the nature



- 15 -
and scope of the works required, small farmers under a few schemes may not always be able
to repay the investment costs of rehabilitation, in addition to higher O&M costs. In these
cases, a system of cross subsidiation by the more profitable farmers within the same WUO
will ensure full cost recovery.
3.11      While 100 percent recovery of these investment costs is possible, given the fact
that real guarantees will be used as collateral, it is much more important that recovery of
O&M costs on a sustainable basis be achieved. The future sustainability of the WUOs and
their ability to successfully function in a decentralized, self-governing manner will rely upon
their ability to collect the full cost of ongoing O&M including sinking funds for the
replacement of electrical and hydromechanical equipment in future years. The development
of farmer-controlled WUO's to collect and manage the assessments and that are responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the systems will be facilitated by the institutional
component of the project.



- 16 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. National Level Organization and Management
4.1       A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Agriculture will be
primarily responsible for the project's organization and management aspects, including
supervising and ensuring effective implementation of the project's components. This unit,
reporting directly to the Minister and Vice-Minister, would, however, be technically,
administratively and financially autonomous. The Project Coordination Unit would be
created, either by the Law for restructuring the agricultural sector currently under
consideration by Congress or by a new law specific to the project. It would be established
for the project period of five years, and its personnel, under the direction of a Project
Coordinator, would be recruited for fixed periods of time according to project needs. The
PCU would include: a technical unit headed by a water resource management specialist and
comprised of a civil engineer (hydraulics and irrigation systems), an agricultural engineer, an
agronomist and an economist; a financial unit (two professionals); a unit specifically in
charge of supervising the training programs (with a lead coordinator and his assistant, plus
one coordinator each for support to water user organizations for irrigation technology and for
farmer training); and an administrative unit (one professional). In addition, support staff
(five) would be required.
4.2        The PCU's principal functions would be as follows: coordination with the
various executing agencies (COFIDE and the WUOs for the project's rehabilitation
component NGOs and external consultants for the training and extension components and
INADE for the Dam Safety Emergency Program) technical and financial supervision of
project implementation by these agencies (while the PCU would be responsible for overall
coordination and supervision, COFIDE, in coordination with and under the regulations
established by the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance, would perform its normal role of
monitoring first-tier institutions to which it lends); selection and recruitment of consultants to
prepare feasibility studies for additional rehabilitation subprojects or for specific aspects such
as legal expertise and audit; supervision of consultants' work and evaluation of feasibility
studies; monitoring and evaluation of project activities; and supervision of a three-year
technical maintenance audit of the subprojects subsequent to rehabilitation to assure their
sustainability. Before effectiveness of the loan MAG would have staffed the PCU, with staff
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.3b).
4.3       Execution of Part A of the project would be responsibility of COFIDE. Its role
would be primarily to monitor the overall performance and repayment capacity of CFIs and
to supervise the use of project funds. Specifically, COFIDE would: (i) qualify and monitor
the performance of CFIs according to the established qualification criteria;
(ii) monitor compliance with the provisions of the Credit Manual; and (iii) allocate, disburse,
repay and account for project funds. To this aim, COFIDE would: (i) ensure that subloans



- 17 -
shall be made in accordance with the Credit Manual approved by the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) within six months after the project's closing date, COFIDE and MAG would prepare and
execute a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the future operation of part A of the project.
(Para. 6.2a).
B. Management of Water User Organizations
4.4        Water users within each of the country's 97 irrigation districts are grouped into
Juntas de Usuarios (JU) which are comprised of various irrigators' commissions (Comisiones
de Regantes, CRs) corresponding to irrigation "sectors" or "subsectors". Both the JUs and
CRs have legal identity, and are entitled to establish O&M plans, operate and maintain
irrigation infrastructure, and contract loans to carry out works and studies. Collection of
water tariffs and administration of the district's funds are the responsibility of the JU. Each
Junta is obliged by law to hire a technical manager with at least five years of professional
experience in irrigation systems operations and soil and water resource management. Most
of these WUOs are technically and administratively weak and not all employ an adequately
experienced technical manager. They will require considerable institutional strengthening in
technical, administrative and financial skills, particularly in the areas of construction and
financial management, and systems operation and maintenance.
4.5       In practice, the situation is rather complex. Some of the irrigation schemes
considered for rehabilitation under the project have several Juntas, some having been
established by different groups of water users within the same irrigation district. This
practice, which clearly contradicts the law, leads to frequent conflicts among users. In some
cases, the legal existence of two Juntas (e.g., in Santa Lacramarca) has eventually been
recognized by court decision. Conflicts also arise between a Junta and its irrigators'
commissions, some of the latter being better organized and more dynamic than the Junta
itself (e.g., La Esperanza in Huaral, north of Lima).
4.6        The WUOs involved in the project's rehabilitation component will be responsible
for the implementation of all rehabilitation work under the Project using funds borrowed
from the first-tier lenders (using irrigated land under the system, or any other real assets, as
collateral). These WUOs will be responsible for contracting the rehabilitation or performing
the work by force account. They will be responsible for procurement and disbursement of
funds to pay for the work as well as the management of the construction. It is anticipated
that most WUOs will use expert consultants for the actual management of rehabilitation work
under the project. The WUOs will be fully committed to financing 100 percent of the
rehabilitation costs and to adequately operating and maintaining the irrigation infrastructure
and will sign collateralized a credit contract with the financial intermediaries, requiring each
to fully service its debt. Subloans will not be released without such a contract.



- 18 -
C. Loan Funding for the Rehabilitation of Economically Viable Schemes
4.7       Government would create a Rehabilitation Fund to provide a long-term-
commercial-credit line to implement irrigation rehabilitation schemes. In this context, the
WUOs would be allowed to define their investment priorities for the design and construction
of these schemes. The Government would also provide technical support to the WUOs in the
preparation of their credit applications. This should ensure that schemes to be financed will
have adequate financial (as well as economic) rates of return.
4.8       As noted earlier, approximately US$102 million (base costs) would be utilized
under the Project for the rehabilitation of about 25 existing irrigation schemes. COFIDE - a
government owned second-tier financial institution- would be responsible for the management
of the Rehabilitation Fund. To this aim, it would sign an Agreement with the Ministry of
Economy, as the Government of Peru's financial agent. COFIDE's role would primarily be
to monitor the overall performance of Commercial Financial Institutions, and to supervise the
use of the Fund assets. COFIDE is financially sound and has adequate selection procedures,
as well as organizational and staff capacity to carry out these responsibilities. Signature of
the Agreement between MEF and COFIDE, including the Credit Operational Manual and the
final version of the subsidary participation agreement between COFIDE and the CFIs, would
be a condition for loan effectiveness (para. 6.3c).
4.9       CFIs that satisfy creditworthiness criteria, and comply with prudential regulations
of the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance, would be eligible to drawn on the
Rehabilitation Fund, after entering a Subsidiary Participation Agreement with COFIDE.
COFIDE would charge the financial intermediaries no more than the average cost of funds of
CFIs, as defined in the Credit Operating Manual, and no less than the cost of funds to the
Borrower under the project, plus a commission (0.5 percent) to cover administrative costs.
4.10      The Rehabilitation Fund under the project, would be exclusively applied to
finance 100 percent of rehabilitation subloans in US dollars. The funds required for various
investments in irrigation rehabilitation under the Project would be channeled from COFIDE
to CFIs, which will on-lend 100 percent of the required investment to the WUOs, at
commercial rates. During loan negotiations, it was agreed that the proposed mechanism for
financing rehabilitation will be evaluated by the Bank, the OECF, and the Government, as
soon as the first US$10 million of the loan funds are committed, but no later that June 30,
1998, and adjustments satisfactory to the Bank, will be made to perfect such mechanism
(para. 6.1g).
4.11      The recipient of the credit for irrigation rehabilitation investments would use real
guarantees as collateral for such credit. The CFIs assuming the lending risk would be
responsible for determining the acceptability of such collateral in each case. In most cases
the collateral would be land, although alternative collateral acceptable to the Superintendency
of Banks and Insurance would be eligible. To the extent feasible, complementary collateral



- 19 -
water use concessions may be acceptable in the future once the new water law is passed by
the Congress.
4.12      Participating CFIs would repay COFIDE in accordance with amortization
schedules with WIUOs, and COFIDE in turn would transfer the Government what it recovers
form CFIs. The Government would assume currency risks associated with the Bank loan
(e.g., basket), and transfer to COFIDE in US dollars, while the CFIs would borrow US
dollars from COFIDE and relend the same to WUOs, which would take a US dollar - Nuevo
Sol currency risk. CFIs would bear the full credit risk on their loans to WUOs.
4.13      Eligible expenditures would include irrigation/drainage infrastructure, machinery
and equipment, preparation of detailed construction designs, and supervision of construction.
Eligibility for financing under the Fund would exclude transfer of assets such as land or farm
purchases, or refinancing of existing indebtedness. The Credit Operating Manual would
describe the eligibility of borrowers, the procedures for loan applications, the role of CFIs in
investment evaluation, and the disbursement procedures. COFIDE would not make the first
disbursement until a WUO has signed a subloan agreement with a CFI and a construction
contract for the works. (The details of the on-lending arrangements are discussed in
Annex 5).
4.14      The issue regarding the clarification and registration of land titles within the
subproject areas needs to be resolved to the extent that the CFIs are satisfied as to the
adequacy of the collateral provided by the borrowing WUOs and their members. These land
titling and registration issues will be resolved under an IDB loan, already Board approved,
which will support recent Government reforms, including new legislation designed to unify
existing land registries, and to ensure simplified land registration procedures.
4.15      In coordination with the PCU, MEF will monitor the performance of COFIDE in
managing the rehabilitation fund. To ensure that WUOs are maintaining the systems that are
being rehabilitated with this loan in an adequate and sustainable manner and that they are
collecting an acceptable water charge to recover the cost of O&M, the PCU would be
responsible for hiring an independent technical auditor to monitor the O&M status of the
subprojects on an on-going basis. This auditor (probably an engineering consulting firm)
would review the irrigation infrastructure of the subproject every three years to determine
that the ongoing operation and maintenance status is current and satisfactory and to
recommend needed corrective actions. The WUO would then be responsible for complying
with the auditor's recommendations within one year following the issuance of its report
(para. 6.2i).



- 20 -
D. Accounts and Audits
4.16      The PCU would maintain separate project accounts to record expenditures made
under the project and for the special account, using a plan of accounts acceptable to the
Bank. COFIDE would also maintain separate accounts for operations cofinanced with Bank
funds. First-tier lending institutions would maintain records adequate to reflect their
operations and their financial situation, in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting principles consistently applied and properly audited based upon international
standards. During loan negotiations, it was agreed by the Government that: (i) the PCU
project accounts would be audited according to appropriate principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the auditor's report would include a separate opinion regarding
the special account and the reliability of SOEs established to support withdrawals requests for
loan funds, as well as a management report focusing on overall institutional performance and
flow of funds efficiency under the project; and (iii) the audit reports would be submitted to
the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year (paras. 6. li to 6. lk). During loan
negotiations it was agreed by COFIDE that: (i) COFIDE's project accounts and financial
statements would be audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) it would furnish to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of each year, the auditor's report in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) it would furnish to the Bank any other
information concerning said records, account and financial statements, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request (para. 6.2b). During negotiations, it was agreed that the
terms of reference for selection and contracting of the auditors would be in accordance with
Bank requirements and that those presented by COFIDE were, in principle, acceptable. (para
6.11). The plan of accounts and accounting procedures for the PCU and COFIDE would
have been made operational before loan effectiveness (para 6.3d).
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      The project would use an information system for monitoring the implementation
of the large number of subprojects scattered across the peruvian coast. The monitoring plan,
includes project performance indicators and targets, which would serve as the basis for
overall monitoring of other project activities as well. During loan negotiations, the
Government agreed that the PCU: (i) will prepare and submit for Bank's approval, not later
that December 31, each year, an annual operating plan (POA), and (ii) will establish within
the PCU and thereafter maintain during the period of execution of the project, a
comprehensive information and monitoring system, satisfactory to the Bank and will issue
within three months of each project semester, semi-annual reports on project implementation
progress which will be submitted to the Bank; through the Minister of Agriculture (paras.
6. ln and 6. lo). Loan effectiveness would be conditioned upon making operational the
agreed management information system for the project, at the PCU level (para. 6.3e).



- 21 -
4.18      Under normal circumstances, the Bank would undertake at least two missions
annually to review project implementation performance. At least one of these would be used
to review and establish annual investment plans and work programs. Additionally, in order
to perfect the mechanism for financing rehabilitation, an evaluation of the performance of the
credit line would be carried out by the Bank, the OECF, and the Government, as soon as the
first US$10 million of the loan funds are committed, but no later than June 30, 1998. (para.
4.10). The PCU would furnish to the Bank, for its approval, not later than six months after
the closing date a plan for the future operation of the project, and that thereafter, it would
carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency (para. 6. lp)
F. Procurement
4.19      For the rehabilitation component the PCU would ascertain that all procurement
of rehabilitation works and equipment by private entrepreneurs will be undertaken by the
WUOs, in accordance with established commercial practices which have been reviewed and
found acceptable to the Bank, ensuring high quality and competitive price. Contracts will be
awarded based on the comparison of at least three proposals from eligible bidders.
However, all rehabilitation contracts for civil works larger than US$5.0 million, and
contracts for goods and equipment above US$250,000, would be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. The technical staff of
the WUOs would be assisted by the PCU in the implementation of their procurement
process. Irrespective of the amount of the contracts, the documentation of the first contracts
for construction of works and acquisition of equipment to be financed by each commercial
bank would be subject to prior Bank review.
4.20      On-farm irrigation equipment under the Matching Grant Program for Technology
Improvement will be also procured by private farmers or farmer's organizations, in packages
as large as possible, following local established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank,
and would be awarded on the basis of comparison of bids from at least three eligible
suppliers.
4.21      The rest of the project components would involve public procurement and would
be implemented by INADE (Dam Safety Program) and the PCU, contracts for civil works
larger than US$3 million, and contracts for goods and equipment above US$250,000 would
be procured through International Competitive Biddings (ICB) following Bank guidelines. In
the procurement of goods and works through ICB, the WUOs and the public agencies will
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank. Other contracts for civil
works (up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$3.4 million), and goods (up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.4 million) would be procured following local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with standard bidding documents agreed
with the Bank. Miscellaneous equipment and materials required by the project, totalling
some US$0.6 million, and estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract, would be
awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of price proposals invited from at least



- 22 -
three suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Guidelines for
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency
shall apply for the selection and contracting of consulting services, totalling some 115 man-
years for technical assistance, training and special studies. Public civil works contracts
estimated to cost over US$3 million, goods over US$250,000 and consultant contracts above
US$50,000, for individual consultants, and above US$100,000 for consulting firms would be
subject to prior Bank review of procurement documentation. With these thresholds, prior
Bank review would involve about 30 contracts over a period of about five years and is
expected to cover about 50 percent of total contracts with Bank fnancing. During
supervision, the Bank would randomly check contracts not subject to procurement. During
negotiations, the Government would provide assurances that the procurement procedures
described above would be followed and that established commercial practices in the sector,
consistent with Bank basic procurement principles, will be used. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in the table below.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Project Element       ICB        LCB         Other      N.B.F.Y       Total
Civil Works
WUOs contracts            12.5                   41.1         60.1         113.7
(12.5)                  (38.5)                   (51.0)
Public contracts                      3.4                                   3.4
(3.4)                                 (3.4)
Goods and Equipment
WUOs contracts            0.5                     15.3        11.5         27.3
(0.5)                   (9.4)                    (9.9)
Public contracts           2.7         1.4         0.7                      4.8
(2.7)       (1.4)       (0.7)                    (4.8)
Consultants and Other                              13.8                      13.8
Services                                         (13.8)                    (13.8)
Operating Costs                                     9.4                       9.4
(2.1)                    (2.1)
Total                      15.7         4.8        80.3        71.6         172.4
(15.7)      (4.8)      (64.6)                    (85.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
2 N. B. F: Not Bank Financed. To be procured in accordance to cofinancier regulations, in conformity
with para. 1.4 of World Bank Guidelines.



- 23 -
G. Disbursements
4.22      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows: (a) 95 percent
against project expenditures made for the subloans under the rehabilitation component; (b)
100 percent for consultants and 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local costs, for
goods under the Institutional Development component; (c) 100 percent of foreign and 85
percent of local costs for goods, 100 percent for consultants, 40 percent for extension
services and 50 percent for matching grants under the Incentive Program for Technology
Improvement component; (d) 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local costs for goods;
100 percent for consultants; and 75 percent up to US$350,000, 50 percent between
US$350,000 and US$700,000 and 25 percent between US$700,000 and US$1,020,000 for
operating costs under the Administration and Monitoring component, and (e) 100 percent of
foreign and 75 percent of local costs for civil works, 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent
of local costs for goods, and 100 percent for consultants under the Dam Safety component.
Disbursements for civil works contracts not exceeding US$3 million, contracts for goods and
equipment not exceeding US$250,000, and consultant contracts below US$50,000 for
individual consultants and below US$100,000 for consulting firms, training and technical
assistance costs, and operating expenses would be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) prepared by either the executing agency or WUOs with technical support from the
PCU. In the case of initial payments required by contractors to begin implementation of
works under the rehabilitation component, disbursements would be made against contracts
signed between WUOs and commercial banks. Supporting documentation for such
expenditures and contracts would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be made available
for inspection by Bank supervision missions.



- 24 -
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS
(Expressed in US$ equivalent)
CATEGORY               AMOtNT of          % of Expenditures to be Financed
the Loan
Allocated
Subloans                           46,300,000    95 % of amount disbursed by COFIDE under
Subloans
Goods                               4,170,000   100% of foreign expenditures and 85 % of local
expenditures
Consultants' Services              13,030,000                                    100%
Agricultural extension services under  2,730,000                                  40%
Part C of the Project
Matching Grand under Part C of the  7,300,000                                     50%
Projec
Operating expenses under Part D of  1,020,000   75% up to $350,000 equivalent; 50% thereafter
the Project                                     up to an aggregate of $700,000 equivalent; and
25% thereafter
Civil works under Part E of the     2,400,000   100 % of foreign expenditures and 75 % of local
Project                             _                                      expenditures
Unallocated                         8,050,000
Total                 85,000,000
4.23       In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, two Special Accounts in US dollars
would be established in commercial Banks acceptable to the Bank. The first one would
cover COFIDE's expenditures and would be opened with an initial deposit of US$3.0
million. The second one would cover PCU's expenditures and would be opened with an
initial deposit of US$1.5 million. The amounts deposited in the special accounts could be
increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project execution. The Bank would
replenish both Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible
expenditures at the request of the PCU on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Disbursements are expected to occur over about a six-year period, as shown in the estimated
disbursement schedule (Annex 13).
H. Retroactive Financing
4.24       The Government of Peru has requested retroactive financing up to an amount of
US$500,000 to finance expenditures in respect to the institutional strengthening program to
be executed by the PCU. Because of the immediate need to carry out this program,
retroactive financing, would be limited to costs incurred prior to the date of the loan
Agreement. These funds would be used to fund consultant services and operating expenses,



- 25 -
and would be conditioned on the application of the World Bank's procurement guidelines for
the procurement of goods and for the contracting of consultants and services.
5. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.1        The Project's main benefits would be: (a) increased agricultural productivity and
production through increased efficiency in the use of water and agricultural inputs such as
fertilizers and pesticides; (b) increases and greater stability in incomes for project
beneficiaries; (c) improved conservation and management of water resources; (d) sustainable
O&M of water storage, delivery and drainage systems on a full cost-recovery basis; and (e)
sustainable infrastructure development by strengthening the private sector through promotion
of local water use management and private financing. There will also be some associated,
indirect, general benefits such as improved flood control, environmental enhancement and
improved publicly used roads.
5.2        More specifically, by rehabilitating an estimated 25 existing irrigation schemes,
the project would increase the availability of water to project beneficiaries which would help
to: (i) raise incomes by an estimated 30 percent for project beneficiaries!'; (ii) increase
water use efficiency by an estimated 10-15 percent for project beneficiaries; (iii) increase
irrigated areas and agricultural productivity by an estimated 20-50 percent; (iv) as a result of
the training and incentives programs, enhance the institutional, technological, administrative,
and O&M capabilities of water users and their representative organizations.
5.3        In addition, rehabilitation of existing schemes will significantly reduce water
losses and improve water conservation, thereby improving the environment. Training
oriented towards more efficient use of pesticides and fertilizers should also alleviate
deteriorated environmental conditions. Finally, the project will reduce the Government's
subsidy role in the irrigation sector and encourage increased private sector participation on
two fronts: (i) design, construction, supervision, administration and maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) expanded extension of formal credit in long-term irrigation
and agriculture sector investments.
B. Economic Analysis
5.4        While ten subprojects have already been identified and feasibility studies
prepared for them, it is anticipated that under the project an additional 15 subprojects will be
undertaken during project implementation. As such, the project is somewhat unique relative
to more traditional irrigation projects. Consequently, financial and economic analysis has
only been carried out for the first ten subproject areas on expenditures covering the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure. Individual financial rates of return for
subprojects range from 12-50 percent, while the overall return is around 36 percent. In
general, given Peru's improved macroeconomic situation and the existence of few significant
financial price distortions, the resulting economic rates of return are similar to the financial
3 See Financial and Economic Analysis Annex for details.



- 26 -
rates of return. Individual economic rates of return range from 18-50 percent with an overall
return of about 39 percent.
5.5        Sensitivity analyses have also been carried out for the referenced ten subprojects.
The analysis tests the scheme's viability under adverse scenarios. Switching values have
been used to determine the percentage of changes in key variables required to reduce the
ERR to the opportunity cost of capital. The sensitivity of individual schemes to changes in
benefits and costs varies significantly due to the relative diversity of the schemes and their
specific cropping patterns. In general, the results show that the schemes are relatively
insensitive to cost overruns and reduced benefit from lower production. The schemes are
only slightly more sensitive to decreases in benefits due to commodity price reductions.
Such relative insensitivity is the result of farm models being prepared with conservative
production assumptions and considerations of market demand, which allowed for a narrower
range of sensitivity tests. Additionally, historical trends strongly suggest that the rained
water supply estimated under the subprojects is virtually guaranteed. Finally, delays in
implementing the rehabilitation works will not be a major consideration since the works are
generally not complicated and their investment costs are relatively small. (Details of
financial and economic analysis are provided in Annex 9).
C. Project Risks
5.6        There is a risk that first-tier lender institutions will participate only partially in
the financing of the subprojects, thus delaying rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes.
Inefficient State-owned development banks have kept these lenders out of the sector for
almost thirty years and many do not have experience with group lending, preferring to
concentrate their operations with a few select clients. Continuing improvements in macro-
economic conditions and Bank and IDB supported reforms in the financial sector, which will
increasingly allow more efficient institutions to compete more aggressively for financing such
as that proposed under the project, will help attract commercial lenders. Moreover, after the
first year of implementation the mechanism for financing rehabilitation could be perfected
after its performance evaluation by the Bank, the OECF, and the Government.
5.7        The institutional and technical capabilities of the WUOs to organize themselves
to identify and implement the irrigation schemes could affect the speed and quality of project
implementation. To minimize this risk, technical assistance will be provided to strengthen
the WUOs involved in project designs and implementation. Delays in starting project
execution should be averted since final designs for first-year investments were completed
prior to appraisal. The risk that some water users may find difficulties in repaying their
loans will also be minimized by the pressure from other members of the water users
organization. Participating private financial institutions, in combination with the project
coordination unit will also ensure that the proposals for investments under the project are
financially viable. The scope of the MTR will include a performance evaluation of the
irrigation rehabilitation fund and the impact of the rehabilitation works and other project's
components, on both the irrigation system and agricultural production.
5.8        Since formal credit will be extended, real guarantees will be demanded from
WUOs eligible to receive the credit. This will provide a significant incentive for WUOs to
repay the loans for two reasons: (a) land is perhaps their ,nly real immovable asset, and (b)



- 27 -
non-payment of long-term credit, resulting in potential transfer of land ownership, would
reduce access to short-term credit. Furthermore, since loans will be extended to WUOs as a
whole, group pressure will minimize poor repayment by individual members. Barring
unlikely and unforseen significant changes in macroeconomic conditions and or a reversal of
the improvement in real interests rates, it is reasonable then to expect a high rate of recovery
of the investment costs. Considering the importance of land, it is noteworthy that, while
strengthening the regulatory framework is still underway, the Government, backed by IDB
support, has made significant land titling and registration progress to date. Recent legislation
unifies the two existing registries and simplifies related procedures. None of the initial
subprojects have significant land problems and complications for others are being resolved.
5.9       Although some of the WUOs under the first ten subprojects are already
recovering some of the O&M costs, there is a history among WUOs of generally establishing
water tariffs at low levels which do not reflect the real costs of O&M. Full recovery of even
these lower tariffs has generally not been achieved. Major emphasis must be placed upon the
full recovery of O&M costs if the subprojects are to be sustainable over the long term. This
will be achieved through current and ongoing improvements in the regulatory framework.
As the new water law and regulations are put in place in the near future, the water tariff
should more closely reflect the true cost of water use and WUOs would have recourse to
effectively cut off water supply to water users who do not pay the full water tariff.
5.10      Finally, to ensure that WUOs are paying an acceptable water charge for
recovering the cost of O&M, the PCU would be responsible for contracting an independent
technical auditor to monitor O&M completed by WUOs. On a three-year basis, this auditor
(probably an engineering consulting firm) would review the irrigation infrastructure
rehabilitation under the project to determine whether O&M actions have been completed and
recommend needed additions or changes. The WUOs would then be responsible for
complying with the auditor's recommendations within one year following the issuance of its
report. Since works under the rehabilitation component will be implemented within the first
three years of the project, it is not likely that any serious operations and maintenance
problems will arise prior to the end of the overall project implementation period. However,
since the rehabilitated irrigation schemes will have a longer economic life, there will be a
need to ensure that WUOs adequately operate and maintain them well beyond the project
implementation phase. Two elements of project design should help ensure this: (a) WMOs
themselves are financing the rehabilitation - this will give them ample incentive to properly
maintain the rehabilitated schemes; and (b) WUOs will be professionally trained under the
project, especially in operations and maintenance, as well as finance and administration.
Finally, during the course of project supervision, post-project remedies will be considered.
For example, following on the technical auditor arrangements described above, in the event
that the WUO does not comply with auditor recommendations, the PCU or CFIs could be
permitted to comply with the auditor's recommendations by subcontracting a firm(s) to
complete the necessary O&M work. The cost of this work would then be incorporated into
the amortization schedule for the irrigation investment credit.



- 28 -
6. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During loan negotiations, the Bank and the Borrower agreed:
(a)  that financing will be only provided for the rehabilitation of those irrigation
projects in which the users can demonstrate that they are able and willing to
repay the costs of the project (para. 2.4);
(b)  to qualify for subsidies under the incentives matching grant program for adoption
of technological innovation, farmers will be required to participate in a
competitive selection process acceptable to the Bank organized by the PCU and
designed to ensure that all farmer groups can benefit from the proposed Grant
scheme (para. 2.14);
(c)  that farmers benefitting from the incentive program will be required to make
access to the improved irrigation systems available to the region's extension
specialists for use in demonstrations to other farmers (para. 2.15);
(d)  that INADE, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the dams under
the project, after their rehabilitation, to be periodically inspected (para. 2.17);
(e)  that COFIDE would charge the CFIs an adjustable interest rate at prevailing
market rates which will not exceed the average cost of funds of CFIs, as defined
in the Credit Opeating Manual, and not be less than the sum of the interest rate
and other charges on the Bank loan, plus a commision (0.5 percent) to cover
administrative costs. (para. 4.9);
(f)  that the mechanism for financing rehabilitation would be evaluated by the Bank,
the OECF and the Government, as soon as the first US$10 million of the loan
funds are committed, but not after June 30, 1998, and adjustments satisfactory to
the Bank will be made to perfect such mechanism (para. 4.10);
(g)  that each WUO under the project will be responsible for complying with the
O&M technical auditor's recommendations within one year following the
issuance of the audit report (para. 4.15);
(h)  that PCU accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (para. 4.16);
(i)  that the auditor's report would include a separate opinion regarding the special
account, and the reliability of SOEs established to support withdrawals request
for loan funds (para. 4.16);
(j)  that the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.16);



- 29 -
(k)  the plan account and accounting procedures for the PCU and on the terms of
reference for selection of the auditors will be in accordance with Bank
requirements (para 4.16);
(1)  on the monitoring plan, including project performance indicators and targets
(para. 4.17);
(m)  that PCU will prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than December 31 each
year, project annual operating plans (para. 4.17);
(n)  that PCU will establish within the PCU and thereafter maintain during the period
of execution of the project, a monitoring system, acceptable to the Bank, and
will submit to the Bank within three months of each project semester, semi-
annual reports on project implementation progress (para. 4.17);
(o) that MAG would furnish to the Bank, based on guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, not later than six months after the closing date a plan for the future
operation of the project and exchange views with the Bank on said plan
(para. 4.18).
6.2 During loan negotiations, COFIDE agreed:
(a)  that: (i) it would ensure that subloans shall be made in accordance with the
Credit Manual approved by the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) within six months
after the project's closing date, COFIDE and MAG would prepare a plan, based
on guidelines acceptable to the Bank, for the future operation of part A of the
project and exchange views with the Bank on said plan (para. 4.3).
(b)  that it would: (i) have its accounts and financial statements audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each year, the auditor's report in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank any other
information concerning said records, account and financial statements, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request (para. 4.16);
(c)  COFIDE shall constitute, and operate therafter, a reserve fund to grant short-
term loans, with an amortization period not to exceed one year, to CFIs in the
event of defaults by WUOs on Sub-Subloans, in order to provide liquidity to
such CFIs while collection measures are bein taken. Such reserve fund shall be
established and be operated under the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Irrigation Project Credit Manual. Whenever not required for the above
purposes, the proceeds of the reserve fund shall be utilized for the financing of
irrigation rehabiliation projects and other agricultural capital investments under
similar terms and conditions as those provided under this Agreement for Part A
of the Project and as further described in the Irrigation Project Credit Manual.



- 30 -
6.3  Conditions for loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) The Government would have allocated adequate funds from its proposed fiscal
year budget and made them available to MAG to implement the project activities
for 1996 (para. 3.2);
(b)  the Borrower would have staffed the PCU with staff with experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.2);
(c)  MEF and COFIDE would have signed the Subsidiary Agreement for the
establishment and management of the Rehabilitation Fund (para. 4.8);
(d)  the plans of accounts and accounting procedures for the PCU and COFIDE
would have been made operational (para. 4.16); and
(e)  a monitoring system, acceptable to the Bank, would have been made operational
at the PCU level (para. 4.17).
6.4 Conditions of disbursements would be that:
(a)  for the Incentive to the Adoption of Technological Innovations component, the
PCU would have adopted the final version of the Incentives Fund Manual,
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.16).
RECOMMENDATION
6.5       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for a US dollar single currency Bank loan of US$85.0 million with a term of 17
years, including a 5 year-grace period LIBOR-based.



PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Table 1: Project Components by Year
(US$ tlhousand equivalent)
Components                             Year I           Year 2         Year 3      Year 4    Year 5    lTotal Costs   % FE
A. Rehabilitation of irrigation Ilnfrastictiure                 18,873.2       35,560.7      4R,020.0              --           102,453.9     13
B. Institutional Dcvelopmciit Strcngthcning
(Training of WUOs)                                               1,650.9        1,460.8         841.7     997.1    1,002.1        5,952.6     50
C. Incentive Program for Tcchnology Improvenicnt
1. Training of Extensionists                                   1,652.9        1,325.0        1,325.0   1,325.0    1,291.1       6,919.0     40
2. Participation to Cost of Extensionist and Matcrials         3,600.9        1,599.4          799.7        --        --        6,000.0     10
3. incentivcs for Technology Improvement                       3,300.0        4,100.0        4,900.0   5,700.0    7,200.0      25,200.0     60
Subtotal                                  8,553.8        7,024.4        7,024.7   7,025.0    8,491.1      38,119.0     39
D. Project Administration and Monitoring
1. Project Coordination Unit                                    624.1          624.1          611.6     520.3      520.3        2,900.4      2
2,900.4
Subtotal                                   624.1           624.1          611.6     520.3      520.3                    2
E. Complementary Programs
1. Emergency Dam Safety Program                               7,000.0             --             --        --         --       7,000.0     40
Subtotal                                 7,000.0             --             -         -          -         7,000.0     43
Total bascline Costs                                            36,702.0       44,670.0       56,498.0   8,542.4   10,013.5     156,425.9     20
Physical Contingencics                                        1,610.3         2,065.1       2,697.6     220.4      218.9        6,812.3     18
Price Contingencics                                             895.1         1,959.1       3,963.6    957.3    1,416.6         9,191.2    20
Total Project Costs                                            39,207.4        48,694.2      63,159.2   9,720.1   11,449.0      172,429.4
,T1



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
DESCRIPTION OF THE REHABILITATION WORKS
1.        The main characteristics of the subprojects that will be implemented during the
first two years of the Project are summarized in Table 1. A brief description of the
rehabilitation works, as well as the critical aspects related to each subproject, are presented
below:
2.    San Lorenzo. This subproject is located in the northern part of the Peruvian Coast.
The main source of water is the Quiroz river which provides most of the water used in the
irrigated area. A 22 km conveyance canal (60 rn/sec), including 8.7 km of tunnels (8.7 km),
connects the river with the San Lorenzo reservoir (total capacity of 258 hm3). The current
irrigated area is 32,140 ha, which includes some 6400 ha incorporated into the system by
2700 unauthorized users who use uncontrolled water in the upper portion of the Quiroz canal
and consume more than 20 percent of the total water used in the project.
3.        The main works to be undertaken by the users' organizations are: (a)
rehabilitation of the sand trap, including the access road and the control gates in the diversion
structure; (b) rehabilitation of the Quiroz canal and the Culqui tunnel; installation of
irrigation farm gates on the Quiroz canal to improve the control of water used by the
unauthorized users; (c) repairing of the Quebrada Totoral diversion structure, and
construction of irrigation intakes to control water used by unauthorized users; (e) repairing of
the diversion dike on the Chipillico River, and rehabilitation of its related works;
(f) rehabilitation of the Yuscay canal and improvement of the conveyance system; and (g)
acquisition of machinery and equipment for system maintenance.
4.        After completion of the rehabilitation works, the water availability in the
irrigation system will increase by about 197 hm3 which will help to improve the cropping
pattern and increase the irrigated area by 595 ha.
5.        Chancay-Lambayeque. This sub-project is also located in the northern part of
the Peruvian Coast; the main sources of water are the Conchano, Chotano and Chancay
Rivers. Surface-regulated water is guaranteed for only 46 percent of the total project area
(86,664 ha). Under these circumstances the users need to use groundwater to at least
partially complement, the water deficits. Therefore, the main objective of the rehabilitation
works, is to increase the amount of surface water available for irrigation.
6.        The main works under this subproject, are a complex network of canals and
tunnels which convey water from the Conchano and Chotano Rivers to the Chancay River,
and then to the Tinajones reservoir (320 hm3). A conveyance system distributes the water to
irrigate an average of 40,200 ha. Additionally, 885 unauthorized users in the upper part of
the system irrigate an area of 4,747 ha without a proper license or permit. In the lower
irrigated valley there is a need to improve the drainage system which is the main factor
contributing to water logging and soil salinity. Since most of these problems are due to the



- 33 -
large area planted with rice, the project also envisages changing the cropping pattern in order
to reduce water consumption and water losses.
7.         The more important actions to be executed by the users' organizations are: (a)
rehabilitating the Chotano y Conchano tunnels; (b) repairing of the diversion gates in Raca-
Rumi; (c) rehabilitating the connection canals; (d) repairing the main related works of the
Tinajones reservoir; (e) rehabilitating of the Taymi canal; and (f) rehabilitating the drainage
system.
8.         The investment in rehabilitation works under the Project, is fully justified in
order to reduce the risk of total failure of the system. Although the investment per hectare
under the Project is low, the financial analysis shows that small farmers may have difficulties
in repaying 100 percent of the rehabilitation costs. However, cross subsidies managed by the
users' organization, as well as favorable credit rates and terms, should mitigate this.
9.         Huaral-La Esperanza. This is a small highly productive subproject with 3,475
ha on which farmers grow fruits and vegetables at high productivity levels. The main
objective of the works envisaged by the Project will be the improvement of the conveyance
system to reduce water losses and obtain more water to satisfy full water demand for crops,
thereby increasing the production yields. No significant implementation or cost recovery
problems are expected in this subproject.
10.        The works to be carried out for the rehabilitation of the project will be: (a)
lining 17,048 m of existing conveyance earth canals; repairing 55,055m of lined canals; (c)
constructing a 27,500 m3 pond; (d) constructing 859 small structures in the canal network;
(e) rehabilitating two wells and building a new one; and (f) repairing the main roads.
11.        Santa Rita de Siguas. This is also a small subproject, located in Arequipa, in
the southern region of the country. It covers an area of 1,447 ha, irrigated with water from
the Siguas River. The irrigation system is very simple, consisting of a direct diversion
work, a main canal of 33.7 kin, and a secondary canal network of 36.7 km.
12.        The rehabilitation works will consist mainly of the construction of a new
diversion structure to obtain more water from the river; to clean and reduce cracks in the
main canal; and lining the secondary canal network. By means of these works, more water
will be available and a new area of 700 ha will be irrigated; additionally, the water
distribution system will be improved with communication and water measurement equipment;
the application efficiency is also expected to be improved. Considering the users'
qualifications and the average size of the irrigated plots, greater than 15 ha, no financial or
technical problems are expected during project implementation.
13.        Yuramayo. This subproject is also located in the region of Arequipa, in the
southern part of the Peruvian coast. The rehabilitation works are intended to double the
irrigated area which currently amounts to some 1,020 ha. The irrigation system is simple
and consists of a direct diversion of water from the Yura River; a main canal of 29.9 km;
and a secondary distribution network of 47.72 km. The irrigated area is divided into four
different sections, located on sloped hills. Under these conditions, irrigation is a very
difficult task that has forced the users to build an impressive system of terraces to facilitate
water application.



- 34 -
14.       The rehabilitation works will aim to improve the conveyance system by repairing
the water intake structure, protecting the first 4 km of the main canal, reducing cracks and
constructing 185 structures, including 175 on-farm control gates to improve water delivery to
users.
15.       A conflict exists with the Vitor irrigation scheme, located downstream from the
Yuramayo project, since both systems share the same water source. It will therefore be
necessary to clarify the water rights available to each area before deciding on the increase of
new irrigated area.
16.       La Joya Antigua. This sub-project forms a part of the Chili River system
which is regulated by several dams in the upper basin, including the Fraile and Aguada
Blanca reservoirs. Since the 4,000 ha irrigated area is located in the lower part of the Chili
Regulado system, it receives the residual waters originating in the different types of hydraulic
developments located in the upper portion of the river, including sewage from Arequipa and
runoff from the Cerro Verde and Santa Rosa mines.
17.       The irrigation infrastructure consists of a diversion dam on the Chili River, a
main canal of 43.3 km with several tunnels, 23 water intakes for irrigation and 3 other
intakes for non-agricultural purposes, and a secondary distribution network composed of 75
km of canals. Due to poor maintenance practices, the main canal is unable to transport all
the water demanded for irrigation during peak periods.
18.       The rehabilitation activities will include the following:
(a) repairing the gates and sand trap structure in the diversion dam;
(b) repairing the main canal and tunnels to increase their capacity;
(c) constructing a new canal to consolidate the operation of 23 existing gates under one
control structure;
(d) constructing 107 small structures; and
(e) repairing the service roads.
19.        Since 1991, La Joya's irrigation is managed by two users' organizations (La Joya
Antigua and La Joya Nueva). Taking into account that the proposed rehabilitation works will
also benefit a sector controlled by the La Joya Nueva subsystem, an agreement between the
users of the two Juntas should be reached to share the repayment obligations generated by the
construction of such works.
20.        Huaura-Santa Rosa. This subproject located to the North of city of Lima uses
water from the Huaura River. The total irrigated area is composed of 7 different irrigation
systems plus 26 independent small irrigation subsystems. The proposed rehabilitation works
affected only three of the main systems: Santa Rosa (5,594 ha), Quipico (3,290 ha), and San
Felipe (9,704 ha). Conveyance efficiency will substantially improve after construction of the
rehabilitation works; as a consequence, land use intensity will increase in the affected areas.
21.        The main works considered for these systems are:
(a) rehabilitation of the main canal and the service roads in the Santa Rosa system; (b)
construction of a new diversion structure on the Huaura River (including the installation of
electrical control gates), a sand trap structure and a large number of small related structures
in the Quipico system; and (c) construction of a new diversion structure on the Huaura



- 35 -
River, a 2,262 m new lined main canal, and rehabilitation of the total conveyance network in
the San Felipe system.
22.       The users' organizations that will be responsible for the implementation of the
works are the Comisiones de Regantes (Irrigators' Comissions) of Santa Rosa, Quipico and
San Felipe. Therefore, each of these comissions would also assume responsibility for the
repayment of the investments required for the rehabilitation of each specific system.
23.       Chili Regulado. This subproject, located in Arequipa, is a multipurpose water
system. It forms part of the Chili River hydraulic development system, which is regulated
by several reservoirs in the upper basin. The diversion and conveyance works provide
domestic and industrial water for the Arequipa region as well as irrigation water for the
Zamacola project.
24.       The principal component of the Chili Regulado system is the Zamacola-Arequipa
canal which takes water directly from the Charcani II hydroelectric plant. Due to poor
maintenance, water losses in this canal represent about 34 percent of total conveyed water.
25.       The rehabilitation works to be implemented by the users' organization include
repairing and lining the Zamacola canal and tunnels, and the construction of a new water
intake on the Chili River. The increased water availability will allow the JU's to increase
the project's irrigated area and improve crop yields because of more timely water
application.
26.       Currently non-agricultural users such as SEDAPAR, which provides drinking
water for the city of Arequipa, Rio Seco Industrial Park developments, are not members of
the users' organization; therefore, their participation as active members must be resolved
before project implementation begins.
27.       Santa Lacramarca. This subproject located 450 km north of Lima, uses water
from the Santa River to irrigate 16,766 ha. The valley is divided into two subsystems, Santa
and Irchim, each managed by a different users' organization.
28.       The main components of the existing irrigation systems are: three diversion
works on the Santa River; two main conveyance canals, two distribution networks and a
drainage system in the lower portion of the irrigated areas. Conveyance efficiency in the
canals is very low due to poor maintenance.
29.       The rehabilitation works under the Santa subsystem include the construction of a
new diversion structure on the Santa River; lining of 22 km of the Chimbote main canal,
lining of 25.7 km of secondary canals, construction of 371 small structures in the conveyance
network, and the rehabilitation of the service roads. In the case of the Irchim subsystem,
the users' organization asked for the construction a new diversion structure (25 m3/sec
capacity) and the purchase of machinery and equipment for the subsystem's maintenance. As
a result of these investments, more water will be available to improve land use intensity and
crop yields; the operation and maintenance of both systems will also be substantially
improved.



- 36 -
30.        Sama. This irrigation subproject (1,274 ha) is located in the Southern part of
the Peruvian Coast. The main source of water is the Sama River, subject to periodic
droughts. Moreover, water quality is nearly unacceptable in accordance with Laboratory
standards due to high saline content. Despite these adverse constraints, local farmers have
managed to develop very efficient irrigation methods and relatively high yields for alfalfa,
since livestock is the main production activity in the project area.
31.        The irrigation system consists of several rustic diversion structures along the
river and a canal network of 127 Km, only 34 percent of which is lined. The proposed
works, to be undertaken by the users' organization, involve the rehabilitation of the entire
irrigation network in order to increase land use intensity in the project area.
32.        A large number of small farmers are members of the users' organization; the
cash flow analysis prepared for these small farmers shows that they will not be able to repay
100 percent of their share of the rehabilitation costs. Therefore, some kind of cross subsidy
managed by the organization's board will be established by the JUs, in order to guarantee
full recovery of the investments required by the construction of the rehabilitation works.
33.        A summary of six additional subprojects is presented in the table below. The
feasibility studies for these subprojects have been also prepared by a MAG technical group
and cover an area of 39,040 ha. The estimated cost of the proposed rehabilitation works
amounts to US$27.1 million.
Table: New Subprojects
Investment       Cost
No.  Subproject           Area           US$          US$/ha
I    Vitor (*)           1,556        1,635,153       1050.9
2     Chicama (*)        5,684        2,983,920       525.0
3     Locumba            2,800        2,500,000       892.9
4     Pativilca          8,000        5,000,000       625.0
5     Camana             7,000        8,000,000       1142.9
6     Pisco             14,000        7,000,000       500.0
TOTAL             39,040       27,119,073       694.7
(*) Study already completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF WATER USERS'
ORGANIZATIONS
A. Introduction
1.          An important element of the Irrigation Subsector Project is the strengthening
of users' organizations, all of which are responsible for operating, maintaining and
administering irrigation systems in Peru and some of which will soon be required to hire
contractors to rehabilitate the irrigation systems for which they are responsible.
2.           The project will finance a technical assistance program aimed at training the
users' organization leaders; the technical managers; the irrigation system's operating staff
and administrative/accounting officers, as well as the users themselves, although the latter
will be given information on the new form of administration of the systems in question rather
than training as such. There are at least four important areas that would be covered by the
training: (i) efficient administration of financial resources; (ii) advanced techniques for the
planning, management and distribution of water resources; (iii) the basic concepts for proper
maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, including preventive maintenance; and (iv)
strategies for achieving sustainable and profitable agriculture while protecting the
environment. In the specific case of users' organizations that will rehabilitate the irrigation
systems for which they are responsible, more extensive training will be needed in
commercial procurement practices and construction management systems.
B. Organization of the Training
3.          The PCU will invite local qualified consultants (including universities and
NGOs) to submit proposals to carry out training activities. International consultants from
universities, institutes or consulting firms specializing in this type of training will also be
contracted to support local institutions. The PCU will also monitor the activities carried out
by these institutions.
4.          Local institutions responsible for the training program must demonstrate their
experience in several of the following areas: (a) water management, operation and
maintenance of irrigation works, administration of financial and human resources,
infrastructure construction and rehabilitation, operation of heavy equipment; and (b) modem
technology for handling and administering irrigation water and knowledge of and ability to
hire experts in these fields who are familiar with electronic data processing methods so that
they can advise users' organizations on the use of this type of equipment, which will give
them greater efficiency in administering both water and work equipment. The local
institutions must also demonstrate that they have adequate physical and human resource
capacity to carry out the training. International consultants, for their part, will be required to



- 38 -
demonstrate their experience in conducting agricultural training programs, with emphasis on
irrigation water management, irrigation techniques and methods for training institutions or
agencies responsible for managing and administering water irrigation and drainage
infrastructure.
5.          The training program will take into account the need for leaders and
technical/administrative staff of the users' organizations to give priority to the maintenance of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, machinery and equipment, vehicles and electronic and
communications equipment for which they are responsible, since one of the main reasons for
the need to rehabilitate the works and purchase machinery and equipment has been the
absence of such maintenance, and of preventive maintenance in particular.
6.          The training will also address issues of environmental protection issues. The
following topics would be included in the environmental training: soil degradation through
marshlands formation, salinization caused by poor management of irrigation water, improper
maintenance of the works and indiscriminate use of agrochemicals, including fertilizers and
pesticides.
8.          Finally, computer technology training will be included for technical and
administrative personnel. This will enable enhanced management and control of human
resources (user lists, payroll, etc.), financial resources (accounting, stock accounting,
salaries, etc.), water resources (use planning, irrigation scheduling, water distribution,
hydrometric statistics, etc.) and physical resources (inventories of infrastructure and
materials, monitoring of maintenance, scheduling of activities, etc.).
9.          There will be four major groups of trainees in the users' organizations, as
follows: (i) technical managers and their assistants; (ii) organization leaders; (iii)
administrative staff; and (iv) Users in general. Technical managers and their assistants.
Since these will be the technical staff responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation works, they would be expected to already have general knowledge in areas relating
to water use/management and works upkeep/maintenance, and also of administrative matters.
Their training would include: (a) general framework, including institutional organization,
water legislation, irrigation rights, and organization of users; (b) water planning and
management, including estimating water supply availability for planning purposes, and water
demand (irrigation requirements by crop; effects of water shortage on crop yields, calculation
of unit irrigation requirement rates); water distribution programs; methods for distributing
water according to scheduled demand, methods of delivery by turns; estimating conveyance
loss and its components, i.e., evaporation, infiltration, leakage and management-related;
estimating loss factors for irrigation scheduling, using water control points; (c) general
knowledge of irrigation scheduling and methods, farmland drainage, problems caused by
marshlands formation and soil salinization and how to combat them; fertilizer application and
use, pesticide use problems; preparation of programs for the proper use of agrochemicals in
agriculture; problems of pollution caused by agrochemicals; (d) upkeep and maintenance of
the irrigation works, including preparation of the inventory of works, schedules for upkeep
and maintenance; estimating work volume; upkeep cycles; methods of upkeep and
appropriate equipment; unit performance of equipment under different operating
circumstances, methods of scheduling works, unit costs and integration of program costs;
program monitoring; and methods for maintaining special hydraulic equipment such as
valves, gates and electromechanical equipment in general, maintenance of storage and



- 39 -
diversion dams; maintenance of heavy equipment, vehicles, electronic equipment, computers,
etc.); administrative aspects including the preparation of budgets for the ope,.ition and
maintenance of works.
C. Organization Leaders
10.         The training of leaders would be in the form of seminars which clearly
present, the general principles of the same topics as those taught to the technical managers
and their assistants, without going too deeply into technical details. Emphasis will be placed
on the following areas of particular importance for the sound administration of irrigation
systems: (a) legal framework; (b) institutional organization; (c) irrigation rights and water
legislation; (d) methods of water distribution and the importance of water measuring for
equitable water distribution; (e) environmental impact of the works and their operation and
maintenance. Special attention must be drawn to the effect of the use of polluted water for
crop irrigation, to pollution caused by agrochemicals, particularly those that have been
banned in other regions and countries, and their effect on plants, wildlife and human health;
and other aspects of environmental abuse such as water erosion caused by improper water
management, marshlands formation and soil salinization, with their effects on resource
productivity; (f) principles of operation and maintenance of equipment and works; (g)
financial aspects, including estimating irrigation tariffs and their components; analysis of the
organizations' financial and capital status; and interpretation of income statements, budgets
and balance sheets; (h) general information on equipment needs and management methods
that will lead to greater operating and administrative efficiency, including the need to
purchase computers, communications equipment and explanation of the features and
advantages of support software; and (j) general aspects of organization for efficient
management and its relationship to the operation, maintenance and administration of the
works. In the specific case of users' organizations that will rehabilitate the systems for
which they are responsible, more extensive training will be needed in all organizational,
managerial and financial aspects.
D. Administrative Staff
11.         Administrative staff would be trained primarily in cost accounting methods,
including allocation of costs among different categories of services; financial planning and
cost revenue forecasting; personnel management and administration; estimating and collecting
water charges; budgetary techniques; legal administrative aspects; and inventories of physical
resources. Training will focus on estimating tariffs which directly relate the cost of water to
the amount of water used. As such it will cover treatment of capital, public and private
investment, variable costs (operation, maintenance and administrative costs); and distribution
of costs between direct and indirect beneficiaries.
E. Cost of the Component
12.         The total cost of the institutional strengthening of the user's organizations
component is approximately US$6.0 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
INCENTIVES PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATION TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENT
A. Introduction
1.          The incentive program would consist of two components:
(a) assistance with access to technology and (b) Govemment subsidies based on investments
made by farmers to modemize their irrigation systems.
B. Assistance with access to technology
2.          To gain access to technology, users' organizations need to hire technical
specialists who are familiar with technology and who are capable of transferring it to users
interested in adopting it. However, a sufficient market for these technical specialists does
not yet exist. Additionally, while the IDB is supporting the Govemment in creating a
market-oriented extension system, these efforts focus on individual producers for productive
activities, not for irrigation and not for groups such as the WUOs . As such, this sub-
component will finance a training program for private extensionist (US$7.2 million) and will
provide financial assistance to users' organizations by paying on a declining basis, part of the
salaries of the extensionists hired by the organizations (US$7 million). This financial
assistance would be phased out over three years, after which farmers would pay technical
specialist salaries in full. More specifically, it is estimated that 60 percent of the specialists'
salaries would be financed under the sub-component during the first year, 40 percent during
the second year and only 20 percent during the third year, after which the users will pay 100
percent of this cost.
3.          The number of specialists per irrigation commission will vary based upon the
number of users in each commission. The total requirement is estimated at around 480,
based upon the current number of users throughout the coast of Peru. This would result in
the annual distribution by department shown in Table I below.
4.          Selection would be made in accordance with earlier referenced criteria for
providers of technical assistance under the water user training sub-component. In order to
ensure that the trained professionals hired by the users' organizations will remain, they will
be required to sign a commitment to work with the hiring organization for a minimum of five
years, or repay the salaries they have received during their training.



- 41 -
Table 1. Number of Extension Specialists by
Department
DEPARTMENT        USERS       TECHNICAL                     COSTS (US$)
SPECIALISTS
No.           No.            1        2         3      TOTAL
TUMBES                 3619                 9     45360    31240      15120  90720
PIURA                 52165                96    483840    322560    151280  967680
LAMBAYEQUE             51349               72    362880    241920    120960   715760
LA LEBERTAD           33880                69    347760    231840    115920  695520
ANCASH                 11396               20    100800    67200    33600  301600
LIMA                  40624                76    383040    255360    127680  766080
ICA                   29354                71    357840   238560    119280  715680
AREQUIPA              22675                42    211680    141120    70560  423360
MOQUEGUA               3292                 8     40320    26880    13440  80640
TACNA                  6554                13    65520    43680       21840   131040
TOTAL                 254908              476   2399040 | 1599360 |  799680  4798080
5.             The project will finance the cost of training private extensionists who will be
hired by the users' organizations to provide technical assistance to farmers in the areas of on-
farm water management, agricultural production, marketing and environmental protection.
The training program was designed by a group of international experts and will place
emphasis on the adoption of new irrigation technologies under the particular conditions of the
Peruvian coast (including the evaluation of all technical and socio-economic factors that
influence the selection of the most appropriate irrigation methods).
C. Investments Subsidies to Improve Irrigation Technology
6.             Equally as important as training is the inclusion of incentives to promote
technological innovation in irrigation (US$16 million), with a view to achieving greater
efficiency in the use of water and soil resources, thereby enabling farmers to increase their
competitiveness on both the domestic and foreign markets and also to improve their income.
Project subsidies would complement beneficiaries' investment in on-far irrigation equipment
and works, amounting to about US$11 million. To ensure that all farmers are provided
equal access to these subsidies, the funds made available will be allocated proportionately to
the irrigated areas in the main valleys of the coast. Since the program's aim is to promote
modernized irrigation, only projects on land with water already supplied to the farm site will
receive subsidies.



- 42 -
7.           Legal support for these incentives comes from Legislative Decree No. 653 of
July 30, 1991, i.e., the Law Promoting Investments in the Agricultural Sector, which, in
paragraph E of Article 2, refers to guarantees for the development of agricultural activities,
as well as Supreme Decree No. 0048-91 of October 30, 1991, which, in Article 106,
indicates that the Government, through the Ministry of Agriculture will, promote the
improvement and technical modernization of irrigation systems. Furthermore, since the
funds for the incentives are part of the loan negotiated by the Peruvian Government with the
World Bank, approval of said Credit by the Executive Branch by Supreme Decree is legally
valid.
8.          The subsidy will be paid on the cost of studies to establish improved irrigation
methods and also on the equipment needed to apply irrigation water and agricultural
chemicals, including the necessary pumping equipment, in cases where pressurization is
needed. In light of the market costs of the most common irrigation systems, such as
pressurization, spraying, drip and micro-irrigation, including pressurization and delivery of
agricultural chemicals via irrigation systems, a ceiling on investment per hectare has been set
at US$5,000, since higher investments will be difficult to recover. There will also be a
ceiling on investment per individual project of US$150,000 or US$300,000 for projects
undertaken by farmer organizations or associations. The farmers benefitting from this
program will be obliged to make improved irrigation systems available to the region's
extension specialists of the region for use in demonstrations to other farmers.
9.          The Government will allocate funds to two groups of users, who will be
identified as "small," in the case of individual farms under 15 ha in area, and "large," in the
case of farms over 15 ha in area, a maximum farm size also being set at 30 ha. -- or up to
the investment ceiling, in the case of associated farms -- for entitlement to the subsidy. The
funds available for the program will be divided equally between these two groups. In the
case of the "small" farmer group, the Government may subsidize up to a maximum of 80
percent of project cost, while in the case of the "large" farmer group the ceiling will be set
at 50 percent of project cost.
10.         To qualify for these subsidies, farmers will be required to take part in public
competitions organized by the Ministry of Agriculture. Invitations to participate will be
published in a daily national newspaper or in "El Peruano," the Official Gazette, specifying
the conditions for participation and the procedures to be used in selecting the winning
projects.
11.         The projects entering the competition will be analyzed from a technical,
financial and legal standpoint by the PCU's Central Coordination Unit of the PCU under the
Ministry of Agriculture. The subsidy will be paid once the works have been fully
constructed and delivered to the satisfaction of PCU.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
FINANCING OF IRRIGATION REHABILITATION WORKS
OPERATING MANUAL
A. New Investment Funding and Recovery Arrangements
1.          To implement the rehabilitation component, the Government intends to change
the system traditionally employed to finance irrigation infrastructure, which until very
recently was tied to the central government's budget. The existing system envisages the
recovery of public investments through a system of water charges and tariffs (Executive
Order 17,752, section 18, and Decree 003/90, section 14). To address problems associated
with delayed repayment, several mechanisms will be utilized. First, CFIs may require
WUOs to establish a reserve Fund within the CFI, equivalent to about one year's repayment.
In the event of WUO default, the CFI can access this reserve. Once the reserve is depleted,
if the WUO remains in default, the CFI will have full power to initiate judicial action against
the delinquent party, including execution of guarantees. Finally, a second reserve Fund will
be established within COFIDE and funded by the interest differential between COFIDE's cost
of borrowing and on-lending under the project. CFIs can access this reserve once the WUO
reserve is depleted and evidence is produced that the CFI has initiated actions to execute
WUO guarantees. Operational details for these reserve funds and the WUO guarantees are
described in the Credit Operating Manual.
2.          Central to the new approach is active private-sector involvement in project
identification through the WUOs, as well as recovery of investment costs through the use of
a targeted credit line. To encourage private institutions to participate in the agricultural
sector, the Government has eliminated investment ceilings and overregulation, as evidenced,
for instance, by Legislative Decrees 653 (Agricultural Sector Development Act), 757 (Legal
Framework for the Promotion of Private Investment), and 758 (Regulations for the
Promotion of Private Investment in Public Utilities Infrastructure). It has also ended various
types of subsidies.
3.          The primary advantages to channeling the rehabilitation funds through the
financial sector include: (i) capacity to work directly with Project beneficiaries; (ii)
efficiency and flexibility in distribution of funds for rehabilitation investments (a key element
given the immediate need to rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes); and (iii) encouragement
of formal private credit relationships channeled to the agricultural sector.
4.          To enable irrigation infrastructure users to rehabilitate their systems, the
Government will assist them with financing generated from the proceeds of external
borrowing and government funds. WUOs will now be fully responsible for operation and
management of their systems, thus enhancing the potential for more efficient use and
operation of the irrigation infrastructure. As such, WUOs will have a greater incentive to
also undertake and recover their own investment in rehabilitation. Principles, conditions,
rights and obligations of the parties have been clearly spelled out in the system of contracts
adopted to transfer infrastructure to WUOs.



- 44 -
B. Proposed financing arrangements
5.   To finance the costs of irrigation rehabilitation works, the Government will use the
banking and finance system, with funds to be administered by the second-tier bank,
COFIDE. Under the Peruvian banking legislation, a second-tier bank is a financial
institution whose mandate is to support investments in various productive sectors, with
financing to be provided exclusively through financial intermediaries. After a set of formal
requirements has been satisfied, the latter institutions receive the funds and bear the full risk
of the lending operation, and therefore require borrowers to satisfy their particular lending
requirements.
6. The Government will make long term financing available for the remaining 100 percent
of the investment costs by channelling funds through COFIDE to first-tier lenders (e.g.,
commercial banks), which will on-lend to WIUOs. The latter will then acquire the goods and
services needed for the project through private contractors, following standard commercial
procedures consistent with Bank procurement guidelines. Specialized firms will be hired to
prepare detailed engineering designs and supervise the implementation of the rehabilitation
works. In shifting financial and contractual service delivery to the private sector, the PCU in
MAG will be intentionally kept as small as possible, playing more of a supervisory and
regulatory role.
C. Governance
7.           The line of credit established within COFIDE for financing the rehabilitation
works, heretofore referred to as the Fund, will be governed by the following provisions: (i)
Article 76 of the Peruvian Constitution: "Contracts for every service and project of the
import and value specified in the Budget Act shall be let through an open call for tenders; (ii)
the terms of loan agreements entered into by and between the Government of Peru and (a)
the World Bank and (b) the Government of Japan; (iii) the Operating Regulations for the
project; (iv) the Budget Act of Peru; (v) The National Oversight System Act (Executive
Order 26,162, section 4); (vi) Executive Order 25,907/92 authorizing departments and
agencies of the public sector to deposit their funds in any Peruvian bank or finance
corporation; and (vii) for all matters not covered by the aforesaid laws and provisions, the
pertinent provisions of Legislative Decree 770, Chapter IV, Subchapter IX; the Banking
Institutions and Finance Corporations Act, and the Civil Code, Book XII, Chapter IV.
In addition, participating first-tier lenders, in verifying the legal status of
WUOs which apply for loans, will determine that they are legally established and represented
and ascertain their membership and geographic sphere of operation, in accordance with the
following legislation: (i) Executive Order 653/91, section 59, which requires that water
users in each irrigation district be organized into Irrigators' Committees for each irrigation
sector or subsector, and into Users' Associations for each irrigation district; (ii) Supreme
Decree 048/91 (Regulations E.O. 653), section 113, which defines an irrigation district as a
continuous geographic territory comprising one or more drainage basins or sub basins or a
portion thereof and falling under the jurisdiction of a District Technical Administrator; (iii)
Decree 037/89, section 1, which defines a water user as every individual or corporation
which is licensed to use water and is registered as a water user; (iv) Decree 037/89, section



- 45 -
22, which requires Users' Associations to have a cross-sectoral membership; (v) Decree
048/91, section 121, which requires every Users' Association to have a technical manager
with a degree in agricultural science, expertise in water delivery systems and water and soil
management, and at least five years' experience.
D. Eligibility of Financial Intermediaries
8.           In order to participate in the project, first-tier financial lenders would have to
comply with a series of technical, financial, institutional and operational criteria. These
criteria are incorporated in the Credit Operating Manual and include: financial and
prudential criteria established by COFIDE and the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance
(e.g., regarding profitability, liquidity, risk, solvency, reserves, etc.); experience in
financing irrigation investments, experience in financing investments in the agriculture sector
(both long-term and working capital or other short term investments) and proximity to, and
nature of relationships with potential clients.
E. Eligibility of Beneficiary WUOs
9.           W'UOs participating in the project will have to comply with at least the
following criteria: (i) completion of feasibility study satisfactory to the PCU; (ii)
establishment as a legally constituted user association; (iii) existence of a census of
association members; (iv) approval by the members to request the financing under the
project; (v) expressed consent by members to provide real guarantees in the form of water
rights, land, and or other guarantees as required by participating financial intermediaries for
financing the subprojects; and (vi) demonstration of approved operating regulations and
effective administrative capacity. Additionally, prior to receiving a loan from a participating
first-tier lender, each WUO will have to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the lender, the
following: (i) suitable legal, administrative, and financial capacity; (ii) sufficient financial
quality of subproject feasibility study, including demonstration of a rate of return no less than
12%; and (iii) sufficient real guarantees to obtain the loan.
F. Terms and Conditions of Funds to Government and COFIDE
10.          The Government will borrow from the World Bank and the cofinancier, on
separately negotiated terms, funds to cover the rehabilitation investment costs under the
project. The Government will provide 100 percent to WUOs as long term financing flowing
from the Government through COFIDE, which will establish a separate account for
administering the funds. The costs of the funds to COFIDE will be determined by the
Government's cost of borrowing under the project. The amortization will be consistent with
those established for loans to WJUOs under the project.



- 46 -
F. Terms and Conditions of Loans to Financial Intermediaries
11.         Funds lent by COFIDE to first-tier lenders will be provided for the purpose of
rehabilitating existing irrigation schemes, as identified under the project. Loans to the first-
tier institutions will be denominated in American dollars at an interest rate no more than the
average const of funds of CFIs, as defined in the Credit Operating Manual, and no less than
the cost of funds to the Borrower under the project, plus a commission (0.5 percent) to cover
administrative costs. A penalty for delayed repayment will be assessed, following Central
Bank procedures and regulations. The terms of the loans will be established in accordance
with the requirements of the subprojects, but not exceed a maximum of fifteen years,
including a maximum of four years grace.
G. Terms and Conditions of Loans to WUOs
12.         Loans from first-tier lenders to WUOs will be provided for the purpose of
rehabilitating existing irrigation schemes, as identified under the project. Loans will be
denominated in American dollars at market-determined commercial lending rates (the current
relatively high inflation imputed in local currency interest rates does not favor long-term
finance). These rates will be either variable or fixed, depending on the requirements of
participating WUOs and lenders. The terms of the loans will be established in accordance
with the requirements of participating WUOs and their subprojects, but not exceed a
maximum of fifteen years, including a maximum of four years grace.
H. Disbursement
13.         In accordance with the disbursement procedures described in paragraph 4.23 of
this Staff Appraisal Report, for 95 percent of the rehabilitation investment costs, COFIDE
will on-lend to first-tier financial institutions. COFIDE will only on-lend out of proceeds
generated by external borrowing (e.g., from the World Bank and OECF) under the project,
as disbursed from the overall project's Special Account and deposited in a separate account
within and maintained by COFIDE. Disbursements to first-tier lenders will be made by
directly crediting the lender's account in the Central Bank, or other bank deemed acceptable
by COFIDE, against a promissory note issued by the first-tier lender to COFIDE, identifying
it as the on-lending source of the funds under the project. Finally, first-tier lenders will
disburse to WTUOs an advance, equivalent to 30% of the total cost of each works contract
(e.g., for mobilization, initial working capital, etc.), at such time that a loan contract is
signed between the two parties. The advance would be rolled over as on-going
disbursements are made in accordance with statements of expenditure submitted by WUOs
during implementation of works.
I. Loan Recovery
14.         Participating first-tier lenders will be required to repay COFIDE 100 percent
of the funds they receive, which COFIDE will in turn transfer to the Government.
Amortization schedules will be consistent with those established for the individual
subprojects. Repayments will be made by directly debiting the first-tier lender accounts in



- 47 -
the Central Bank, or other bank deemed appropriate by COFIDE. At any time, the first-tier
lender can provide early repayments. All loan recovery, including principal and interest,
will be repaid to the Government in accordance with the referenced amortization schedules.
Finally, the beneficiary WUOs will be required to repay to their lenders under the project
100 percent of the funds they receive. Amortization schedules will be established in
accordance with the requirements of the WUOs and their subprojects. In the case of delayed
repayment, the lender will have full power to initiate judicial action against the delinquent
parties, including execution of guarantees.
J. Risks
15.         The Government will assume the risks associated with transferring funds
through COFIDE to CFIs. The WUOs will be responsible for the dollar-nuevo sol risk (the
first-tier lenders under the project will likely pass on the dollar-sol risk to WUOs since the
latter will be taking loans in American dollars). First-tier lenders will assume full credit risk
for the loans they provide to participating WJUOs.
K. Security Arrangements
16.         Real guarantees will be provided by WUOs to obtain loans for financing the
rehabilitation investment costs under the project. These guarantees will include, at a
minimum, land and water use. Other guarantees may be used as well, in accordance with
the requirements and flexibility of participating first-tier lenders.
L. Lnstitutional Responsibilities
17.         The Government will make the funds under the project available through its
public expenditure budget. For the rehabilitation funding, a credit line will be established
within COFIDE through an agreement between the Ministry of Economy, as the Government
of Peru's financial agent, and COFIDE. The PCU within MAG will be responsible for
supervision of the overall project, while COFIDE will directly supervise participating first-
tier lenders.
18.         COFIDE will be required to comply with its responsibilities as defined in the
referenced agreement for establishing the credit line. These will include provision of
financing to first-tier lenders for WUO subprojects, supervision of these lenders, and
submission of quarterly progress reports to the PCU in MAG.
19.         In coordination with the PCU, MEF will monitor the performance of COFIDE
in managing the rehabilitation credit line. The first-tier lenders will be required to comply
with their responsibilities as defined in contracts signed with COFIDE. They will also be
responsible for providing assistance to WUOs in preparing loan requests and documentation,
evaluating the viability of WUOs and their subprojects for their financing, supervising the
use of funds by WUOs to whom loans are provided under the project, seeking loan recovery,
maintaining an adequate financial information system for their own obligations and WUO
subloans, and providing the Bank or COFIDE or the PCU with any related information
which may be reasonably requested.



- 48 -
M. Effectiveness of Operating Manual
20.         The definitions, procedures and requirements described in this Manual wilU
become effective at such time that the credit line is established within COFIDE for the
purpose of financing rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, as defined under the
project. COFIDE may modify the Manual, with approval from the PCU, and as satisfactory
to the Bank, with the objective of adapting to changing circumstances during project
implementation and ensuring the success of the overall project. Any changes made will be
immediately communicated to participating first-tier lenders.



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
EMERGENCY OF DAM REHABILITATION
AND DAM SAFETY PROGRAM
1.          The western region of the Peruvian Andes is characterized by limited and
irregularly distributed precipitation. As a consequence, storage dams become an essential
element in increasing and ensuring timely distribution of water supply to cities and irrigation
schemes on the coast. These reservoirs are usually located in the Sierra (above 2,000 m
msl) where precipitation is abundant. The stored water is then conveyed to the consumption
centers and distributed by gravity to users in the lower coastal valleys. Many of the
irrigation schemes being considered for rehabilitation works as part of the Irrigation
Subsector Project (San Lorenzo, Santa Rita Siguas, La Joya Antigua and Chili Regulado,
among others) depend on these reservoirs for their water supply.
2.          Due to the essential role of storage reservoirs as an integral component of
existing irrigation developments, a well-respected international expert carried out a dam
safety evaluation study of eight major dams in Peru (see attached Table I for details). The
assessment of these dams' current operating conditions identified the following problems: (i)
inexistence of a government agency responsible for the operation, maintenance and safety of
dams; (ii) lack of maintenance and operational guidelines; (iii) lack of qualified personnel for
operation and maintenance; (iv) problems with data collection systems (some of the
monitoring equipment does not work and data are not analyzed); (v) problems with gates,
valves, spillways and other outlet works; (vi) deficient power generators; and (vii) structural
problems (El Fraile reservoir). Most of the problems with the hydromechanical equipment
and outlet works are the result of poor maintenance.
3.          The appraisal mission confirmed that, among the eight reservoirs inspected,
four require immediate rehabilitation works. The cost estimate for these works has been
prepared on the basis of the above-referenced dam safety study and additional cost
information regarding the necessary rehabilitation works of the Quebrada El Cazador (El
Fraile reservoir) obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture's Regional Office in Arequipa.
Due to the multiplicity of users affected by the reservoirs, and the deferred maintenance of
the works, the Government has agreed to take responsibility for the cost of rehabilitation. It
will also be responsible for administering related operation and maintenance, either directly
or by contracting out. Ultimately, however, operation and maintenance costs would be
covered on a pro-rated basis among the various users of the reservoirs.
4.          The proposed emergency works are briefly described below and a more
detailed budget is presented in Table II in Table 1 of this Annex.
Poechos Dam: (a) Testing and necessary maintenance of control equipment for the operation
of gates, valves and other outlet structures; (b) replacement of the gasket seals in gates; (c)
maintenance of low-level drains and outlet works; and (d) maintenance and/or replacement of
electric generators.



- 50 -
San Lorenzo Dam: (a) Testing and necessary maintenance of control equipment for the
operation of gates, valves and other outlet structures; (b) maintenance of low-level drains and
outlet works; and (c) maintenance and/or replacement of electric generators.
Tinajones Dam: (a) Testing and necessary maintenance of control equipment for the
operation of gates, valves and other outlet structures; (b) replacement of seals of radial gates;
and (c) maintenance and/or replacement of electric generators.
El Fraile Dam: (a) Implementation of a data collection system; (b) study to investigate
stability of the concrete structure and abutments; (c) testing and necessary maintenance of
control equipment for the operation of gates, valves and other outlet structures; (d)
maintenance of low-level drains and outlet works; (e) maintenance and/or replacement of
electric generators; (f) communication equipment; and (g) complete maintenance works with
the objective of improving the stability of the Quebrada El Cazador by reducing seepage,
improving drainage and controlling erosion.
5.          The project will retroactively finance all costs associated with studies,
construction and maintenance and procurement of equipment for emergency dam safety to be
executed by INADE and the Ministry of Agriculture between the date of the appraisal
mission and the date of loan effectiveness for the Project. Retroactive financing, amounting
to about US$2.5 million, will be limited to the works described and will be conditioned to
the application of the World Bank's procurement guidelines for the procurement of goods and
for the contract of consultants and services. It would be also contingent upon the
establishment of a unit responsible for the management of the dam safety program and for
the follow-up activities of operation and maintenance (O&M) of the reservoirs, in INADE.



Emergency Dam Safety Program
Budget Estimate
US$ (1,000)
DAM       STUDIES   GENERATORS   COMMUNICATION   SPILLWAY    GATES &                     VALVES &    OTHER          TOTAL
l_______                         EQUIPMENT                       CONTROL        CONTROL
Poechos       150            250                                 300           250            300                     1,250
San          80            250                                                100           300                      730
Lorenzo                                                                                                                                  en
Tinajones      100           250                                                150            300                      800
El Fraile     420            250                 50                             150           300         3,050'      4,220
| TOTAL       750           1,000                50               300           650           1,200        3,050      7,000
1/ Rehabilitation works at Quebrada El Cazador.



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Environmental Sector
1.          The absence of a central environmental planning authority in Peru has
contributed to an institutional vacuum, resulting in the fragmentation of environmental
responsibility among ministries, with the creation of small ministerial environmental units
which often suffer from lack of personnel and financial resources. The existence of these
ministerial-based environmental units, while potentially valuable as a counterpart to a central
environmental agency, have contributed to ineffective environmental management through
institutional overlap, poor coordination, and duplication of efforts.
2.          The institutional failure is also largely due to differing interpretations of the
term autoridad competente (responsible authority) as provided for in the environmental code
(Codigo del Medio Ambiente), enacted in 1990. In agriculture and renewable natural
resources, the Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales (INRENA) has interpreted the
environmental code to mean, among other tasks, the evaluation of environmental and natural
renewable resources, monitoring and control of activities in which environmental risk is
evident, establishment of effluent standards for agricultural activities, and the creation of a
program to monitor pollution associated with agricultural activities.
3.          Despite the constraints noted above there is evidence that the situation may be
changing for the better. First, in at least one ministry (Ministry of Mines), the
environmental unit is being strengthened (with support from the World Bank's EMTEL
project). This has resulted in substantial progress, including the development of a registry of
mines, publishing of emission standards, and the establishment of a rudimentary monitoring
program dependent on self-monitoring with supervisory oversight contracted out to the
private sector. More recently the Government has created the Consejo Nacional del Medio
Ambiente (CONAMA) as an autonomous agency under the Presidency; among other
responsibilities the council would be responsible for the development of national
environmental standards, resolution of inter-ministerial disputes, coordination of national,
regional, and local government actions with respect to the environment, and the
establishment of criteria for zoning, environmental quality and impact assessments.
4.          Presently, there are other indicators of progress in meeting the country's
environmental challenges which have direct relevance to proposed World Bank projects. In
1989 a Comisi6n Nacional comprised of the Instituto Nacional de Planificaci6n (ONERN)
and other public and private institutions was created to develop a National Conservation
Strategy (NCS) for the purpose of defining basic policies to guide development planning in
promoting the sustainable development and use of natural resources. One of the priorities
identified in the NCS recommended the development of an integrated watershed management
program. The program's objectives include planning and promoting the sustainable
development of watersheds which would include river basin planning, erosion control,



- 53 -
rehabilitation of small- and medium-scale irrigation systems, reforestation, and training and
education in watershed management. A number of other programs could be supported
through a watershed approach including an environmental sanitation program (water quality
monitoring, pesticide management and control, and dumping of untreated wastes).
5.          In addition, the proposed new Water Law presents the opportunity for the
establishment of instream flows for ecological purposes which, in effect, are "environmental
water rights" to be established during the initial allocation process. Other important aspects
that may be addressed in the new law are the prohibition of alterations to water quality which
would be harmful to human health, plants and wildlife and provisions for river bank
protection as well as other measures as required to protect the watersheds.
6.          Moreover, interest in supporting Peru's environmental management capacity
continues to grow. In the near future, the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) will be
providing support through trust funds to strengthen both INRENA and CONAMA.
Regarding the former, support is being provided to INRENA to build capability in
environmental impact assessments (EIA) and environmental audits and in the establishment of
Maximum Permissible Emission Limits for contaminants in agricultural and agro-industrial
activities. In addition, the IDB will support the development of a renewable natural resource
monitoring system for the establishment of policies and guidelines. This monitoring system
will include the creation of a surface water quality monitoring network in six to eight of the
country's critical river basins.
B. Environment and Irrigation
7.          Irrigation developments in Peru are associated with a series of environmental
issues which include: (i) waterlogging and salinization; (ii) water quality; (iii) erosion and
siltation; (iv) alterations to ground water hydrology; (v) changes in stream morphology; (vi)
minimum instream flows; and (vii) inappropriate use of agro-chemicals, among others.
Many of the environmental impacts resulting from irrigation developments in the coastal
valleys of Peru cannot be fully addressed without a broad and multidisciplinary approach
which would deal with environmental issues at a watershed scale. Such an approach must
focus on integrated watershed management. Its successful implementation would further
necessitate the support of a national program (framework) designed to address environmental
protection nationwide. In this context, the Irrigation Subsector Project would allow for a
better assessment and evaluation of the range and magnitude of environmental impacts
associated with irrigation developments in Peru, derived from the knowledge that will be
gained during the analysis of existing irrigation systems to be included as part of the project.
The subprojects included in the rehabilitation program are small pieces of a large puzzle
(watershed) which includes a much wider range of water uses, and conflicts, and related
environmental impacts. Those aspects related to integrated watershed management and a
nationwide environmental protection program will be addressed in the Bank's forthcoming
Land and Water Management Project.
8.          The Irrigation Subsector Project, which involves only the rehabilitation of
small-to-medium-sized infrastructure of existing irrigation schemes, will have a positive
environmental impact. This is not to say that some of the irrigation schemes to be
rehabilitated under the project have no environmental impacts. However, all the irrigation



- 54 -
subprojects considered for rehabilitation works have been in operation for many years facing
a variety of previously-mentioned environmental issues. Without the proposed rehabilitation
works, the environmental impacts of these irrigation developments will tend to increase since
the infrastructure will continue to deteriorate and no other financial resources are available to
address environmental aspects related to existing irrigation systems. The project, on the
other hand, will bring a range of environmental benefits since it will promote efficient water
use by reducing water loses, improve drainage systems which have a direct impact on
waterlogging and soil salinity, and address a broad range of environmental issues, including
the proper use of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, in its training component.
9.            Although it is beyond the scope of this project to address the entire spectrum
of existing environmental problems, there nevertheless there remains the need to evaluate
such problems and to adopt some specific measures to minimize environmental degradation
within project areas. Among the major environmental issues related to the irrigation
subprojects to be rehabilitated are the following:
(a)    Waterlogging and Salinization. Waterlogging and salinization is a serious
problem in irrigation projects in Peru. It is estimated that 40 percent of the
total cultivated land in the coastal valleys is affected, to some extent, by soil
salinization. The issues of soil salinization and waterlogging, which are
particularly intense in schemes in the northern part of the country, will be
partially addressed by improvements in water delivery and distribution systems
and drainage systems associated with proposed rehabilitation works. Increased
risks of waterlogging and salinization, possibly associated with expansion or
irrigated areas stemming from water surpluses generated by improved
efficiency, will be minimum. Most of the additional water that will be
available for irrigation is the result of reducing current losses throughout the
conveyance systems, which is one of the causes of the waterlogging and
salinization problems facing these projects. Utilization of improved
technologies such as sprinlder and drip irrigation will also reduce the incidence
of water logging and salinization.
(b)    Inappropriate Use of Agro-Chemicals. There is no effective program to
monitor or control the importation, production, manufacturing or application of
agro-chemicals in the country.' This has resulted in widespread use of
products which have been banned in many countries for human health reasons
(e.g., DDT, mercury-based fungicides, organochlorides, etc.) and
inappropriate applications of pesticides, primarily in terms of over-application
and/or use of inappropriate mixtures. While there is no national monitoring
program, site-specific studies provide evidence of pesticide accumulation in
agricultural products and animals. The results of these studies, together with
indirect evidence of existing patterns of pesticide use in areas in proximity to
most of the proposed irrigation schemes, provide a sufficient basis to
recommend appropriate mitigation measures be included in the project. The
project will focus on improving current pesticide use patterns through the
In recognition of the problem a legal ban was placed on the importation of 12 organo-chlorides in 1991. In November 1992, the
Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria (SENASA) was created and given the responsibility of developing national atandards for the
importation and use of pesticides. In July 1993 the Comisi6n Nacional de Plaguicidas waa created to develop new legislation to
control pesticides. None of these actions appear to have been effective in promoting changes in patterns of uwe at field level.



- 55 -
development of appropriate training modules for inclusion in the project's
training component. Emphasis will be placed on the "training of trainers",
through short courses, development of appropriate audiovisual materials,
environmental guidelines and other tools.
(c)   Increased Water Consumption - Watershed Hydrology. One of the
environmental issues of direct concern to the project is the rehabilitation of
water withdrawal structures which raises the possibility of higher water intake.
Possible impacts associated with this aspect will be limited by maintaining the
existing distribution system's capacity in the primary canals which will not be
enlarged under the project. The purpose of rehabilitating these withdrawal
structures is not necessarily to promote the withdrawal of larger amounts of
water but rather to permit timely and efficient water distribution when it is
most needed in the irrigation fields. It is further expected that, following the
implementation of the proposed new water law, any expansion of the amount
of water used for irrigation will be a function of non-allocated available water
resources within each watershed. It is also expected that minimum instream
flows for environmental purposes will be established during the initial
allocation of water rights.
(d)   Water Quality. There is no national water quality monitoring program from
which an adequate assessment can be made to determine the status of existing
surface waters used in the country's irrigation projects. A review of results
obtained from the most recent national water quality sampling program
indicated the presence of heavy metals in concentrations exceeding human
safety standards. The statistical significance of these results is uncertain since
they were derived from a short-term monitoring program with limited area-
wide coverage. Nonetheless, they are a matter of concern.
10.         Many of the subprojects are dependent on water intakes located downstream
from other irrigation schemes which drain into a shared river system. Excessive pesticide
concentrations were also recorded in the 1982-83 national water quality monitoring program.
Furthermore, the dumping of untreated municipal waste and mine tailings at sites upstream
from irrigation schemes also represents a significant water quality concern.
11.         While it is clear that it is beyond the scope of the project to address the range
and magnitude of the water quality problems identified above, there nevertheless remain
specific actions which could initiate a process leading to the required improvements in
surface water quality. In the short term, these actions include the development of a training
module for the proper use of agro-chemicals designed to reduce the use of highly toxic
materials in project supported areas. The Government can benefit from the development of
such a training module by extending its application to areas not supported by the project.
Over the medium term, the Bank will support, through a Japanese PHRD Grant, the
development of a water quality monitoring program for high-risk watersheds as part of the
preparation of the forthcoming Land and Water Management Project. Data collected from
this monitoring program, in addition to data obtained from a similar IDB-financed program,
could be used as a partial basis to develop a watershed management strategy, and facilitate
the identification of possible interventions designed to mitigate water use conflicts in the
follow-on Land and Water Management Project. Finally, in the medium to long term it is



- 56 -
expected that provisions included in the proposed new water law that prohibits alterations of
water quality which are harmful to human health, wildlife and plants will allow for the
development of mechanisms to punish polluters and contribute therefore, to the overall
improvement of the quality of surface and ground waters.



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.           Financial and economic analysis has been undertaken for the Project's major
component, the Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Infrastructure. The analysis focuses only on
the first ten subprojects planned under the project, for which detailed engineering and
feasibility studies have been prepared and reviewed. The project is actually program-
oriented. As such, future irrigation rehabilitation subprojects are expected to be prepared,
reviewed for feasibility using the same rigorous criteria as used for the first ten subprojects,
and implemented under the project. Additionally, the analysis does not cover the other
components of the project since the activities proposed at this stage are not necessarily
project-specific and would impact beneficiaries outside the immediate project area.
B. Target Population
2.           It is estimated that the project would ultimately benefit over 50,000 farming
families covering an area over 200,000 ha. This includes an estimated 34,000 farms and
130,000 ha in the area covered by the first ten subprojects (see Table I, attached). The
majority of the land under the first 10 subprojects is privately held, resulting in significant
variation in land holding size in these areas. More than one-third are less than 3 ha while
another third are between 10-20 ha. About 5 percent are more than 20 ha and the rest are
between 3-10 ha. Not all land is privately held. Sizeable portions of land distribution are
the result of the Agrarian Land Reform, resulting in land titling ambiguities. Even outside
land reform settlements, not all farmers have title to the land they farm, often as a result of
disputes over inheritance. Nevertheless, the success of initial and ongoing land titling efforts
should resolve this issue.
C. Financial Analysis
3.           Financial analysis has been carried out at the farm level in order to determine
the financial viability of the project for farmers who would be project beneficiaries. More
specifically, the financial analysis assesses these farmers' capacity to recover the investment
in rehabilitation works and to fully pay the operation and maintenance costs related to
irrigation rehabilitation.



- 58 -
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
4.           Financial analysis has been carried out on the basis of sixty-four farm models
which represent the present and future agriculture scenarios of the different project areas5'.
Approximately one-half of the models represent crop development and livestock activities
while the other half show only crop development. Cropping intensity and water use
efficiency at the outset of the project reflect current practices. With few exceptions, the
specific crop models used as the basis for the aggregated farm models assume a constant
present situation in terms of production and inputs. While this is a conservative assumption,
it is reasonable in that it allows the analysis to focus on project benefits related to irrigation
enhancements and not speculative advances in agriculture development.
5.           The prices used in the referenced models were those prevailing in December
1992. Using a cost and price index, prices have been adjusted to reflect 1994 data.
6.           For each subproject, farm models represent farmers who benefit primarily
from irrigation improvement. In most cases, increased production value results from
increasing the irrigated area while maintaining relatively constant cropping (and livestock)
patterns. However, in some cases, the potential for enhanced agriculture development in
high-value crops (e.g., fruits and vegetables) is currently hindered primarily by poor
irrigation. Thus, it is assumed that the development of such potential under the project is
directly related to irrigation improvement (as opposed to new agricultural development
practices). The models show an evolution over a twenty-year period, the expected useful life
of the irrigation; however, full development would be reached in year four of the project.
Each model differs based upon current and expected cropping patterns for a given area and
its size.
7.           In all cases, under the with-project situation of improved irrigation, crop area,
cropping intensity and water use efficiency are expected to increase, resulting in increased
yields, production values, and incomes (although neither equally nor significantly in all
cases). Also in all cases, under the without-project situation of unimproved irrigation, a
declining capacity to realize agricultural potential is expected, which would result in falling
yields, production values and incomes. More specifically, without-project benefits have been
estimated to decrease at the following rates: 1 percent per year over ten years for Santa Rita
de Siguas and Huaral-La Esperanza; 2 percent for San Lorenzo and Chancay-Lambayeque,
Sama, Santa Lacramarca, and Huara-Santa Rosa; and 3 percent for Yuramayo, La Joya
Antigua and Chili Regulado. The justifications for the above are the following:
(a)    Cases in which lack of rehabilitation would not have significant impact on
current production/farmer incomes: Huaral-La Esperanza and Santa Rita de
Siguas. In these subprojects, the assumption is a without-project situation
declining by no more than 1 percent per annum. Minor rehabilitation works
are planned, with minimal risk of failure.
5 Feasibility studies were prepared under FAOITCP/PER/2254 for 10 subprojects expected to be implemented in Years I and 2
under the project. The results of these studies were subsequently adjusted by Bank mission members. The studies and
adjustment estimates are located in Project Files.



- 59 -
(b)   Cases in which lack of rehabilitation would modestly impact current
production/farmer incomes (also taking into account the fact that, without the
Project, some type of small rehabilitation works would be undertaken from
time to time): San Lorenzo, Chancay-Lambayeque, Huaral-Santa Rosa, Santa
Lacramarca and Sama. In these subprojects, the assumption is a without-
project situation declining by some 2 percent per year. Significant
rehabilitation works are planned but the existing irrigation infrastructure would
not collapse entirely without them. Even without the project, some of the
rehabilitation would be undertaken anyway to "sustain" the existing irrigation
system, particularly in the case of larger subprojects such as San Lorenzo and
Chancay-Lambayeque.
(c)   Cases in which the lack of rehabilitation would seriously impact the
sustainability of existing infrastructure as well as current production/farmer
incomes: Yuramayo, La Joya Antigua and Chili Regulado. Here, the
assumption is a without-project situation declining by 3 percent per annum.
By way of example, Yuramayo's infrastructure is threatened by the risk of
landslides, which would be mitigated by the completion of the rehabilitation
works planned under the Project. Similarly, La Joya Antigua and Chili
Regulado both have tunnels which may collapse without the rehabilitation
works planned under the Project.
8.          Since most of the subprojects involve mostly small-and-medium sized farmers,
not involved in agro-industry, income tax is not applicable through the year 1999 (Peruvian
Tax Law: Legislative Decree 771, Article 116 and Legislative Decree 2/80, Article 4).
While there is no guarantee that the existing Law will change after 1999, a conservative
assumption is made that as of post-1999 (e.g., Year 6 of the Project), income taxes would be
applicable according to rates currently established under the Law for agribusinesses and
related enterprises. These rates range from about 6 percent for annual incomes of less than
US$4,000 to 30 percent or higher for annual incomes over approximately US$20,000.
9.          Regarding debt service, requirements for both long-term credit for off-farm
rehabilitation works, as well as short-term credit for on-farm investments are estimated.
Long-term credit for civil works is estimated as the share of costs that each farmer in a given
farm model would be required to pay. Other credit is broken down between on-farm'
investment (about 70 percent, generally targeted toward fruit development) and working
capital requirements to cover the costs of fertilizer and pesticides. The parameters assumed
for long-term credit are: a total repayment period of 12 years', including a maximum of
four years' grace period. Those for on-farm investment are: a maximum of 7 years
repayment, including 4 years grace. However, few models incorporate on-farm investment
and those that do represent producers who have limited access to quasi-governmental, export
oriented financing. Working capital credit is estimated on an annual payback basis, with no
grace. Finally, two interest rates have been tested for purposes of calculating debt service:
12 percent and 15 percent.



- 60 -
Fmancial Results
10.         Based on the above, financial rates of return for after-debt service have been
calculated (see Table II, attached). These rates are reflective of the 12 percent interest rate
as a conservative estimate, although the long-term debt will ultimately be extended at a rate
slightly lower than 12 percent. Present values and switching values have also been calculated
for net incremental income, investments and other operating costs.
11.         Due to the variability in farm sizes and incomes within the Project (more than
one-third fall below 3 ha while another third are between 10-20 ha), the financial returns also
vary significantly from one subproject to another. Individual subproject's financial returns
range from about 12 percent to over 50 percent; however, in general, farm models with
lower returns tended to represent a higher number of actual farms under the project than
models with higher returns. As such, the overall financial return for the project is estimated
at approximately 36 percent. Similarly, increases in beneficiary incomes are variable (see
Table II, attached). At full development, increases in incremental income (after payment of
higher O&M costs, taxes and debt service related to the rehabilitation works) range from less
than 5 percent to over 50 percent, depending on the subproject area. For the same reasons
applicable to the financial returns, the overall increase is substantial but not exceedingly
high, an estimated 30 percent. Despite this variability, it is noteworthy that no subproject as
a whole suffers from cash flow problems, although some farm models within subprojects do
reflect minimal cash flow difficulty. This is evident particularly in the Chancay-Lambayeque
and Sama subproject areas. However, due to relatively close proximity to urban areas and
access to other economic activities, off-farm income, which is not incorporated in the farm
models, will help offset potential cash flow problems.
12.         Regarding the seemingly high financial returns, rehabilitation projects in
general, and the current one which is no exception, have the characteristic that much of the
"returns" benefit not only from the incremental investment but also existing investments that
are "sunk" - i.e., have been made in the past and have a very low alternative use
(opportunity cost) without the proposed project investment. As such, financial returns will
almost always appear to be high because the benefits are often high compared to relatively
small incremental investment costs. Given this "mathematical quirk", it therefore becomes
critical, to focus on reasonable estimates of the "without-project case" as well as the
sustainability of the enterprises or beneficiary associations involved. For this reason,
discussion herein (above) has been devoted to the issues of what the water user associations
would do without the current Project and how the incomes and cash flows of beneficiaries
are affected over time with the Project.
D. Water Charges and Cost Recovery
Water Tariffs
13.         The existing legislation (Supreme Decree 003-90-AG, 1990) prescribes two
classes of water tariffs, one for agricultural use and the other for non-agricultural use. In
general, these tariffs do not reflect the true cost of water. In agriculture, the water tariff
includes three elements:



- 61 -
(a)    A so-called water user association component to meet association O&M
expenses and to finance the Technical Manager's operating budget (5 percent
of the amount collected).
(b)   A water levy component, representing 10 percent of the first component.
Revenues from this levy are to go to regional agricultural development funds
(Fondeagros) or to large-scale "special" irrigation projects.
(c)    An "amortization" component to recover the cost of public investment in
diversion structures for irrigation systems. This component is also to represent
only 10 percent of the water user association component, except when
otherwise determined by "special" project authorities.
14.         Irrigation water tariffs are proposed by the Technical Manager to the water
users' association and, in case of disagreement, are decided by an ad hoc, informal
committee. Except in very few cases, these tariffs have been unrealistically low (US$20-30
per ha) and have not provided for proper O&M of the irrigation systems (the "amortization"
component is usually not recovered). Collection has generally been unsatisfactory, due to
various factors: poor organization of users' associations, perception of the State as provider,
frequent conflicts over the use of a resource which is not always available, and minimal
penalties in case of default. On average, it is estimated that 30 percent of farmers have not
paid their water dues.
15.         In addition, special water levies are collected by a given association or
irrigators' commission as mandatory contributions from the water users for specific works or
activities in the irrigation system or subsystem. According to the existing law, these levies
are only used to meet extraordinary expenses. In reality, they often constitute the only
means for an irrigator or canal commission to operate and maintain its canal or subsector.
Since the transfer of irrigation infrastructure O&M by the Government to water users in
1989, the payment of canal commission-controlled levies has helped to improve O&M of
canals or specific parts of irrigation systems.
16.          Low water tariffs in the past have resulted in: (i) a lack of financial resources
to operate and maintain the irrigation systems adequately, so that most of the irrigation
systems are in an advanced stage of deterioration (some with a high risk of collapse); (ii)
excessive water consumption at farm level due both to the lack of any price incentive to use
water more efficiently, and to high conveyance losses; (iii) undue preference for crops (such
as sugarcane and rice) with large water requirements; and (iv) limited incentives to use more
efficient irrigation techniques such as sprinkler or drip irrigation.
Current Cost Recovery Policies and Payment of Water Charges
17.          More recent Government policy in the irrigation sub-sector has focused on
improved efficiency, calling for: (i) complete take-over of responsibility by water users for
O&M of their irrigation systems, and (ii) full recovery of irrigation investment costs,
including for rehabilitation and modernization. The Peruvian Government, as well as
irrigation water users, deserve full credit for taking these measures and, since this is the first



- 62 -
time in the world in which farmers are willing to finance 100 percent of irrigation investment
costs, they should be strongly supported by the Bank in implementing the new policy.
18.         The current Project supports recent Government policy to shift responsibility to
water users for O&M and investment costs for irrigation infrastructure. However, both
Government policy and the Project demonstrate recognition that the objective to recover 100
percent of O&M and investment costs is ambitious. Consequently, consideration has been
given to the fact that not all beneficiary farmers and water users' associations possess the
same financial capacity. However, the existing Law regarding income taxes (referred to
above), coupled with relatively favorable loan terms planned under the Project, would enable
even those with low financial capacity to benefit from the Project. Thus, the with-project
situation demonstrates that in virtually all cases, the higher expected production and revenues
would more than cover both the amortization of credit for irrigation investments and the
increased water charge for operation and maintenance costs.
Economic Analysis
19.          As in the case of the financial analysis, economic analysis has been carried out
for the first ten subproject areas on costs and benefits relating to the rehabilitation of existing
irrigation infrastructure. In general, given the improved macroeconomic situation regarding
price distortions in Peru, the economic analysis yields results similar to those of the financial
analysis.
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
The assumptions underlying the economic analysis are the following:
(a)   Economic prices have been calculated for key outputs (e.g., cotton, rice,
maize, and sugarcane) and inputs (e.g., Urea and triple phosphate).
Additionally, "conversion factors", taking into account updating of original
data to 1994 terms, have been applied to financial prices for all other outputs
and inputs, including fertilizers and pesticides.
(b)   The without-project situation is the same as for the financial analysis.
(c)   Rehabilitation investment costs include mission estimates for physical
contingencies. Other on-farm investment costs are based upon feasibility
studies prepared by local consultants. All costs are estimated to be equivalent
in economic and financial terms.
(d)   An economic return for the overall rehabilitation component has been
estimated taking into consideration the costs of the Project Coordinating Unit
(36 percent) and administrative costs (3 percent) which would apply to the
Rehabilitation component.



- 63 -
(e)    Cost phasing is as follows: (i) rehabilitation investment costs in Years 1 and 2
of the Project, with related works to be completed in their respective years; (ii)
Project Coordinating Unit and administrative costs are only applied in Years 1
and 2 as these are the years in which works for the first ten subprojects are
expected to be implemented. Benefit streams are those applicable only to the
first ten subprojects.
E. Economic Results
20.          The results show economic returns for each subproject similar to those of the
financial returns. In general, economic retums are higher than financial returns, as a result
of applying the referenced conversion factors to financial prices. Where the economic return
is lower than the financial retum, economic prices for certain key commodities have been
estimated to be lower than financial prices. Again, there is significant variability among
subprojects for the same reasons which applied under the financial analysis. Economic
returns range from about 18 percent to over 50 percent, depending on the subproject. The
overall economic return is estimated to be about 39 percent (see Table II, attached).
21.          A sensitivity analysis has been carried out on the subprojects to account for
declining trends in world market prices of outputs. The analysis tests the viability of the
schemes under adverse scenarios (e.g., decreases in benefits ranging from 10 percent to 15
percent). Switching values have also been calculated to determine the percentage of changes
in key variables required to reduce the economic return to the opportunity cost of capital.
The sensitivity of individual schemes to changes in benefits and costs varies significantly due
to the relative diversity of the schemes and their specific cropping patterns. In general,
however, the results show that the subprojects are relatively insensitive to cost overruns and
reduced benefits from either lower production or commodity price reductions. Such relative
insensitivity is the result of farm models being prepared with reasonably prudent production
assumptions and consideration of market demand.



-64 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
SUBPROJECT COSTS
SUBPROJECT               Area (ha)  No. Users  Investment  Investment/ha  O&M with Projec;  O&M w/o Project,
(US$ 000)      (US$)         (USS/ha)          lUS$/hal
Year 1
San Lorenzo               32805       5692      5,556.4       1 69.4           63                29
Chancay Lambayecue        47500      15148      6,975.0       146.8            84                26
Hiuaral La Esperanza       3476       565       6,867.6      1,957.7           72                52
S. Rita de Siguas          2147        97       3,607.5      1,680.3           109               80
Yururnayo                  2217       175        879.8        396.8            94                21
Subtotal       88145      21677     23,886.3      4,351.0          422               208
Year 2
I'Ka Joya Antigua           3598       535       4,387.4      1,219.4           97                30
Hua,a S. Rosa             18588       6763      8,1 70.2      439.5            115               25
Chili Regulado             1941       677       2,381.0      1,226.7           82                21
S. Lacramarca             16766       3857     14,090.2       840.4            65                18
Sama                       1247       259       1,519.6      1,193.0           138               15
Subtotal       42140      12091     30,548.4      4,919.0          497               109
OVERALL TOTAL             130285     33768     54,434./      9,270.0           919              317
NI7E   Numbers m,ay not caculate prec,sely due to roundinrg



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
SUBPROJECT RETURNS
SUBPROJECT                             FRR            ER.R           Average Incremental Income               Average Income
at Full Development                     increase
(US$iyearl
Year 1
San Lorenzo                           >  50           >  50                      2333.0                              49.0
Chancay Lambayecue                    1 2.0           21.8                        37C.0                               <  5
Huaral La Esperar.z3                  20.7            35.I i103.0                                                     8.0
S. Rita de Siguas                     >  50            11.2                      7490.0                              >  50
Yurumayo                              >  50           >  50                      583  .0                             >  50
Year 2
La Joya Antigua                       >  50           > 50                       4232.0 4C  37
Huara S. Rosa                         >  50           >  50                      r808.0                              >  50
Chili Regulado                        >  50           > 50                       I4730                               >  50
S. Lacramarca                         29.7            42.5                        343.0                              35.0
Sama                                  1 2.0           17.3                        151.0                               <
OVERALL               36.3            38.7                       2257.0                              30.4
NOTES:
i ) All calculations are based uDon models prepared by consultants and adjusted by *he Bank.
The results reflect 'he tact that subprojecs with lower financial and economic returns
include larger numbers of smaller farms than other subprojects which show higher returns.
The results also reflect expected value calcuistions based upon three scenares:
the base case and oenefits reduction of 10% and 15%.
21 Incremental income = with projec- net income lafter higher O&M costs shown in 7able i
less the sum of: without project net income, deoc service, and taxes.
31 Full develomernt actually occurs at Year 4 of the Project, at which time incremental
income is in all cases significantly higher than the results above. However.
long-term debt service payment does not begin until Year S ano current Peruvian
Law ooes not require small-medium size farmers to pay income tax until 1999 (Year al.
To be realistic, then, the above results are reflective of Year S.
41  The % increase in incremental income   w/Droiect net income I w/O project net income



r           4-  . >-3   4    -  >        -   - -  -.  -r    -.                           L   S            -           - u
*                      !    S                    .  .    -.    .                              -,    ,    .-    
......................................................................................................................................... ........... . ................................ ................ . ........... .................
-u ,           If                                                                                   . Ci
-~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ - - I --  -   -                                                            a -                         .''''''''''''' ''  '   '';''''''''''  t    
.~~~~~~~S ,1                                                                     -,a  4                          '3-t~
o  Ce  S                                    _                           #          , M4I  r 14-i '             Z Z,
"'2... .. .... .            -     -    -F ...     ''             .... '     . .. .  .. '.ii ..                              > '
cIr   C                                                                                                                    | ! 2,     |o 
.          ..    ..    .. . .. . . . . .. .. .. .. . .. . . .......... ...  .....  ...   .   1..... . .....................................  ........ .... .................  1IIlLZn.............I
:   -' ~~~~~~~~~  44           I                     ZI                          rn  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,r
_,                                    _        -                                         53             
1--   -   ----  --                                                       ----- -~                      ---  ---                  C 2
I~~~~~~~~ I ______                                                                                                     I___
l~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7 1 m1o
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 i                                                                                   f'>
_  1.       .                          .         ,,            .                                                            11  r-1 ~
ffi
6 XgINN
99 



- 67 -
CN 
.... ............................  ...............................    ...                                                                                                                                                                         ....  ., ..... ......................................
N  -
Lu
0                          ........................................ ................. ..   .............................                                                                                                                        ...             .....   ........   ...................................................  ......................
LLC   -I
Nz                                 -
X j,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U
o ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ..   . .. .. ..  . ..                                                         ..  .   ..   .  .   ..  .   .   . .  .  .   ..   .   . .  .   .  . .  .   .  ..    .  .  . .  .  .
io,  ti l                                                                     i,  I  ,  ,  6  X.  ;                                                                                                                  i  ,  i                                                           i .                                                                   ,
22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
LJ
<M



68 -
_
L                                         ........                     ..                 ..            ......................    ...................                                                                                   ..................                                                                                         ....................................
u5l i4 1i-
.: .....                                           ..               ...           .......................... .    ...................                                                                                 .............                                                     .--..            ......... ............................. .
o1~~~~~~~~~..,.......,_...........   ................                                                                                 . .... .  ....... .                                                                                                        ...                ..........  .                     ....  ....... ....... ....
cz         .*'
m - I1 
w    w                                                               t   ~~~~ct                                             wC                                                    L                                 C
________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --~~~~~~~~~~~~8 e w  a'A%        IA                                  toI



-69 -
I                                                          
o       LC
S   .                                        .....                           ....   i
C)~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2:E~~~~~ -1                                                      0 a+  ,                       , 
,L. Z.                               ,   .          .,
LU U)                                       4~~~~~.  -C                  ~ ~               
.......... ... .................  ...................   ... .......... ...............-. ...... ... .....
<~~~~~m~                                                                               I          
z~~~~~~~~~~ 
Q o               v                    4 )
C   =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   --V~~~ ~~"Z=I
'x       U    -      U      W    L .1      <                                              Ml~   
I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a .u       V   Q.
Zs  VI  0        ~         ~       ~           ~.               
_____ ____~~p~                                          I _______ LIII.  " iLL M                                  0  -U



- 70 -
ANNEX 10
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision Dates         Main Mission Activities        Required Skills  Staff-weeks
May 1997            Procurement Procedures              Irrigation Eng.        4
Financial Arrangements for           Dams Specialist
Rehabilitation Works               Fin. Analyst
Feasibility Studies                 Inst. Develop.
Users Organizations Development       Specialist
Dams Safety Program
Organization of Training Components
Oct 1997            Detailed Engineering Designs         Irrigation Eng.      6
Launching of Training Components    Dams Specialist
Dams Safety Program                  Fin. Analyst
Incentives Fund Structure           ID Specialist
Mid Term Review    First-Tiers Lenders performance      Irrigation Eng.       4.
June 1998           Incentives Fund Performance          Fin. Analyst
Users Organizations Performance     ID Specialist
Training Impacts                    Agronomist
Evaluation of New Feasibility Studies    Lawyer
Nov 1998            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   4
Training Components                 ID Specialist
Incentives Fund Development         Fin. Analyst
Apr 1999            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.    3
Training Component                  Fin. Analyst
Improvement in Technology           Envir. Spec.
Environmental Aspects
Oct 1999            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   4
Financial Incentives Funds          Fin. Analyst
WOs Performance
Apr 2000            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   4
Environmental Impacts               Env. Specialist
Oct 2000            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   3
Agricultural Production             Agronomist
Apr 2001            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   3
Users Organization Performance      ID Specialist
Oct 2001            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   4
Rehabilitation Fund                 Fin. Analyst
Apr 2002            Construction of Rehabilitation Works    Irrigation Eng.   2
Oct 2002            Closing Project                      Irrigation Eng.      4
Economist



- 71 -
ANNEX 11
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION             Unit   1997       1998      1999       2000       2001
WUOs Inquires                         No.    25        30
Feasibility Studies                   No.    15         15        10
Sub-Loans Applica';ons                No.    15         12        12         8
Sub-Loans Approved                    No.    10        8          8          6
Detailed Engineering Designs          No.    10        8          8          6
Rehabilitation Systems Contracts      No.    6          10        10         6
Supervision of Rehabilitation Systems    No.    6       10        10         6
Constructions                         No.    0         6          10         10         6
Rehabilitation Systems Completed
STRENGTHENING OF WATER USERS ORGANIZATIONS
WUOs Trained                          No.    13         13        13         13         13
Trainers Trained                      No.    67
WUOs Leaders Trained                  No.    220       420        440
Professionals Managers Trained        No.    50        70         60
Field Technicians Trained             No.    120       200        200
Administrative Managers Trau          No.    40        40         40                    120
Training Events for Trainers          No.    3
Training Events for Leaders           No.    24        24         24         24         24
Training Events for Professionals     No.    6         6          6          6          6
Training Events for Technicians       No.    60        60         60         60         60
Training Events for Administratives   No.    6         6          6          6          6
Workshop Events for Water Users       No.    2,010    6,030       6,030
IRRIGATION TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVES
Training of Extensionists
Extensionists Trained               No.    180       180        150        150        150
Training Events                     No.    6         6         5           5          5
Extensionists Contracted            No.    50        60         100        120        150
Incentives Fund
Public Auctions Process             No.    2         2         2           2
Projects Approved                   No.    50        75         125        150        60
Projects Implemented                No.   30         60         105        135        1,200
Agricultural Area Implemented       Ha.    600       1,200     2,100       2,700
OTHER COMPONENTS
Safety Program for Dams
Dams Rehabilitation                 No.    2         2         2



- 72 -
ANNEX 12
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
IMPACT INDICATORS
TECHNOLOGICAL IMPROVEMENTS                    Unit         1997    1998    1999         2000    .001
Water Conveyance Efficiency                    %           60       65         70         75       78
Water Application Efficiency                   %           60       62         65         68       70
Total Water Efficiency                         %           45       48         52         56       60
Increase in Water Supply                       %                    10         15         20       25
Land Use Intensity                             %            1.00     1.02       1.05       1.10    1.15
Small Producers Adopting New Technology                             20         30         50      60
Other Producers Adopting New Technology                             30         45         75       90
SOCIOECONOMIC IMPROVEMENTS
Producers Benefitting                                            115,000    15,000      10,000    10,00
Increasing Incomes                             %                                 5         10       15
Increasing Productivity                        %0                               10         15       20 l
Jobs Creation                             # man month    5,000    10,000    15,000      15,000    5,000
FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENTS
Investment Cost Recovery                       %                                          80       80
O&M Cost Recovery                              %                               75         85      100
Debt Service Coverage                                       1.5      1.5        i.25       1.25    1.25
SUSTAINABILITY
Reliability of Systems                         %           60        65        70         75       80
Audit Compliance                               %                               75         80       85
Autonomous WUOs                                             13       76        39         50      60
WUOs Cross-subsidizing                         %            10       10        8           5        5
Commercial Bank Participation                  %           80        80        80         80      80
WUOs with Non-project Commercial
Finance                                                  5        10        20         25       30



- 73 -
ANNEX 13
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter          Quarterly           Cumulative Disbursements
Ending                  Disbursements
US$ million       US$ million         % of Total
FY 1997
March 30, 1997                              4.5               4.5                5.3
June 30, 1997                               1.5                6                 7.1
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                         2.3                8.3                9.8
December 31, 1997                          2.8                12.1              14.2
March 31, 1998                             4.2                16.3              19.2
June 30, 1998                              4.5                20.8              24.5
FY 1999
September 30, 1998                         5.8                26.6              31.3
December 31, 1998                          6.5                33.1              38.9
March 31, 1999                             7.2                40.3              47.4
June 30, 1999                              7.5                47.8              56.2
FY 2000
September 30, 1999                         6.8                54.6              64.2
December 31, 1999                           6                 60.6              71.3
March 31, 2000                             5.5                66.1              77.8
June 30, 2000                              4.5                70.6              56.2
FY 2001
September 30, 2001                         3.5                74.1              87.2
December 31, 2001                          3.2                77.3              90.9
March 31, 2002                             2.8                80.1              94.2
June 30, 2002                              2.4                82.5              97.1
FY 2002
September 30, 2002                         1.5                84                98.8
December 31, 2002                           1                  85               100.0



- 74 -
ANNEX 14
PERU
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Irrigation Rehabilitation Component
Feasibility Studies of Irrigation Rehabilitation Schemes of:
San Lorenzo                            Chili Regulado
Chancay/Lambayeque                     Sama
Huara/Santa Rosa                       Pisco
Santa/Lacramarca                       Camand
Huaral/La Esperanza                    Locumba
La Joya Nueva                          Pativilca
Yuramayo                               Chicama/Paijan
Santa Rita de Siguas                   Vitor
2.    Descripci6n Situacional del Impacto en el Medio Ambiente Asociado con las Irrigaciones en
el Peru, Ings. Jorge Escurra y Lucio Salazar
3.    Evaluaci6n del Uso Inadecuado de Agroquimicos en el Medio Ambiente, Ing. Carlos Barreto
Pereyra
4.    Programa de Manejo Ambientd1 Integral de las Cuencas Medias y Altas de la Costa Peruana,
Ing. Javier Lopez y Dr. Jorge Moncada.
5.    Estudios Ambientales de los Proyectos de Rehabilitaci6n de Obras de riego, Ing Guillermo
Vilchez
6.    Propiedad, Titulaci6n y Registro de Tierras Rurales, Dra. Regina Martinez
La Propiedad Rural como Grantia Hipotecaria, Dra. Regina Martinez
Strengthening of Users Organizations Component
6.    Programa Consolidado de Capacitaci6n Tecnica y Administrativa de las Organizaciones de
Usuarios de Aguas de Riego del Peru, Dr. Arnold Rosenfeld
7.    Programa de Capacitaci6n T6cnica y Admistrativa de las Organizaciones de Usuarios de
Agua de Riego del Peru, Ing. Javier Zulueta
8.    Capacitaci6n Administrativa y Financiera al sistema de Usuarios de Agua en la Costa del
Peni, Dr. Luis Vega Castro
9.    Programa de Capacitaci6n T6cnica de las Organizaciones de Usuarios de Usuarios de Agua
de Riego de la Costa del Peri, Ing. Luis Hudson Valdivia
Incentives to the Adoption of New Technology Component
10.   Diagn6stico de la Situacion Actual de las Juntas de Usuarios en la Costa, Ings. Jorge Escurra
y Ricardo Turkowsky
11.   Programa de Capacitaci6n de Extensionistas Privados, Shaul Manor
12.   Programa de Incentivos al Riego Parcelario, Dr. Nelson Pereira Muiioz



- 75 -
Complementary Programs Component
13.   Programa de Seguridad de Grandes Presas, Dr. Manuel Serrano
14.   Marco Regulador de la Aplicaci6n de la Ley de Aguas, Dr. Jorge Eugenio Castaneda
15.   Marco Jurfdico y Tecnico-Ambiental del Sector Agrario y sus Relaciones con Otros Sectores
de la Economfa, Drs. Pierre Foy y Martha Alana, e Ing. Javier Andagua
Project Organization
16.   Organizaci6n y Manejo del Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigaci6n, Drs. Nissim Alcabes, Mario
Gallo, y Pedro Acha.






IBRD 25955R1
OS-                 ~~~~~758.                                              74                         72 
0 50    IE   ISO 5    200   250
KILOMETERS
ECUADORICOLM IA
LoEA                                  1 </  
.C.                                                                                                            .r'PERU
PIURA'               OH. .66                                                                                                    IRRIGATION
PSJRA~   0Huancabaaha 2                                                             SUB-SECTOR PROJECT
Boyanar   ...        /%s~      ~ ~~~~MaOBABA                                                     .    LO AINOF REHABILITATION  SUB-PROJECTS
Ch  RY0P       _-                                                                                                           FIST EA
CHICLAY                                                                                                                  w        SECOND YEAR
Pimnt          CAJAMARCA                                                                  *                            0          THIRD YEAR
P--Y.               d.1-S Bal              asjiEXISTING
C,t.a_r                   Qssnnn                                                                                ---    PAVED ROADS
tnaoahn          C                               - -   ~~~~~~~~~OTHER ALE WEATHER ROADS
J3nig   . Clas                                           L, le---....--.-    RALLROADS
-g                      ~~~~~~RAILFERRY
"                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUJNDARIES
-- - -                )                 -----     ~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDAR ES
Th. boudaries, colors,             ),ss                                      ot1.__                                                      INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
deno minations and any               '10         HUARAX              -
other infarmat,on, shown                         _Recs
on this -tp do sat                               T.HAUC", 
10  irmply, an the port of                                                                                                   L..........-                                    10-
The World Bank Gop               -
any ja   -t nthe lgalG1
sEtots a1 any territory,                   Gytrsu*5               CAeD   Ganp                                                                    B  R  A   Z  I L
or any endorsemn                     Paiailo       6                                                               
or acceptance af such                            0                  .         k".sd
boundaries                               H.                                          st, P
REGIONS                       Chn-y          ana         a  ry
GRAU                                   Cla                aaoal
12,         AMAZONAS                                                                 NtUANCATO
NOR ORIENTAL DEL MARANON                LIMA          OLang.
UCAYALI                                                        TaYuYe.,       0)Cntkbat6-66                                                 PUALTOND
INCA                                                                                                                                        MADNDO
LA LIBERTAD                                  Cr.AaHACVLC 
SA  ARTIN                                           . ,ansTrea                                                           Mltcapa-
LOS LIBERTADORES WARI               San Visent do CoA.                CarsreyodTCUCHo                                   Paartnb
ANDRES AVELINO CACERES                          Chnhcto '-                                                                            f,
AREQUIPA  ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      PeaAndahusyhioC  -.0ARANC`YN3                                                                      .
JOSE CARLOS MARIATEGUI                                            CA Mr
LIMA - CALLAO0Cluas
SUB-PROJECTS                                                         Ptp                      .     ~
ISAN LORENZO lI st yr.l uIuaa.~
2  CHANCAY-LAMBAYEQUE lI st yr.)                                                                                                 H<.-\>-0<
3  CHICAMA  I Ist yr.l                                               S.. JuJnAciru%
4  SANTA-LACRAMARCA l2r,d yr.)l
5 PATIVILCA l3rd yr.)
1   6  HUAURA-SANTA ROSA l2nd yr.)                                                                         pi        10      11_ PUNO                                    16
7  HLUARAL- LA ESPERANZA li st yr.)                                                                    C Is : 
8  PISCOl(3rd yr)                                                                                                                             xi.~
9  SANTA RITA DE SIGUAS(I st yr.)                                                                                                                            o q
IO  LA JOYA ANTIGUAIJ2nd yr.I                                                                         CoA Cas1F4.C Co.M",
11 YURAMAYO  I Ist yr.)                                                                                     MeIns        N       GUGA                  ru
1 2CHILI REGULADO (2nd yr.)                                                                                                                            I. )4OUGU1'
1 3VITOR (3rd yr I                                                                                                                   16         Talpu
1 4CAMANA l3rd yr.) 
iS  LOCUMBA 13rd yr. l                              0       C       E       A       N                                       lnrV 
i 6SAMAl(2nd yr)









IMAGING
Report No:        13542 PE
Type: SAP



