             Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 29838

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (TF-22473 SCL-40760)

                ON A

                LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$85 MILLION

      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                PERU

               FOR AN

  IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT




          December 20, 2004

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective August 19, 2004)

                                     Currency Unit = Nuevos Soles
                                            US$ 1 = 3.38

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 -    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ATDRs  Technical Administration of Irrigation Districts (Administraciones Técnicas de Distritos de Riego ­ ATDRs)
                    .
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
COFIDE Peruvian Development Finance Corporation (Corporación Financiera de Desarrollo ­COFIDE)
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRR    Financial Rate of Return
GOP    Government of Peru
GTZ    German Agency for Technical Co-operation
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IMF    International Monetary Fund
INADE  National Institute for Development (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo)
JBIC   Japan Bank for International Cooperation (formerly OECF)
LA     Loan Agreement
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MINAG  Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura)
NGO    Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV    Net Present Value
O&M    Operations and Maintenance
OECF   The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (currently JBIC)
OED    Operations Evaluation Department
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
POA    Annual Operational Plan (Plan Operativo Anual)
PSI    Irrigation Subsector Project (Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigación)
PSR    Project Supervision Report
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
WUOs   Water User Organizations




                                   Vice President:       David de Ferranti
                                Country Director         Marcelo Giugale
                        Sector Director/Manager          John Redwood/Mark Cackler
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Peter Koenig

                                             PERU
                                 Irrigation Subsector Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          40
Annex 9. Map                                                                     50

Project ID: P008037                                                  Project Name: Irrigation Subsector Project
Team Leader: Peter Koenig                                            TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 20, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Irrigation Subsector Project                             L/C/TF Number: TF-22473; SCL-40760
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (90%); Agricultural extension and research
                            (8%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and institutions
                            (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/14/1993                                     Effective:                           06/26/1997
     Appraisal: 03/11/1994                                         MTR:                             04/23/1998
      Approval: 07/25/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PERU/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Nicolas Krafft
Team Leader at ICR:             Peter Koeing                                   Carlos Emanuel
ICR Primary Author:             Samuel Taffesse


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 According to the Loan Agreement (LA) the objectives of the Project were to develop the
capacity for decentralized management of irrigation systems by Water Users Organizations
(WUOs), to reduce the role of the public sector in irrigation, and to ensure cost recovery of
capital investment and operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. These objectives
supported sectoral reforms introduced by the Government of Peru (GOP), addressed the most
relevant issues in agricultural production in Peru, and helped resolve a wide range of managerial
and efficiency problems in the sector.

3.1.2 Government Reforms and Objectives: The project was designed to contribute to GOP's
overall reform efforts. The project's objectives were well aligned to the reform program and
reflected the GOP's priorities. Starting in the early 1990s, the GOP embarked on a reform dealing
with: (i) improving incentive policies so prices would better reflect opportunity costs; (ii) reducing
government subsidies in order to control the budget deficit and inflation; (iii) improving the
regulatory environment to promote private investment; and (iv) controlling violence and drug
trafficking. Specific to the agricultural sector, the GOP issued several decrees, including Decree
No. 653 of July 30, 1991 to promote investment in agriculture and the Supreme Decree of
October 30, 1991 which called for improvement and modernization of irrigation systems. In
addition, the GOP transferred the responsibility for Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation infrastructure to WUOs as early as 1989, a focal point of the Irrigation Subsector
Project (PSI) Project.

3.1.3 Irrigated agriculture was the dominant source of agricultural production: During the
preparation of this project, it was estimated that irrigated agriculture accounted for two-thirds of
agricultural output. The Pacific coast of Peru (Costa ) accounted for 21 percent of the cultivable
                                                        1


area and for 60 percent of agricultural GDP. Due to shortage and unreliable rainfall, all cultivable
lands in the Costa were irrigated. Therefore, modernization in agriculture focused primarily on
improving the irrigation subsector.

3.1.4 The irrigation subsector was characterized by inefficiency and infrastructure disrepair:
Assessment of the subsector revealed that except for a few modern irrigation schemes, most of
the irrigation infrastructure was old, requiring extensive rehabilitation. Less than half of the
irrigated land had a reliable year-round water supply. Inefficiency in water usage was observed in
most of the irrigated areas (average overall efficiency was about 30 percent at beginning of
project). Moreover, many large irrigation schemes introduced in the coastal region of Peru
starting early in the 1960s were not economically viable, and too many projects were driven by
the availability of fiscal resources. Fluctuations in resource availability meant that some of the
projects that began in the 1960s remained incomplete, while those that were completed suffered
from inadequate funding for proper maintenance and repair.

3.1.5 There were several additional problems in the management of the irrigation subsector:
These deficiencies included: (i) shortage of funding for O&M ­ expenditure for O&M stood at
US$20-$30 per ha, far lower than needed for a sound maintenance program. As a result, much of
the irrigation infrastructure fell into disrepair and was not functioning at full capacity; (ii) low


                                                 - 2 -

level of skills of WUOs and lack of an effective technology transfer system, as shown by the
misuse of agricultural chemicals and resulting in water pollution and environmental problems.
During project preparation, it was estimated that 200,000 to 300,000 hectares were adversely
affected by salinity and water logging; and (iii) absence of an updated legal system (water law)
which could have established water rights and in turn could have supported the allocation and
efficient use of water.

Modification in Project Design

3.1.6 The Project underwent practical adjustments without a formal restructuring. The following
key changes affected project implementation and are to be taken into account when evaluating the
achievements of the original objectives:

3.1.7 Reallocation of funds for 1998 El Niño natural disaster. In agreement with the Bank, a total
of about US$36 million of project funds (US$30 million of loan funds) were reallocated from
agreed project activities to carry out emergency works in an area of 435,000 ha of primary and
secondary irrigation infrastructure destroyed or damaged by the 1998 El Niño disaster. This
reallocation left a 35 percent shortfall in loan funds for planned activities and affected original
targets.

3.1.8 Japanese co-financing (Japan Bank for International Cooperation ­ JBIC)2 of about US$60
million did not materialize. The bilateral protocol agreement did not allow structural changes in
the project. Therefore, when it became clear that COFIDE (Corporación Financiera de
Desarrollo), a government-owned second-tier credit institution, and first-tier lenders, would not
participate in the project (see para. 3.1.9, below), the JBIC loan was put on stand-by. After the
project closing in June 2004, the GOP has applied for a new JBIC loan.

3.1.9 The cost recovery percentage of irrigation investments had to be reduced to a more modest
but realistic level. The principle of 100 percent cost recovery through COFIDE failed from the
onset of project implementation for the following reasons: (i) prior to the project, farmers'
payments for O&M costs, if any, were minimal. Therefore, expectation of farmers paying full
investment / rehabilitation and O&M costs were unrealistic; and (ii) the innovative approach of
COFIDE working with first-tier lending institutions failed, due primarily to high interest rates, low
service provision in rural areas, and WUOs' lack of collateral. The revised implementation
arrangements introduced a more modest but realistic cost recovery scheme, under which farmers
contributed between 15 percent (for rehabilitation) and 30 percent (for gates and measurement
structures) at the beginning toward investment / rehabilitation costs and full O&M costs.
Contributions for investments were collected by users and put into a joint account with PSI prior
to bidding for the works. Recovery of full O&M costs was made through water tariffs.

3.1.10 Limit on foreign indebtedness and on domestic budget deficits. This was the result of an
agreement between the GOP and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It was introduced after
the PSI project's approval and resulted in slower than planned implementation due to annual
expenditure caps. It also distorted to some extent PSI's implementation plans. It is one of the
chief reasons for the two project extensions of a total of 2 years.



                                                - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the LA was amended according with the reallocation of funds for El Niño emergency
works (see para. 3.4.1, below), the original objectives were not revised. Predictably, the original
project objectives and targets could not be met, due to the shortfall of funds. Nevertheless, as
project implementation progressed, targets were adjusted to the new realities. In retrospect it is
clear that formal restructuring of project objectives and targets should have taken place (in
addition to the Amendment of the LA). It would have allowed better monitoring and avoided
apparent gross cost over- and under-runs. However project implementation as such did not suffer
any setbacks. In fact, as implementation progressed, PSI project coordinating unit (PCU) and the
Bank team established new Performance Indicators, reflected in Annex 1.

3.3 Original Components:
The project's five components were well aligned with its objectives.

Component A: Irrigation Rehabilitation (US$102.4 million or 65 percent of base cost)

3.3.1 This component aimed at rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure for approximately 25 public
irrigation schemes. Through the 25 public irrigation schemes (or subprojects), the component
planned to cover an estimated area of over 200,000 ha and benefit over 50,000 farming families.
The rehabilitation works were designed with 100 percent repayment (cost recovery) of the
investment costs. The implementation of this component depended on credit to be channeled
through COFIDE to WUOs (see para. 3.1.9).

Component B: Institutional Development and Strengthening of Users' Organizations (US$6.0
million or 4 percent of base cost)

3.3.2 This component was intended to strengthen the WUOs in the project area (limited to the
Costa), to achieve full recovery of the cost of O&M and to ensure long-term project
sustainability. The activities to be financed under this component included strengthening WUOs'
capacities in the areas of administration (including the calculation and collection of new tariffs
which reflect full cost recovery), finance, and most importantly O&M of the irrigation systems. A
four-year training program was designed for: (i) organization leaders; (ii) technical managers and
their assistants; (iii) extension workers; and (iv) administrative staff.

Component C: Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement (US$38.1 million
or 24 percent)

3.3.3 This component sought to promote the adoption of technological innovations among all
irrigation farmers. The component had two major subcomponents: (a) training technical specialists
(extension agents) and financing their salaries, on a declining basis, over a three-year period to
assist with access to new technology; and (b) one-time matching grants from the government for
part of the investments made by beneficiary farmers to modernize their irrigation systems. The
base cost of this component included a contribution from the beneficiaries equivalent to about
US$11 million (or 28.9 percent of the component's estimated cost). Under the matching grant
subcomponent, with aim of supporting poverty-stricken farmers, the program envisaged the
provision of an 80 percent matching grant to farmers with fewer than 15 hectares and a grant of
no more than 50 percent to farmers with more than 15 hectares.


                                                  - 4 -

Component D: Project Administration and Monitoring (US$2.9 million or 2 percent)

3.3.4 This component envisaged the creation of a financially autonomous PCU under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG). The PCU was expected to be responsible
for intersectoral coordination arrangements and the implementation of the institutional
development, incentives program, and training subcomponents. The PCU was also expected to
evaluate irrigation scheme proposals submitted by the WUOs, on the basis of pre-established
technical, financial, economic, and environmental eligibility criteria. In addition, the PCU was
entrusted with the monitoring of irrigation subproject implementation and progress assessments,
the collection of baseline data, and the establishment of procedures to capture key technical,
financial, and operational information. To accomplish most of its tasks, the PCU was expected to
design and establish an information and monitoring system prior to loan effectiveness. The unit
was also responsible for coordinating the work of executing agencies which included COFIDE
and WUOs for the rehabilitation component; NGOs and external consultants for training and
extension components; and the National Institute for Development (INADE) for the Dam Safety
Emergency Program.

Component E: Dam Safety Emergency Program (US$7 million or 5 percent)

3.3.5 This component was aimed at developing an emergency rehabilitation program for critical
problems of selected dams within the Pacific basin of Peru. Activities under this component
included testing and conducting necessary rehabilitation of control equipment, valves, gates,
low-level drains and other outlet works, and generators in four major dams (Poechos, San
Lorenzo, Tinajones, and El Fraile), as well as completion of earth stabilization works at El Fraile
dam. It was also planned that under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, INADE would
periodically inspect and supervise the development and execution of an emergency rehabilitation
program for the selected dams.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 There were some modifications to the project components. Due to the 1998 El Niño
phenomenon, the irrigation program (Component A) was split in two, emergency and
rehabilitation works (see para. 3.1.7). The evaluation of the execution of Component A was
postponed from 1998 to 1999. These changes were reflected in an amendment to the LA in 1998.

3.4.2 In 2001, it was established that eligible WUOs would finance 15 percent for modernization
and rehabilitation works and 30 percent for gates (compuertas) and measurement structures (
aforadores), unlike the original plan of 100 percent of the costs of rehabilitation and improvement
of irrigation works, and they would actively participate in selecting contractors and in supervising
the execution and takeover of works. As part of the request for the first 18-month extension of
the Closing Date, by means of a Ministerial Decree, the WUOs' share was increased gradually to
50 percent of the investment cost.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory



                                                - 5 -

3.5.1 In general, the GOP's reform agenda in the agricultural sector was relevant in
articulating project components and objectives: The objectives were suitably aligned to address
the problems observed in the irrigation subsector. Lessons learned from experience in Peru and
worldwide were only partially incorporated in the project design (para. 7.1.2, below). It was a
continuation of the Bank's involvement in the Peruvian irrigation subsector (a fifth project ) and3


the project was a direct reflection of the prevailing thoughts (both then and at present) on
intervention mechanisms to improve the irrigation subsector's performance. A study by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) confirmed that the Bank's lending in 1995-97 rather
closely followed the strategy proposed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), including
Irrigation Rehabilitation (FY97)4. This same OED evaluation commented that the "project loans
that were approved in 1995-97 were overall well designed and incorporated lessons from
experience. Some of them, particularly the rural roads, the water rehabilitation and management,
and the irrigation sector projects included significant institutional development components that
were correctly identified as essential to project sustainability."5

3.5.2 Risk Assessment: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified several risks and
mechanisms to minimize their impact, with varying degrees of success. In the case of risks related
to lack of capacity, the project alleviated them by enhancing the capacity of WUOs. In addition,
peer pressure among WUO members was expected to reduce the "free-rider risk" (WUO
members benefiting from the WUO infrastructure, but not contributing to it). Financial viability
studies were expected to deal with risks associated with investment selection. The new Water
Law, under preparation at that time, was expected to deal with low water tariffs and the historical
legacy of not collecting the full amount of tariffs.

3.5.3 In other key aspects, risk assessment was weak and mitigation measures poorly understood
and / or downplayed. The principle of full recovery of investment costs, adopted by the original
project design, was infeasible and did not reflect known global experiences, or the history of
Peru's irrigation subsector. Furthermore, farmers were not consulted during project preparation
on their willingness to pay 100 percent. The project identified as a risk the possibility of low
participation of first-tier lending institutions, but believed that the significance of this risk would
be reduced by financial sector reforms and improvement in macroeconomic conditions. But
practical perennial issues affected the planned credit activities: (i) COFIDE's inadequate rural
branch system, (ii) COFIDE was unable to identify a viable system of collateral for its credits,
because farmers, the only land owners, were unwilling to cede their land as collateral for
collective responsibility of WUOs. In addition, COFIDE itself expressed insecurity about its role
from the beginning and doubted that local banks would lend to WUOs (para. 5.2.1, below). These
issues contributed to delayed project Effectiveness and became a major obstacle for project
implementation (see para. 3.1.9).

3.5.4 Project design was too optimistic in as much as Peru's irrigation subsector had suffered
protracted neglect, but the project planned a revolutionary change, a jump from negligible
investment cost recovery to 100 percent recovery within the five-year project, predicated on
farmer buy-in and on the involvement of second-tier banks which was never certain / secured
(para. 3.1.9 and 3.5.3, above). Furthermore, the estimation of the rates of return was based on the
incorrect assumption that the majority of farmers would change to high-value crops, once water


                                                   - 6 -

limitations were resolved. In practice, limited markets hindered the shift to high-value crops.
These factors could have been revealed with better up-front analysis.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory
4.1.1 The project achieved a satisfactory outcome despite natural disasters and other serious
issues mentioned above. The project's major achievements include (i) out of 64 WUAs, 50
percent are technically and financially fully autonomous, 25 percent are in the process of
developing full-fledged capacity and financial viability, the remaining 25 percent still need strong
institutional support and training; (ii) about 135,000 farm families benefitted from the project; (iii)
435,000 ha, some of whose irrigation systems were affected by El Niño, were rehabilitated and
reconstructed; (vi) about 5,000 ha were upgraded with modernized and pressurized irrigation; (v)
water conveyance efficiency increased on average from about 55 percent to 68 percent; (vi) cost
recovery for O&M increased from about US$ 7.8 million per year in 1998 to US$ 20 million in
2004; (vii) about 6,500 new jobs were created; and (viii) yields per hectare of cultivated land were
raised on average by 20 percent to 50 percent. In addition, the project had a significant poverty
impact, as more than 70 percent of farmers in the project area are considered poor, with land
holdings of less than 3 ha. On average, surveyed farmers increased their household incomes by 30
percent.

4.1.2 The project's outcome is measured by the following five indicators developed for this ICR
in consultation with the Borrower and summarizing the list of indicators included in the SAR: (i)
number of eligible WUOs (see para. 4.1.12, footnote #7 for eligibility criteria); (ii) number of
WUOs with considerably improved management; (iii) extent of private participation in irrigation
investments; (iv) O&M cost recovery; and (v) improvement of dam safety level.

4.1.3 The project's impact must be assessed from the perspective of the conditions under which it
was implemented. The 1998 El Niño phenomena had a devastating impact on the agricultural
sector in general, and on the irrigation infrastructure in particular. The impact of El Niño was not
limited to loss of irrigation infrastructure but also to roads and other supporting infrastructures
which had a direct impact on project beneficiaries. The 2001 earthquake, which resulted in major
damages to irrigation infrastructures -- mainly canals and drainage -- was another event the
project had to deal with on an emergency basis, although no funds were diverted for
earthquake-related rehabilitation works. These two natural disasters affected WUOs' ability to
invest, due to lost production and the consequent reduction in farmers' income. In order to cope
with these emergencies and dictated by the downturn in the economy, limited fiscal space, less
than the originally (and wrongly) foreseen investment cost recovery of 100 percent, and the
absence of the JBIC loan, the GOP was forced to revise the budgetary authorization for the use of
external and local funds. These factors directly impacted the pace of project implementation.

4.1.4 The project was designed with the expectation that JBIC would provide parallel financing
which did not materialize for reasons already noted earlier (see para. 3.1.8). This further
exacerbated the impact of resource limitations stemming from the reallocation of funds to El Niño
emergency works (see para. 3.1.7).



                                                 - 7 -

4.1.5 Project achievements are nevertheless impressive. Remarkable progress was made in moving
away from a system characterized by crumbling infrastructure, unfinished works, and inadequate
O&M towards improved efficiency, both in the management and rehabilitation of the systems, and
improved incomes and well-being for beneficiary farm families. The WUOs are now fully
responsible for O&M and they determine their priorities, participate in selection of contractors,
administer their finances and manage water sharing within their irrigation schemes. An observable
cultural shift toward self-sufficiency by WUOs in managing and operating irrigation systems has
begun. The transfer of responsibility for O&M to WUOs predates the project, but it is only
through this project that consolidation (i.e., strengthening of WUOs as entities capable to manage,
administer, and finance their irrigation systems) was made possible.

4.1.6 According to the Bank's database6 in Peru agricultural value added (at constant 1995
dollars) increased by an estimated 31 percent in 2003 compared to its 1997 level during project
implementation years. Because irrigated agriculture is the backbone of Peruvian agriculture, these
results can be attributed, at least in part, to the project's impact on the agricultural sector. For
example, production increased significantly in the project area, e.g., rice increased by 189 percent
and 123 percent in the north and central regions of the project areas, respectively.

4.1.7 The project benefited an estimated 134,000 farm families (see Annex 1 for impact and
output indicators, and Annex 3 for cost-benefit analysis). Yields per hectare of cultivated land
increased by between 20 and 50 percent, for all products. The project created an estimated 6,400
new jobs.

4.1.8 Due to modernization of irrigation infrastructure and WUO training, in the areas directly
benefiting from the project, water conveyance efficiency increased from 55 percent to 68 percent
(the SAR had predicted an increase from 60 to 78 percent). The SAR also predicted an increase
from 60 to 70 percent in water application efficiency. In fact, these efficiency indicators increased
(i) from 55 to 85 percent in the areas that participated in "incentive program" (irrigation
technification); and (ii) from 55 to 63 percent in areas that benefited from gravity        irrigation
programs.

4.1.9 Tariff collection increased from US$7 million in 1999 to US$ 20 million in 2004; this was
instrumental in the improved O&M activity and the regularity of O&M works.

4.1.10 Out of 64 WUOs in the Costa, 50 percent are now fully autonomous, 25 percent are in the
process of developing full-fledged capacity and financial viability, and the remaining 25 percent
are in the initial stages of self-sufficiency in the management of their irrigation systems. Farmers
were also active in modernizing their irrigation systems.

4.1.11 In essence, the project objective was to develop decentralized management of irrigation
systems in which WUOs would assume greater responsibility. As WUOs enhance their
management capacity, cost recovery is expected to improve and simultaneously reduce public
sector involvement.




                                                  - 8 -

4.1.12 The legal transfer of O&M responsibility to WUOs predates the project. However, only
through this project were WUOs enabled to administer and manage their systems, which is at the
center of the project's overall objective and is the GOP's decentralization goal. Tariff collection
for O&M more than doubled between 1999 and 2003 (para. 4.1.7, above). The capacity created
at WUO level has allowed the number of eligible WUOs7 to increase from 2 in 1999 to 33 in 2003.
The share of users' contributions to the recuperation of capital cost reached 15-30 percent (or
US$3.6 million) and 40 percent of the cost of irrigation modernization in collective irrigation
systems (or US$4.9 million).

4.1.13 The project also financed highly satisfactory reconstruction work in the aftermath of El
Niño, rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure servicing some 435,000 ha. In addition, the
rehabilitation work included the construction of a better disaster resistance infrastructure. The
project created a critical mass of WUO members capable of managing of their irrigation schemes.
Moreover, through technical support by agricultural extension workers, the project introduced
new technologies and transferred knowledge. Within the WUOs, the project developed
transparency in procedures and decisions in water distribution, which reduced remarkably,
conflicts among water users over water allocation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure ­ Highly Satisfactory (US$50.4
million or 49 percent of appraisal estimate).

4.2.1 As designed, the project foresaw that the WUOs would be able to undertake rehabilitation
and modernization by borrowing money from private banks. However, this did not materialize. As
a result, the component was modified in 1998 through an amendment to the LA. Execution was
transferred to the PCU with WUOs covering 15-30 percent of investment cost.

4.2.2 This component financed the reconstruction, rehabilitation, and improvement of civil works
which included 165 main intakes, 1,257 structures, 49 wells, and 313 km of canals. Despite
having available only about 49 percent of the component's original investment estimate, the
component benefited 125,200 families (250 percent of the original target and 41 percent of
families in the Costa) and 443,000 ha (222 percent of the appraisal target and 42 percent of the
agricultural land of the Costa). These works were the factors behind the observed improvement in
the availability and reliability of water supply. In addition, Component A promoted water
measurement and new water level control technologies in canals and automatic discharge
measurements. The WUOs' active participation in prioritizing works was instrumental in the
successful implementation of these activities.

Component B: Institutional Strengthening of WUOs ­ Satisfactory (US$13 million or 217
percent of appraisal estimate)

4.2.3 Under this component, the institutional capacity of 64 WUOs to manage the different tasks
of their irrigation schemes was enhanced. Financial and technical autonomy increased from 2
WUOs before the project to 33 (50 percent) by 2004 out of a total of 64 WUOs. These WUOs
are now fully responsible for their systems, including administering and hiring private contractors
and technical staff. The other WUOs are at different stages of advancement (see para. 4.1.1,


                                                - 9 -

above). A total of 80,103 farmers benefited from efforts to raise awareness about users'
institutional rights, and 187 Irrigators' Commissions (Comisiones de Regantes) received training
to build their capacity for O&M, tariff collection, and administration.

4.2.4 The component financed the training of members of the WUO in the following three areas:
(a)     18,709 farmers in basic concepts for the proper maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment, including O&M and preventive maintenance;
(b)     4,369 WUO members in cost recovery policies and water charge rate structures and
collection and in efficient administration of financial resources; and
(c)     5,724 WUO members in construction and contract management.

Component C: Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement -- Satisfactory
(US$19.1 million or 50.1 percent of appraisal estimate)

4.2.5 This component financed two major activities: (i) an extension program for the promotion
of more efficient irrigation techniques and cultural practices, as well as (ii) matching grants
program (economic incentives) to help farmers in adopting new irrigation technologies, with the
goal of achieving greater efficiency in the use of water and soil resources, increasing farmers'
competitiveness and raising their income.

4.2.6 The extension program was expected to be carried out through the training of extension
workers who would be responsible for providing extension services to farmers and who would be
partially paid by WUOs. However, due to the WUOs' difficulties in making these payments, an
amendment to the LA changed the modality of direct extension services to beneficiaries, paid by
the project, which gave rise to a delay in the start-up of such activities. A total of 50,744 farmers
participated in the extension program, of whom nearly 7,700 fully apply the knowledge they have
acquired, and 4,076 farmers have been trained in business management.                   Only modest
achievement was registered in establishing a market for technical assistance services paid by
farmers; in which 5,248 beneficiaries participated. Although the component has several
achievements, more time and resources were needed to achieve the expected impact. One activity
which was not initially foreseen but which responded to strong farmer demand was the
establishment of 102 production chains.

4.2.7 Activities under the incentive program also began late, due to the problems faced by
beneficiaries in obtaining financing. The project carried out five competitions for the allocation of
incentives for irrigation technology improvement, and implemented 252 projects with an area of
4,933 ha (75 percent of target), benefiting 1,022 farmers. The targets were not met largely
because, in the process of reallocating funds for El Niño emergency works (para. 3.1.7, above),
financing for the incentive program component was reduced by about 36 percent. Since the
average size of land per family in this case was less than 5 ha, a majority of farmers are assumed
to be poor. Contributions by beneficiaries have been increasing gradually from an initial 28
percent to 45 percent in the latest bidding event for pressurized irrigation. Total investment in
irrigation technology improvement was US$12.4 million, of which beneficiaries contributed
US$4.9 million. In addition to beneficiaries' investment in irrigation technology improvement, this
subcomponent led to other investments by owners, especially in fruit planting. Although the



                                                 - 10 -

amount of this investment is not known, beneficiaries' total contributions undoubtedly exceeded
the amount cited above.

4.2.8 The component is considered satisfactory because the following were achieved: (i) the
introduction of innovative technologies to improve irrigation efficiency, both in gravity irrigation,
especially through the technique of irrigation by multi-gate pipes, and in pressurized irrigation, in
which the project made several design improvements, overcoming previous, frequent deficiencies;
(ii) increasing crop yields from 12 percent in the case of mangoes to 80 percent for paprika; and
(iii) improving market access, especially through the establishment of 102 production chains.
When accomplishments are assessed against cost (50 percent of the original estimate), this
component is rated Satisfactory.

Component D: Project Administration and Monitoring ­ Satisfactory
(US$23.9 ­ 824.1 percent of the appraisal estimate)

4.2.9 This component financed project administration, including coordination of the different
executing agencies, implementation of the training and incentive programs, selection of WUOs
that had fulfilled established eligibility criteria, and management of project procurement and
financial responsibilities. It registered a cost overrun of 824 percent, as compared to appraisal
estimates, i.e. US$ 23.9 million, versus US$ 2.9 million. This illustrates a good case for formally
restructuring the project in view of the events described under 3.1.6 to 3.1.10, i.e. formally
reallocating funds and defining new targets up-front, so as to avoid apparent stark cost over- and
under-runs.

4.2.10 The apparent increase in ex-post project costs is to a large extent, though not exclusively,
explained by two main reasons: (i) the two additional tasks this component was obliged to
implement, i.e., emergency works for El Niño, as well as tasks originally planned for
implementation by COFIDE, and (ii) a two-year project extension. Other reasons contributing to
the high administrative costs were the contracting of an expensive international consulting firm for
Component B and an unforeseen number of short-term consultants. Most activities under this
component were carried out successfully. The PSI regularly presented to the Bank all reports as
stipulated in the LA and provided the supervision missions with all the requested information.
However, establishment and implementation of an effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system, including base line data and a detailed logical framework, were only completed about two
years before Project Closing (see paras. 5.3.1 and 7.6.2). Nevertheless, the PCU managed to
monitor and track progress towards targets adjusted according to changed circumstances (see
Annex 1 ­ Key Performance Indicators).

Component E: Dam Safety Emergency Program ­ Satisfactory: US$7.8 million (111.4 percent
of appraisal estimate).

4.2.11 INADE was responsible for the implementation of this component. The component
financed the rehabilitation of 4 dams with critical problems that were selected during project
preparation. The component financed improvements in the structural safety of these dams, the
installation of modern monitoring and other supporting equipment, as well as several studies.



                                                - 11 -

During the execution of this component, additional requirements surfaced that required addition
studies which were financed by this component. As an outcome of this component, the project
created a dam safety committee within INADE, which is responsible for periodic evaluation of the
safety of the country's dams. As planned, the project also benefited from a panel of experts who
on several occasions reviewed the works performed under the project and provided important
input on improving the design of works. The panel was instrumental in identifying weaknesses in
the design and implementation of this component, even though feasibility and diagnostic work
was carried out by renowned international experts during project preparation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
24.1 percent
4.3.1 Based on selected sample works in Components A and C, the economic rate of return
(ERR) for the project was calculated to be 24.1 percent and the net present value (NPV) to be
$3.16 million. The estimated ERR at the time of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is
lower than that reported in the SAR which was 38.7 percent. The discrepancies between the SAR
and the ICR estimates are mainly due to an optimistic assumption of crop switching to high value
crops and an expectation of major expansion in irrigated agricultural areas during project
preparation. However, mostly due to reallocation of funds to El Niño emergency works, irrigated
land expanded only slightly, by 2.2 percent, and the majority of the project benefits to
beneficiaries accrued from higher profitability from the same plot of land. On average, surveyed
farmers increased their household incomes by 30 percent, farm profitability by 45 percent, and 1.7
million man days of new employment creation equivalent to over 6,400 jobs. Aside from the
increase in agricultural production, the project has contributed to promoting production chains
with agribusinesses and input and service providers.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
23 percent
Similarly based on selected sample works in Components A and C, the financial rate of return
(FRR) for the project was calculated to be 23.0 percent, as opposed to 36.3 percent in the SAR.
The difference in the FRR and the ERR is mainly explained by taxation on agricultural inputs
leading to high domestic price of inputs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial
4.5.1 While the legal transfer of responsibility for O&M from the GOP to the WUOs predates the
project, actual decision making power was only transferred during the project. Before the project,
the main power remained within MINAG and the MINAG-appointed irrigation district
administrator, who made important decisions at the level of water management, distribution, and
tariffs. Through the project's training and institutional strengthening, WUOs assumed increasingly
more responsibility in managing and financing irrigation schemes. Today, the GOP no longer
finances any O&M work. WUO-elected officials gained more power and enhanced irrigation
system management. The irrigation district administrator now plays the role of technical advisor.

4.5.2 Not only are the WUOs responsible for the O&M of their respective irrigation schemes,
they have now become active partners in the selection of contractual arrangements, financial
decisions, prioritization of different works, setting of tariffs, and allocation of water quotas.



                                                 - 12 -

4.5.3 The increase in capacity is also evident in the improved irrigation water supply and
distribution, effective participation in the process of rehabilitation and improvement in irrigation
infrastructure (including prioritization of works, technical specifications, selection of contractors,
and supervision of works), and effective use of their financial resources. Due to the transparent
decision making process established, conflicts in water allocation have been reduced significantly,
thereby contributing to an improvement in social capital formation.

4.5.4 The project also supported the formulation of a water law (currently being debated in
Congress) that will be an essential ingredient in improving the performance of the irrigation
subsector. At national level the project supported the creation of a dam safety commission and
organized a panel of experts who accomplished several tasks that will serve as a reference for
future supervision and inspection of infrastructure works. The project also contributed to the
strengthening of MINAG and supported it in formulating the National Irrigation Policy and
Strategy (2003). It also strengthened Technical Administrations of Irrigation (Administraciones
Técnicas de Distritos de Riego ­ ATDRs).

4.5.5 The consolidation work has created ownership by WUOs that bodes well for the future
continuation of the decentralization process. Both the GOP (due to its goal of reducing the fiscal
burden) and WUOs have demonstrated interest in the continuation of the new institutional
arrangement.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The 1998 El Niño natural disaster and earthquake had significant impacts on irrigation
infrastructure. The reallocation of funds for El Niño emergency works, unavailable JBIC loan, as
well as fiscal limitations (GOP ­ IMF agreement), were key external factors that significantly
influenced project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Counterpart funding was not always timely, although the GOP is to be commended for
coming up with significant additional funds for the project, i.e. 193 percent of original estimate.
The delays in counterpart contributions has resulted in an Unsatisfactory rating in the project
supervision report (PSR) on seven occasions. Overall Effectiveness was also delayed nearly a year
following Board approval. The reasons for this delay rest mainly on the COFIDE component.
Conditions of Effectiveness included the establishment of a Subsidiary Agreement between MEF
and COFIDE, as well as the drafting of accounting procedures to make the planned transactions
between the PCU and COFIDE operational. From the beginning, COFIDE had misgivings about
its role, since it doubted that local banks would lend to WUOs. Once this component was
modified (para. 3.1.9 above), the project became effective.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The establishment of a functioning M&E system was the responsibility of the PCU. It was
delayed considerably, despite repeated reminders from the Bank Team. It was only accomplished
in the final phase of the project, when in fact the PCU and Bank Team had gradually developed
performance indicators as the project was implemented (see para. 3.2, above). The consultant


                                                     - 13 -

hired for the final evaluation of the project reported insufficient baseline information as a major
problem for regular and rigorous evaluation of project implementation. The PCU was also late in
contracting several consultancies, i.e., contracts for WUOs' training and extension programs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 As originally appraised the project's estimated total cost was US$172.4 million, out of
which the Bank's financing was estimated to be US$85 million (49.3 percent of base cost), JBIC's
US$60 million (34.8 percent), beneficiaries' US$11.0 million (6.4 percent), and GOP US$16.4
million (9.5 percent).

5.4.2 The SAR recommended retroactive financing up to US$500,000 for institutional
strengthening activities and US$2.5 million for Component E. However, due to the late start-up
of activities under Component C and the annual cap in project expenditure due to limited fiscal
space to finance investments through external resources, disbursement was characterized by lags
which led to two closing date extensions for a cumulative two-year period.

5.4.3 Recent estimates show that the total project cost reached US$124.6 million (or 72.3
percent, the main difference being the lack of JBIC financing). Total disbursements amounted to
US$84.7 million or 99.6 percent of the Loan amount. Although there were occasions when the
counterpart funds were not forthcoming in a timely manner, the GOP's estimated contribution
reached US$31.7 million or 193.3 percent of the original estimate. Beneficiary contributions stood
at 75 percent of the original estimate.

5.4.4 The project also benefited from financial assistance from the Japanese PHRD fund
(US$577,155.76), FAO and the German Agency for Technical Co-operation (GTZ) for
preparation and feasibility studies, respectively.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely
6.1.1 The key element of the sustainability of project achievements is the degree of effectiveness
reached by WUOs which currently are institutions respected by users and which, overall, have
demonstrated administrative capacity in handling technical, financial, and administrative processes,
including collection of tariffs, allocation of water, bookkeeping, managing the day-to-day details
of administering irrigation schemes. WUO committees are directly elected by the users and are
directly accountable to farmers. This has helped to establish transparency in decision making.
These factors will contribute jointly to the institutional and managerial sustainability of the
project's outcomes. About half of the 64 WUOs are advanced to the point where sustainability
during the economic life of the project may be expected. Continuous, timely training to strengthen
WUOs would further consolidate their achievements reached, while enhanced, specialized training
is needed to varying degrees for the remaining WUOs, to help them attain full technical and
financial autonomy.




                                                 - 14 -

6.1.2. A key factor in the strength of WUOs is revenue from sufficient tariffs. The project has
been able to generate a culture of prepayment of tariffs, in increasing amounts, which not only
permits the O&M of irrigation systems but also small modernization works fully financed by
users. The payment of increasing tariffs is favored by project activities that have increased
farmers' ability to pay, due to greater availability of water and to technical improvements in
irrigation and crop practices. The project carried out a detailed irrigation profitability study (see
PSR Seq. #16) to identify agricultural activities that may increase profitability and return. This
effort was meant to ensure that farmers receive an increasing return on their investment, since
farmers have clearly demonstrated their willingness to continue modernizing and improving their
irrigation systems, provided that the investment they make entails a higher return. Therefore, the
project's effort to raise productivity and ensure the profitability of farming activities bodes well
for its financial sustainability.

6.1.3 In 2003 the GOP, with project support, formulated the document entitled "National
Irrigation Policy and Strategy in Peru," which establishes several guidelines to ensure the
continuity of actions carried out by the PSI, particularly those related to the strengthening of
WUOs, improvement of large- and small-scale irrigation infrastructure, improvement of on-farm
irrigation, and irrigation research and training.

6.1.4 A special case is the sustainability of the Dam Safety Committee which was established with
the project's support. This committee, which is in charge of overseeing security in all of the
country's dams, is currently set up in INADE, an agency that, as a consequence of the current
decentralization process, is being decentralized to different regional governments. This may
negatively affect the continuity of the committee.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 As foreseen in the SAR, the PCU submitted to the Bank a satisfactory plan for the future
operation of the project. The plan outlines and describes specific actions and operational activities
to ensure the sustainability of the project's impacts.

6.2.2 While the project was fully satisfactory in its reduced scope (see paras. 3.1.6 - 3.1.10), many
of the original objectives remain incomplete and could be substantially improved with additional
financing. The GOP has asked the Bank for an additional funding of US$10.3 million (total
project cost: US$18 million). This small follow-on operation, to be carried out over a two-year
period, would primarily help strengthen existing achievements and train additional WUOs to
guarantee a higher level of sustainability of those which have already achieved autonomy (para.
6.1.1 above), and at least half of the remaining WUOs could also become technically and
financially autonomous. Beyond the original project objectives, the additional financing would
also help formalize water rights which is a crucial first step for the application of the new Water
Law, currently under discussion in Congress, and which received considerable Bank and FAO/CP
support in the past.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory


                                                  - 15 -

7.1.1 Notwithstanding original design flaws (i.e. COFIDE component) and protracted delays after
Board approval, the Bank conducted pre-feasibility studies, identified areas of immediate
interventions, and developed a list of monitoring and impact indicators, at the time of the SAR,
when the logical framework was not yet a Bank requirement for the SAR. The project team
foresaw the need to coordinate project activities with other Bank projects (especially with
agricultural extension to realize the full synergy and, thus, the impact of the project), and
partnered with other financiers. It also identified beneficiaries and potential risks and analyzed
environmental and poverty impacts.

7.1.2 However, the project design did not adequately reflect lessons learned from the previous
four irrigation projects in Peru and from recognized worldwide experience in the irrigation
subsector. The main issues of preparation / design were: (i) unrealistic 100 percent cost recovery
objective (not heeding local and international lessons); (ii) not fully understanding the risks of
using credit to achieve major innovations in rural areas (affecting the project's largest component
­ 65 percent of base cost); (iii) too many Effectiveness Conditions, suggesting rushed preparation/
reluctance to hold up Board presentation to get fundamentals right; and (iv) insifficient analysis of
economic projections and of predictions regarding farmers behavior, i.e., converting to high-value
crops and major expansion of newly irrigated areas.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory
7.2.1 The Bank supervision missions, on balance, correctly rated project implementation advances
and prepared quality PSRs, extensively used FAO's irrigation experts, demonstrated flexibility in
including additional activities imposed by the two natural disasters, and worked closely with the
project unit in improving project implementation and in seeking solutions to problems
encountered in implementation. The Bank teams worked closely with the PCU in improving the
project's "at risk" status. They also managed to adjust the Bank's procurement and other
procedures in order to accommodate and quickly respond to emergency situations and works.

7.2.2 Bank missions were instrumental in identifying and resolving problems, such as the
unrealistic target of full cost recovery and the lack of baseline data for an operational O&M
system. Bank missions also were consistent in their effort to ensure that project objectives were
not compromised in the face of natural disasters and frequent changes in project coordinators (see
para. 7.5.2 below). In addition, Bank missions were innovative in adjusting to changing
circumstances, as well as in providing technical solutions to canal management and pressure
irrigation. The Bank ensured that WUOs spent only a small and limited percentage of the water
tariff on administrative costs.

7.2.3 The supervision team did not formally restructure the project, when the events described
under paras. 3.1.6 through 3.1.10, occurred. Instead, adjustments were made in practice over
time, during project implementation, eventually leading to a logframe of indicators, adapted to the
new realities, as reflected in paras. 3.1.6 - 3.1.10 (Annex 1 ­ Performance Indicators - of this
report).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory



                                               - 16 -

7.3.1 The original project design was unrealistic in as much as the COFIDE component and the
100 percent cost recovery was concerned (para. 3.1.9). However, corrective measures were taken
early on, and major negative impacts were averted, largely thanks to increased GOP contributions
(almost double of original estimates).

7.3.2 Bank supervision missions ensured that project implementation did not involve significant
deviations from Bank policies and procedures on safeguards, financial management, and
procurement. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in advising the PCU on adapting to the changed
circumstances during project implementation. The qualitative guidance and support provided by
Bank and associated FAO staff during project implementation was of high quality. Thus, the
overall rating of Bank performance is Satisfactory.

7.3.3 The Bank's performance fell short in not properly restructuring the project to reflect shifts
in amounts needed under each component. This resulted in misrepresentations as far as over- or
under-expenditures are concerned, when comparing original cost allocations of each component
with actual expenditures.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory
7.4.1 During project preparation, the GOP passed important pieces of legislation, transferred the
responsibility for O&M to WUOs, sought to reduce the role of the public sector in irrigation
management, eliminated restrictions on use of agricultural lands as collateral for commercial bank
loans, and liquidated the agricultural marketing agency, among others. Thus, the GOP was
committed to its stated aim of reform as applied to the agricultural sector.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
7.5.1 The GOP's formulating the new Water Law and processing it all the way to Congress
during implementation of the project, as well as the elaboration of a document on national
irrigation policy and strategy (published in May 2003), shows the GOP's unwavering support to
modernizing the irrigation subsector. Although at project closing counterpart contribution
estimates show that the GOP's contributions were almost double those projected at appraisl, the
timing of the contributions often lagged behind the established project implementation schedule.
The discrepancy was mainly due to (i) the two natural disasters the country experienced and the
associated recovery works these emergencies entailed; and (ii) the fiscal restraints the government
faced (para. 3.1.10).

7.5.2 The GOP could have ensured better stability in the project coordinator position ­ there
were a total of six project coordinators. Nevertheless, the project's technical staff remained
reasonably stable, without being significantly affected by the frequent changes in directors.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory
7.6.1 The PCU was instrumental in adjusting the project and easily adapted to changing
circumstances (such as emergency works), managed project implementation according to the



                                               - 17 -

Bank's fiduciary guidelines, coordinated important studies, successfully dialogued with the GOP
to ensure that the GOP fulfilled its counterpart contribution commitment, and in general was
responsible for the coordination of project implementation. It was also able to adjust and take
additional tasks as circumstances changed (e.g., emergency works).

7.6.2 The project suffered from lack of baseline data for a functioning M&E system. The
initiation of the incentive program, Component C, was considerably delayed (para. 4.2.7, above).
In addition, contracting of some consulting services was slow (para. 5.3.1, above).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
7.7.1 The Borrower showed unwavering commitment to the project objective during preparation
and, on balance, successfully followed its commitment during project implementation. Although in
the face of natural disasters and fiscal constraints the focus and priorities temporarily shifted,
overall the Borrower's performance was Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 The project introduced several innovations; and it was beset by unforeseen events, all of which
influenced overall performance to various degrees. Here are the key lessons to be drawn:

   l Long lists of complex Effectiveness Conditions tend to create implementation delays and
        imply that project preparation was not complete. A realistic, sound project design should
        require only standard Effectiveness Conditions.
   l Formal project restructuring and target adjustments are a must, when significant changes
        in project funding and / or design take place (paras. 3.1.7 and 3.1.10).
   l Cost Recovery:
        a) An investment program for irrigation improvement based on credit with 100 percent
        cost recovery has a high probability of failure, if: (i) no prior willingness to pay and
        participate surveys are carried out; (ii) loan conditions, interest rates, and repayment time
        are inadequate for farmers' socio-economic conditions; and (iii) WUOs can not provide
        collateral to satisfy commercial banks.
        b) In an environment with virtually no previous culture of cost recovery, government
        support for a certain portion of the investment ­ on a declining scale over at least a three
        to five year period, as willingness to participate takes hold ­ is crucial for success.
   l Participation of users in the process of selecting, designing, executing and financing
        irrigation works, provides them with a sense of ownership, thus, assuring greater
        effectiveness and sustainability in the use and maintenance of works.
   l Transferring irrigation schemes from the Government to WUOs is a process that requires
        institutional, administrative, and technical support of associations.
   l Improvement in infrastructure must be accompanied by training and coaching of WUOs.
        For example, Government contributions used for irrigation works under Component A,
        helped achieve some of the goals of component B, i.e., making "eligible" WUOs.
   l Continuous, rigorous training of all members of WUOs is key for the success of the
        project. Such support may be necessary for several years after WUOs have achieved
        autonomy, depending on their internal structure and dynamics.



                                                 - 18 -

l The understanding by farmers of a market for technical assistance, for which they
  eventually are willing to pay, requires long training and awareness programs, as well as
  significant economic resources.
l Irrigation may be a good vehicle for broader agricultural development, as demonstrated by
  the demand of farmers for the creation of `productive chains' (the project created 102
  production chains ­ not foreseen at time of appraisal).




                                         - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PCU/PSI (see Annex 8 , Borrower's Completion Report)

               "AÑO DEL ESTADO DE DERECHO Y DE LA GOBERNABILIDAD DEMOCRÁTICA"




                                MINISTERIO DE ECONOMÍA Y FINANZAS
                                   DIRECCION GENERAL DE PROGRAMACION
                                     MULTIANUAL DEL SECTOR PUBLICO



                                   INFORME N° 158-2004-EF/68.01

       COMENTARIOS AL INFORME DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO SUBSECTORIAL DE
                       IRRIGACIÓN PREPARADO POR EL BANCO MUNDIAL



   I. ANTECEDENTES

   ·    El 20 de agosto de 1996 se aprueba mediante el Decreto Supremo N° 084-96-EF, la
   operación de endeudamiento externo entre el Perú y el Banco Mundial (BM) para financiar
   la ejecución del Programa Subsectorial de Irrigación (PSI), por un monto de US$ 85
   millones.
   ·    El diseño original del PSI comprendía la ejecución de los siguientes componentes: i)
   componente A: mejoramiento y rehabilitación de los sistemas de riego, ii) componente B:
   fortalecimiento de las organizaciones de usuarios de agua de riego, iii) componente C:
   programa de incentivos para la tecnificación del riego, iv) componente D: administración del
   programa, y v) componente E: programa de emergencias en seguridad de presas.
   ·    En junio de 1998 se suscribió la primera addenda con el BM, en la cual se acordó la
   modificación del componente A del Programa, debido a: i) la situación de emergencia por
   los efectos del Fenómeno del Niño 1997 ­ 1998 y ii) la falta de acceso de las Juntas de
   Usuarios a la banca comercial. A partir de esta modificación, el Estado asume el
   financiamiento total de las obras de infraestructura que ejecuta el PSI.
   ·    Superada esta situación de emergencia, se suscribe la segunda addenda con el BM,
   en la cual se incorpora la participación de las JU en el proceso de selección, financiamiento
   y ejecución de las obras de riego. Además, se modificaron los componentes B y C; se
   incrementaron los recursos para el componente de administración (D) y se consideró la
   ampliación del Proyecto hasta diciembre de 2003.
   ·    Se aprobó una segunda ampliación del PSI hasta el 30 de junio de 2004, con un saldo
   de ejecución al 31 de diciembre de 2003 de US$ 6.9 millones.
   ·    Actualmente, el PSI ha culminado la ejecución del financiamiento del BM. Sin embargo,
   se ha solicitado una ampliación del préstamo por un monto adicional de US$ 10.3 millones,



                                                 - 20 -

la cual se encuentra en fase de preparación.
·     El BM ha presentado a esta Dirección General el informe de cierre de la primera etapa
del PSI. En ese sentido, se adjuntan algunos comentarios sobre la ejecución de dicha
etapa, y además se incluyen algunas recomendaciones que deberán ser tomadas en
cuenta para la formulación de los estudios que sustentan la solicitud de ampliación del
préstamo.

II. OPINIÓN

·     La evaluación del PSI señala que existen aspectos institucionales y técnicos a mejorar
y que deberán tomarse en cuenta para la ejecución de nuevas intervenciones del Ministerio
de Agricultura (MINAG) orientadas al subsector irrigación.

·     Sin embargo, esta Dirección General reconoce los avances logrados por el PSI en el
subsector riego, especialmente en el fortalecimiento de las organizaciones de usuarios
(JU).


III. ANÁLISIS

1.    Esta Dirección General coincide con la segunda recomendación hecha por el BM al
mencionar la importancia de realizar un diagnóstico exhaustivo sobre las características
técnicas, económicas, educacionales, culturales y sociales de los beneficiarios. Algunos de
los problemas que enfrentó el proyecto al inicio de su ejecución se debieron principalmente
a problemas de diseño (componente A por ejemplo), los cuales pudieron ser corregidos con
la elaboración de un correcto diagnóstico. Además, es necesario que se realice un análisis
de la capacidad de pago de cada Junta de Usuarios para el cofinanciamiento de las obras.

2.    Con relación al componente A, esta Dirección General considera que es necesario
incrementar gradualmente la participación de los beneficiarios en el cofinanciamiento de las
obras de infraestructura de riego que se ejecutan con recursos del Estado. De otro lado,
será importante incorporar las metodologías de evaluación ex ante del Sistema Nacional de
Inversión Publica (SNIP), a fin de ejecutar las obras en su optima magnitud y dimensión.
Los parámetros de costos de inversión publica por hectárea, análisis costo beneficio y
análisis de riesgos, deben ser desarrollados con mayor profundidad.

3.    Con relación al componente B, fortalecimiento de las organizaciones de usuarios, esta
Dirección General reconoce el avance que ha logrado el PSI. Actualmente se cuenta con
33 de 64 JU elegibles en la costa, es decir más del 50%. Sin embargo, es necesario que se
implemente un mecanismo de cofinanciamiento por parte de los beneficiarios a la
asistencia técnica que se brinda al personal de las JU, con el fin de asegurar la
capacitación permanente de los directivos de dichas organizaciones. Además, es necesaria
una participación activa y directa en el diseño, aprobación e implementación de los planes
de capacitación por parte de los Administradores Técnicos del distrito de Riego (ATDR) y
de la Intendencia de Recursos Hídricos del INRENA. Esta Dirección General considera que
el PSI debe actuar con mucho mayor sinergia con los organismos reguladores y normativos
en materia de riego, especialmente en los aspectos referidos a los planes de distribución y
aplicación, entre otros. De otro lado, deben revisarse algunas de las actividades de la
capacitación, especialmente en lo referido a los gastos de los talleres, personal, movilidad y



                                            - 21 -

materiales. El impacto de los resultados obtenidos pueden obtenerse a un costo público
menor.

4.   Con relación al componente C, es importante precisar que a pesar de los esfuerzos
que ha realizado el Estado peruano en subsidiar programas con incentivos directos a la
tecnificación de riego, muchos de los sistemas de riego presurizado instalados por el PSI no
se encuentran operativos, tal como lo menciona CEPES en la evaluación realizada en
diciembre de 2003. En ese sentido, será necesario realizar una evaluación con la finalidad
de determinar las principales causas que originan este problema. Además, es importante
precisar que con recursos públicos se debería financiar obras comunes, y no a nivel de
parcela. Por otro lado, se debería incentivar con mayor incidencia el uso de sistemas de
riego tecnificado por gravedad, debido a que el costo de inversión es significativamente
menor al de los sistemas de riego presurizado, generando beneficios similares. De esta
manera, se podría generar un mayor impacto en el área de influencia del proyecto.

5.   Con relación al PERAT, esta Dirección General considera que las estrategias de
intervención públicas en este tipo de asistencia técnica, han evolucionado hacia la provisión
por parte del sector privado, y cofinanciamiento público. Los avances de los proyectos
INCAGRO, MARENASS, Corredor Puno Cusco son ilustrativos. De otro lado, si bien los
avances del PERAT son reconocidos, es cierto también que su intervención va más allá de
los objetivos directos del PSI, como es la eficiencia del uso de riego. El PERAT ha
abordado la problemática de la tecnificación en el marco de la rentabilidad de este tipo de
prácticas, y no directamente en la mejora de la eficiencia de riego. A nuestro juicio, el PSI
debe evaluar su intervención a su especialidad en riego, y mejorar la coordinación de su
intervención con otros proyectos y líneas de inversión del Sector Agricultura como el
INCAGRO o la Direccion General de Promocion Agraria. El PERAT debería focalizar su
ámbito de acción en función a los valles donde se efectúan los concursos de tecnificación
de riego, y limitar su intervención a temas de incremento de la eficiencia en el uso de agua
con sistemas de riego tecnificado, así como en su operación y mantenimiento. La asistencia
técnica debería ser provista por privados, con un financiamiento parcial e incremental por
parte de los beneficiarios, tal como lo establece el MINAG en sus políticas y estrategias de
intervención sectoriales.

6.   Esta Dirección General no encontró diferencias significativas en la ejecución del
componente de seguridad de presas, las metas físicas y financieras se ejecutaron de
manera satisfactoria.

7.   Con relación a los costos del proyecto, es importante precisar los siguientes aspectos:

·    Los costos administrativos del proyecto (componente D) se incrementaron de manera
significativa (824% sobre lo estimado exante). A pesar que la modalidad de ejecución del
proyecto fue modificada en el transcurso de su ejecución, esta Dirección General considera
que 19% de costos administrativos sobre el costo total del proyecto es excesivamente
elevado. En ese sentido, es necesario que el MINAG adecùe su estructura orgánica y en el
caso del PSI, mejore sustancialmente su eficiencia de gestion en la ejecución de la
segunda etapa.
       Cabe resaltar que parte importante de los sobre costos administrativos se agravaron
       debido a que parte del personal directivo del Proyecto no contaba con las
       calificaciones técnicas ni la experiencia necesaria para manejar este tipo de



                                            - 22 -

       proyectos.
       Del mismo modo, el proyecto al asumir directamente la ejecución de varios
       componentes       que     el  diseño     original   asignaba    a  terceros,    terminó
       sobredimensionando su personal.

·    Otro componente que incrementó de manera significativa su costo de ejecución fue el
de fortalecimiento de JU. Los costos de inversión se incrementaron en 217% con respecto
a lo previsto exante.


                           Costos del PSI: Exante vs. Expost
                                     (millones de US$)
                                 exante               expost           variación (%)
      Componente
                           BM GOP USU total BM GOP USU total BM GOP USU total
A: obras                   42.4    0   0 42.4 50.2    7.4 3.2 60.8 118%            143%
B: PES                        6    0   0      6 10.5  2.5   0   13 175%            217%
C: tecnificación - PERAT 25.58 1.52   11 38.1 10.6    3.6 4.9 19.1 41% 237% 45% 50%
D: administración          1.02 1.88   0    2.9 8.3 15.6    0 23.9 814% 830%       824%
E: presas                     7    0   0      7 5.1   2.6 0.12 7.82 73%            112%
contingencias                 3   13   0    16     0   0    0    0   0%    0%         0%
Total                        85 16.4  11 112.4 84.7 31.7 8.22 124.6 100% 193% 75% 111%




8.   Dada la necesidad de una segunda etapa para consolidar los logros alcanzados por el
proyecto, esta Dirección General considera que existen elementos que hacen suponer que
la sostenibilidad economica del PSI no estaría asegurada. Por tal motivo, se considera
indispensable incrementar la participación de los usuarios en el cofinanciamiento de las
obras de infraestructura de riego y en las actividades de asistencia técnica y fortalecimiento
de organizaciones, así como una participación más activa con los ATDR's.

9.   El PSI ha trabajado con un excesivo nivel de autonomía institucional, en forma casi
aislada, con un débil nivel de coordinación con entidades involucradas en el manejo del
agua: la Intendencia de Recursos Hídricos del INRENA, el PERPEC del MINAG y el INADE
del Ministerio de Vivienda Construcción y Saneamiento. Asimismo, el PSI no ha sido
propositivo en la institucionalización del proyecto en el MINAG. La formulación de un nuevo
proyecto debe empezar planteando la organicidad institucional de las entidades que
intervienen en el manejo integrado del recurso hídrico.

10. Esta Dirección reconoce la necesidad de diseñar una metodología de seguimiento más
estricta, que incluya la elaboración de una línea de base, la definición de indicadores de
resultados medibles y la metodología de evaluación final antes del inicio de ejecución del
proyecto, con la finalidad de determinar los verdaderos beneficios e impactos de la
intervención, tal como lo indica el BM en la recomendación N° 8 del informe de cierre del
PSI. Dicha metodología debería enmarcarse en los esfuerzos del Sistema Nacional de
Inversión Pública




                                             - 23 -

11. Por otro lado, dado que el Perú se encuentra enmarcado en un proceso de
descentralización, es necesario que se incremente la participación de los Gobiernos
Regionales durante la ejecución del proyecto, tanto al momento de priorizar las obras, como
al momento de ejecución y seguimiento de las mismas. Se sugiere que los Gobiernos
Regionales participen además en el proceso de calificación, selección y supervisión de las
empresas que estén encargadas de la ejecución de las obras de infraestructura. Asimismo,
se sugiere la participación de los Gobiernos Regionales en los concursos de incentivos a la
tecnificación de riego.


IV. CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES

La evaluación del PSI señala que existen aspectos institucionales y técnicos a mejorar y
que deberán tomarse en cuenta para la ejecución de nuevas intervenciones del MINAG
orientadas al subsector irrigación.

Sin embargo, esta Dirección General reconoce los avances logrados por el PSI en el
subsector riego, especialmente en el fortalecimiento de las organizaciones de usuarios.

A continuación se presentan algunas recomendaciones que deberán ser tomadas en
cuenta por el MINAG al momento de formular proyectos de inversión pública orientados al
subsector irrigación.

·   Los costos administrativos de un proyecto de inversión pública deberían encontrarse
en el rango del 8 al 10% del costo total de inversión del mismo.
·   Es necesario que el MINAG defina claramente el esquema institucional del Sector, en
especial con relación a sus intervenciones en el subsector irrigación.
·   Es necesario que el MINAG incorpore a de manera activa la participación de los ATDR
en la ejecución de sus programas y proyectos orientados al subsector irrigación.
·   Es necesario incrementar el nivel de cofinanciamiento de las organizaciones de
usuarios en la ejecución de obras de infraestructura de riego a través de mecanismos
competitivos de asignación de prioridades.
·   Es necesario que se cumplan con los lineamientos sectoriales del MINAG en la
modalidad de ejecución de sus programas y proyectos orientados a brindar asistencia
técnica. Es decir, la asistencia técnica debería ser provista por privados y cofinanciada por
los beneficiarios.
·   Es necesario establecer un sistema de seguimiento y monitoreo más estricto. Para lo
cual es necesaria la construcción de una línea de base, la definición de indicadores
cuantificables y la metodología de la evaluación final, para una correcta evaluación del
proyecto.
·   Es necesario incrementar la participación de los Gobiernos Regionales en la
supervisión, priorización y ejecución de proyectos de inversión pública orientados al
subsector riego.



Lima, 6 de diciembre de 2004

Dirección General de Programación Multianual del Sector Público




                                            - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

            mie-suzuki@jbic.go.jp           To: Pkoenig@worldbank.org

            11/30/2004 09:14 AM             cc: gcharlier@worldbank.org, ytanimichi@worldbank.org,
                                                m-sakamoto@jbic.go.jp, h-takeuchi@jbic.go.jp, c-osaki@jbic.go.jp
                                       Subject: RE: Peru - Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigacion (PSI) - Implementa tion
                                                Completion Report (ICR)



Dear Mr. Koenig

I am sending you our comments on your Implementation Completion Report for
the PSI Project as follows.

1. Page 2 (OECF) and Page 6 (footnote 2): Full name of OECF is ·The
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund·.
2. Page 6 (3.18): (·Japanese Bank for International Cooperation· ) should
be (·Japan Bank for International Cooperation·).
3. Page 6 (3.1.8): The place where ·JBIC·s procedures did not
allow........· says, should be changed to ·The bilateral protocol
agreement did not allow......·. since the structural changes in the project
proposed by the Government of Peru was not allowed not because of our
procedures but because of the protocol agreement between both countries.
4. Page 16 (5.1.1) and Page 22 (9.b): Please say ·JBIC loan· instead of
·JBIC funds· or ·JBIC funding·

Taking this opportunity, I would like to inform you that our head office is
planning one-week appraisal mission for this PSI project at the beginning of
January. We hope to be able to continue coordinating with you.

Best regards

Mie Suzuki
JBIC Lima Office


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

Footnotes for Main Text

1.   The project area was limited to the coastal region, "Costa".
2.   Formerly OECF (Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund) of Japan.
3.   The previous projects were: Loan 114-PE Irrigation Project; and 418-PE San Lorenzo Irrigation
     which financed works and land settlement in the San Lorenzo area; Loan 1403-PE Irrigation
     Rehabilitation I Project which helped the rehabilitation and reclamation of 40,000 ha in four coastal
     valleys; and the fourth Loan 1771-PE Irrigation Rehabilitation II which supported irrigation
     rehabilitation works in 34,000 ha in 1987 (credit suspended in 1987 for non-payment of arrears).
4.   OED. 2002. Peru: Country Assistance Evaluation. Report No. 24898-PE.
5.   Ibid. p. 10.
6.   WDI (World Development Indicators)
7.   Eligibility criteria are: (i) having a Technical Manager; (ii) preparation of realistic budgets that allow



                                                     - 25 -

efficient operation and maintenance of irrigation works and installations and reflect such budgets in
irrigation tariffs; (iii) implementation and application of the modality of prepayment of irrigation
tariffs; and (iv) having a fee collection percentage higher than 75%.




                                                - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

IMPACT INDICATORS (OUTCOME)
                     Impact Indicators                             No. At Project SAR Target                     Current Value
                                                                       Start-up                                    (June 2004)
 1. N° of Users' Organizations, out of the 64 in the                        2                   --                       33
 Costa, that comply with eligibility conditions          [1]


 2. N° of Users' Organization whose management                              2                   --                       54
 quality has considerably improved         [2]


 3. % of private participation in irrigation                                0                 100  [3]   * 15% improvement of
 investments                                                                                                networks
                                                                                                         * 30% gates, meters, and
                                                                                                            community works
                                                                                                         * 40% improved irrigation
                                                                                                            technology systems
 4. % of realistic costs of operation and                                  72                  100                      80.5
 maintenance (O&M) covered by water tariffs
 5. N° of dams, out of the 4 selected, whose safety                         0                   4                         4
 levels have significantly improved


[1]
   (i) to have a Technical Manager; (ii) to prepare realistic budgets that allow efficient operation and maintenance of irrigation
   works and installations, and to reflect such budgets in irrigation tariffs; (iii) to implement and apply the modality of
   prepayment of irrigation tariffs; and (iv) to have a percentage of tariff collection higher than 75%.
[2]Based on categorization A (14 WUOs), B (18 WUOs), C (22 WUOs) y D (10 WUOs). Only category D is limited in its
   development.
[3]Indicator established when Component A considered that WUOs should pay 100% of investments in irrigation works.




          Components                                     Results Indicators                              SAR            Current Value
                                                                                                        Target            (June 2004)
      COMPONENT A                    N° of feasibility studies carried out                                 40                 32
                                     N° of irrigation systems rehabilitated                                32                49  [1]


   Rehabilitation of irrigation      Water conveyance efficiency in percentage,                            78                 68
 infrastructure                      departing from 56% PSI estimate at appraisal
                                     (SAR est. at appraisal 60%)
                                     Area affected by "El Niño 1998" and                                   --              435,000
                                     reconstructed by the project (ha)
                                     Length (km) of improved and/or rehabilitated                          --                313
                                     canals
                                     N° of improved and/or rehabilitated intakes and                       --               1,422
                                     canal structures
                                     N° of improved and/or rehabilitated control and                       --                283
                                     measurement works
                                     N° of wells rehabilitated                                             --                 49




                                                               - 27 -

        Components                                       Results Indicators                             SAR      Current Value
                                                                                                      Target      (June 2004)
      COMPONENT B                    N° of users, out of the 350,000 in the Costa, who                    --        80,103
 Institutional strengthening         have become aware of their duties and institutional
 of users organizations              rights
                                     N° of Users' Organizations, out of the 64 in the                    64           64
                                     Costa, that have received training in operation and
                                     maintenance, charges and tariffs, and institutional
                                     management
                                     N° of Irrigation Commissions, of the 614 in the                      --          188
                                     Costa, that have received training in operation and
                                     maintenance, charges and tariffs, and institutional
                                     management
      COMPONENT C                    N° of farmers who benefited from incentive                         450 [2]     1,022
                                     program for irrigation technology improvement
 Incentives for irrigation           Area (ha) covered by incentive program for                         6,600       4,933
 technology improvement              irrigation technology improvement
                                     Water application efficiency in percentage, in                      70           85
                                     areas covered by incentive program, departing
                                     from 55% PSI estimate at appraisal (SAR estimate
                                     60%)
                                     N° of farmers who participated in extension                          --        50,744
                                     programs
                                     N° of farmers with paid technical assistance                         --        5,248
                                     N° of production chains promoted by the project                      --          102
      COMPONENT D                    UCPSI has a designed monitoring and evaluation                       --          Yes
                                     system; a logical framework and impact and                                   (with delay)
 Strengthening of Project            results indicators
 Coordination Unit for               UCPSI has a monitoring and evaluation system                         --          Yes
 project coordination and            implemented and in operation
 monitoring                          UCPSI complies reasonably well with the                              --          Yes
                                     activities and results established in the POAs and
                                     with the submission of reports required by
                                     institutions involved in the project
      COMPONENT E                    N° of dam safety programs executed                                   4            4
                                     Dam Safety Committee established and in                              --           1
 Emergency dam safety                operation
 program

[1]Refers to valleys assisted by the project with irrigation reconstruction and/or rehabilitation works.
[2]Considering that 1 system of technically improved irrigation belongs to 1 beneficiary farmer.




                                                                - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure      102.40          60.80           59.4
Institutional development and strengthening WUOs                6.00          13.00          216.7
Incentive funds for technological improvement                  38.10          19.10           50.1
Project administration and monitoring                           2.90          23.90          824.1
Emergency dam safety programs                                   7.00            7.80         111.4

Total Baseline Cost                                           156.40         124.60
 Physical Contingencies                                         6.80
 Price Contingencies                                            9.20
                           Total Project Costs                172.40         124.60
                   Total Financing Required                   172.40         124.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             12.50             3.40        41.10         60.10      117.10
                                    (12.50)           (3.40)      (38.50)        (0.00)    (54.40)
2. Goods                             3.20              1.40        16.00         11.50      32.10
                                     (3.20)           (1.40)      (10.10)        (0.00)    (14.70)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00        13.80         0.00       13.80
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.80)        (0.00)    (13.80)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00         9.40         0.00        9.40
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.10)         (0.00)     (2.10)
   Total                             15.70             4.80        80.30         71.60      172.40
                                    (15.70)           (4.80)      (64.50)        (0.00)    (85.00)




                                                   - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              48.40              5.00             3.30             56.70
                                           (0.00)            (42.30)            (3.90)            (0.00)           (46.20)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               7.60              1.90             4.90             14.40
                                           (0.00)             (5.30)            (1.50)            (0.00)           (6.80)
   3. Services                              8.80               8.40             12.40             0.00             29.60
                                           (7.50)             (7.20)           (11.40)            (0.00)           (26.10)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             23.90             0.00             23.90
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.60)            (0.00)           (5.60)
       Total                                8.80              64.40             43.20             8.20             124.60
                                           (7.50)            (54.80)           (22.40)            (0.00)           (84.70)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Rehabilitation of Irrigation   42.40                     60.00       50.20         7.40                  118.4               0.0
& Drainage Infrastructure
Institutional Development       6.00                                 10.50         2.50                  175.0
& Strengthening WUOs
Incentive Funds for            25.58         1.52                    10.60         3.60                  41.4     236.8
Technological
Improvement
Project Administration &        1.02         1.88                     8.30         15.60                 813.7    829.8
Monitoring
Emergency Dam Safety            7.00                                  5.10         2.60                  72.9
Programs
Physical Contingencies          1.20         5.60                                                         0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies             1.80         7.40                                                         0.0      0.0

Note: In addition the Appraisal Estimate includes Beneficiaries contribution of US$11.0 million for the "Incentive
Funds for Technological Improvement" component. The actual Beneficiary contribution was US$3.20 million for the
"Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure" component, US$4.90 million for the "Institutional
Development and Strengthening WUOs" component and US$0.12 million for the "Incentive Funds for Technological
Improvement" component, totalling an amount of US$8.22 million. Thus, the Percentage of Appraisal for
Beneficiaries for the "Incentive Funds for Technological Improvement" component was 44.5 % and for the whole
project was 74.7 %.




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Introduction
The SAR estimated an overall financial rate of return (FRR) of 36.3 percent and an economic rate
of return (ERR) of 38.7 percent. The estimate was based on 64 farm models in 10 subproject
areas1 under Component A (Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure). In most
cases, estimates of increased production values in the analysis resulted from expected expansion
of irrigated areas as opposed to crop conversion into high-value crops such as horticultural crops.
The prices used were those prevailing in December 1992 and adjusted to 1994 levels and the time
span used was 20 years.

In contrast, estimates prepared for this report showed an overall FRR of 23.0 percent and an ERR
of 24.1 percent. Unlike the analysis in the SAR which only accounted for a sample of Component
A investments, the post-project analysis also included investments in Components A and C
(Incentive Programs for Technology Improvement). The estimates were based on household-level
surveys of beneficiary farms conducted in February 2004, prices used were those of December
2003, and the time span used was 15 years2. Expansion of land which was expected to explain
most of the benefits occurred only minimally (only 2.2 percent of newly irrigated land was
created). Thus, most project benefits resulted from improved yields and from switching to
high-value crops.

Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Under this Component, 42 irrigation and drainage systems were rehabilitated and improved,
benefiting 35,838 families, more than 139,000 ha over 20 water user groups in 7 departments3 and
18 provinces along the coast. In addition, in the department of Tacna, 46 wells were improved,
benefiting 690 families or users in 2,655 ha. For this analysis, rehabilitation works under
Component A were broken down into three types of works: intakes, canals, and wells. For each
type of work, three samples were chosen based on the amount of investment in works, extent of
land receiving benefits from works, and number of beneficiary families4. For each selected sample
work, field interviews were conducted with beneficiary families to gauge the benefits received
from the project. 130 farmers were selected for Component A. A method was used to ensure that
the chosen samples reflected the actual land size distribution of each area.

The results show that wells had the highest FRR (33.4 percent), followed by canals (27.9 percent)
and intakes (8.7 percent). Aside from increases in farm income due to higher availability of water,
interviewed farmers reported increased regularity in the provision of water and a reduction in
damaging effects from floods. In the region of Galpón-Pativilca, Cabeza de Toro, and Sarmiento,
a significant expansion of a secondary crop took place due to the installation of the infrastructure.
Additionally, in the case of Sarmiento, a primarily rice growing area, the introduction of a
secondary crop, legumes, aided in reversing the serious salinization problem.




                                                - 31 -

Component C: Incentive Programs for Technology Improvement
In total, 4,933 ha and 1,022 farmers with an average farm size of 5 ha benefited from systems
installed under this Component. Evaluation for this component was categorized by a
representative sample of permanent crops (lemon, olives, and grapes) and an annual crop
(paprika). Furthermore, systems were broken down into farm-specific (individual) and
group-owned systems. 17 representative farmers cultivating these sample crops were interviewed
during the field survey in February 2004. Systems installed for lemon production showed the
highest rates of return, whereas those for grapes showed the lowest. Furthermore, in general,
systems installed for individual farmers as opposed to groups of farmers showed higher rates of
returns.

Internal Rate of Return Summary Table for Selected Samples
                                 FRR    ERR     Investment Area Farmers Inv./ha Inv./farmer
Component A                                    1000 US$     1000 person    $/ha   $/person
                                                              Ha
Intakes
Chuschuco                           4.7   5.6         1,087   1.6     520    697.3   2,090.4
Galpón-Pativilca                   22.3  23.4           163   0.4     473    403.8     343.8
Cabeza Toro                        10.5  12.8           182   5.6     587    32.7      310.1
               Sub-total: Intakes   8.7  10.3         1,432   7.5   1,580    190.0     906.1
Canals
Santa Rita Sihuas                  23.1  23.8           737   1.7     132    431.8   5,583.4
Sarmiento                           2.7  18.7           198   0.2      74    804.6   2,669.9
Huaranguillo                       34.1  34.3         1,249   1.9     803    661.6   1,554.9
               Sub-total: Canals   27.9  29.3         2,183   3.8   1,009    568.6   2,163.7
Wells
Well IRH22                          7.2   7.9           4.2  0.03       5    165.8     839.4
Well IRH34                         50.0  49.8           3.2  0.03       4    122.5     796.4
Well IRH60                         41.0  43.9           2.7  0.01       2    387.6   1,356.5
                 Sub-total: Wells  33.4  34.3          10.1  0.06      11    173.1     917.8
Sub-total: Component A            21.88  22.9         3,624  11.4   2,600    317.1   1,394.2
Component C
Lemon: group                       36.3  36.3           558   0.3     101  2,075.1   5,526.7
Lemon: individual                  43.6  43.7           319   0.2      19  1,784.2  16,808.8
Olives: mixed group                21.1  21.6           313   0.2      31  1,991.3  10,084.9
Olives: group                      18.3  18.5         2,410   0.2     146  2,482.0  16,506.8
Olives: mixed individual           27.2  27.6           384   1.0      80  2,387.1   4,804.1
Paprika: group                     22.4  26.9         1,957   0.7     164  2,648.0  11,932.3
Grape: individual                  16.8  17.0           773   0.3      39  3,043.4  19,821.0
Sub-total: Component C             24.1  25.4         6,714   2.7     580  2,459.5  11,576.6
Total for Components A & C         23.0  24.1        10,339  14.2   3,180     730    3,251.3




                                              - 32 -

Summary
Overall the works under the project yielded benefits in increased productivity, switching to
high-value crops, introduction of secondary crops, and the full use of established irrigation
perimeters. However, no expansion of irrigated agricultural land took place, as initially foreseen in
the SAR. Lack of a formal system of land titles and markets is believed to have hindered the
expansion. Aside from the increase in agricultural production, the project has contributed to
promoting production chains with agribusinesses and input and service providers.

Compared to projections in the SAR, both the FRR and ERR are lower (FRR: SAR = 36.3%,
ICR = 23.0%, ERR: SAR = 38.7%, ICR = 24.1%). Reasons for this are believed to be
unfavorable climatic conditions (severe drought) at the time of the ICR field survey (February
2004), difference in selected samples as well as differences in assumption used in the rate of return
calculations, e.g., the SAR assumes falling yields, production values and incomes of between 1-3
percent for the no-project scenario.

Footnotes
1. San Lorenzo, Chancay Lambayeque, Huaral la Esperanza, S. Rita de Siguas, Yurumayo, La Joya
     Antigua, Huara S. Rosa, Chili Regulado, S. Lacramarca, Sama.
2. Full results are reported in "Análisis Económico Financiero del Proyecto y Evaluación de la
     Rentabilidad de las Obras de Infraestructura de Riego: II Etapa de los Servicios de Consultoría -
     Informe Final", June 2004, Centro Peruano de Estudios Sociales (CEPES).
3. Arequipa, Lambayeque, La Libertad, Lima, Ica, Tacna, Piura. Tumbes, Ancash, and Moquegua
     benefited from El Niño rehabilitation work.
4. Selected samples for Component A: Intakes (Pachia, Pativilca, Pisco), Canals (S. Rita Siguas,
     Chancay-Lambay, Chili Regulado), Wells (#34, #22, #60 - all in La Yarada)




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/27/1992                3    FAO CONSULTANTS (3).
              04/10/1992                2    SR. IRRIG. ENG (1), FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS (1).
              08/25/1992                5    SR. IRRG. ENG.(1) LAND
                                             SPEC.(1) FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS(2),
                                             ECONOMIST(1)
              11/21/1992                3    SR. IRRG. ENG.(1), FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS (1), PRINCIP.
                                             IRRG. ENG.(1)
              12/22/1992                2    FAO CONSULTANTS (2).
              01/16/1993                2    SR. IRRG. ENG (2)
              05/24/1993                4    SR. IRRG. ENG (1), SR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1), FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              08/10/1993                4     SR. IRRG. ENG (1), LAND
                                             SPEC. (1), FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              10/28/1993                4    SR. IRRG. ENG (1), SR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1) FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              03/31/1994                9    SR. IRRIG. ENG (3), FIN.
                                             ANALYST(1), PROJECT
                                             ANALYST (1) FAO
                                             CONSULTANTS- LEGAL,
                                             ECONOMIC, IRRI.ENG.
                                             EXPERTS (4).
              06/19/1994                6    SR. IRRIG. ENG (2), FIN.
                                             ANALYST(1), LAND SPEC.(1)
                                             FAO CONSULTANTS (2).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/18/1994                1    SR. IRRIG. ENG
              12/1/1994                 6    SR. IRRIG. ENG (2), FIN.
                                             ANALYST(1), LAND SPEC.(1)
                                             FAO CONSULTANTS (2).
              12/20/1995                1    FIN. CONSULTANT


 Supervision

              02/23/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1); FAO -          S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              08/28/1997                2    CREDIT (1); TASK MANAGER         U               U
                                             (1)



                                              - 34 -

04/23/1998    2 TASK MANAGER (1);               U    S
                ECONOMIST (1)
09/25/1998    2 TASK MANAGER (1);               S    S
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
04/17/1999    3 IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);      U    S
                RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                AGRICULTURAL
                ECONOMIST (1)
09/17/1999    4 IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);      S    S
                RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                SR.AGRICULT. ECONOMIST
                (1); DAM SPECIALIST (1)
09/17/1999    6 AGRICULTURAL                    S    S
                ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1);
                IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); DISBURSEMENT
                SPECIALIS (1); DAM
                SPECIALIST (1)
09/17/1999    2 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);        S    S
                AGRICULTURAL
                ECONOMIST (1)
05/05/2000    2 SR.IRRIGATION ENGINEER          S    S
                (1); SR.AGRICULTURAL
                ECON. (1)
10/12/2000    4 SR. AGR. ECONOMIST (1); SR.     U    U
                IRRIG. ENGINEER (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); DISBURSEMENT
                ANALIST (1)
01/29/2001    3 AGRICULTURAL                    U    U
                ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                (1)
06/01/2001    2 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);        S    S
                AGRICULTURAL
                ECONOMIST (1)
09/29/2001    4 AGR. ECONOMIST (1);             S    S
                IRRIGATION ENG. (1);
                ECONOMIST (1); MONITOR
                AND EVALUATION (1)
02/16/2002    3 SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.          S    S
                (1); SR. IRRIGATION ING. (1);
                SR. ECONOMIST (1)
07/26/2002    3 SR. IRRIGATION ENG. (1);        S    S
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); MONITORING
                EVALUATION (1)
01/24/2003    4 LD. AGRICULTURAL                S    S
                ECON.(1), SR. IRRIGATION
                ENG. (1), MONITORING




                - 35 -

                                                SPECIALIST(1),
                                                PROCUREMENT
                                                SPECIALIST(1)
               02/25/2004                   4   SR. WATER RESOUCE MGMT             S    S
                                                SPCECILIST.(1), SR.
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER.
                                                (1),ECONOMIST(1), SR.
                                                IRRIGATION ENG.(1)


 ICR
               07/23/2004                  4     SR. WATER RESOURCE                S    S
                                                 SPECIALIST (1) SR.
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                 (1), ECONOMIST (1), FAO
                                                 IRRIGATION ENG.(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                198.9                         260.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      49.8                         122.8
  Supervision                             212.18                          997.2
  ICR                                        15*                            42.7
  Total                                   475.88                        1423.4**
* Estimate based on work plan agreement. ** Includes FAO cost and Trust Fund.




                                                - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Centro Peruano de Estudios Sociales (CEPES), FAO, Banco Mundial. 2002. "Estudio de la
Rentabilidad de la Agricultura de la Costa Peruana y las Inversiones para Mejoramiento del
Riego."

CEPES. 2004. "Análisis Económico Financiero del Proyecto y Evaluación de la Rentabilidad de
las Obras de Infraestructura de Riego: II Etapa de los Servicios de Consultoría ­ Informe Final."

FAO. Support Services for Irrigation Systems and Irrigated Agriculture.
http://www/fao.org/ag/aglw/waterinstitutions/archive5.stm#Int76

Mission Aide Mémoires and PSRs

Nott, G. and M. Svendsen (2000). "Irrigation Management Transfer in Turkey: Process and
Outcomes," in Groenfeldt, D. & M. Svendsen (eds.) 2000. Case Studies in Participatory Irrigation
Management. World Bank Institute. WBI Learning Resource Series, No. 20247.

OED. 2002. Peru: Country Assistance Evaluation Report No. 24898-PE.

Proyecto Sub-Sectorial de Irrigación (PSI). Informe de Cierre del Proyecto. Julio del 2004.

Several Project documents.

World Bank. 1996. Staff Appraisal Report. Peru: Irrigation Subsector Project. Report No.
13542-PE.

World Bank. World Development Indicators.




                                               - 39 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

                                                 RESUMEN EJECUTIVO

A.        FUNDAMENTO DEL DISEÑO, DE LOS OBJETIVOS DE DESARROLLO Y DE LA CALIDAD INICIAL

1.1       Objetivos Originales

El objetivo central actual del Estado Peruano sobre la política de riego en el país es "contribuir a mejorar la
rentabilidad y competitividad de la agricultura de riego mediante el aprovechamiento intensivo y sostenible de las
tierras y el incremento de la eficiencia en el uso del agua"; en ese contexto, los objetivos originales del PSI, aquellos
que se identificaron en el año 1997 y los actuales, son plenamente concordantes con esta política de Estado.

Durante la ejecución del proyecto se propuso una definición del "Marco Lógico" que permita una visión más
articulable de los componentes del proyecto y a la vez un plan de indicadores de desempeño y cumplimiento de
objetivos, resultados, productos y actividades

1.2       Objetivos Revisados

Los objetivos originales no fueron modificados y continuaron vigentes hasta el cierre del proyecto.

1.3       Componentes Originales

El componente A. Rehabilitación de la Infraestructura de Riego, fue orientado a mejorar las condiciones físicas de los
sistemas de riego existentes en la Costa, mediante la rehabilitación y el mejoramiento de aquella infraestructura de
riego en mal estado, considerando que los costos de las obras deberían ser pagados totalmente por los usuarios a
través de sus respectivas OUAs (JUs y/o CRs). El diseño consideró que las OUAs concertaran compromisos de
préstamos con la banca privada la cual actuaría de intermediaria de una línea de crédito administrada por COFIDE
como banca de segundo piso.

El componente B. Fortalecimiento Institucional de las Organizaciones de Usuarios, se basó en la ejecución de un
Programa de Entrenamiento en Servicios (PES) para desarrollar las capacidades técnicas, administrativas y de
gestión institucional, del personal directivo, técnico y administrativo, de las OUAs (JUs y CRs), orientado a mejorar
las condiciones operativas en los sistemas públicos de riego, obtener la recuperación de los costos totales de O&M y
asegurar la sostenibilidad del proyecto en el largo plazo.

El componente C. Programa de Incentivos para la Tecnificación del Riego, estuvo orientado a promover la adopción
de tecnologías innovativas de riego parcelario para conseguir mayor eficiencia en el uso de los recursos agua y
suelo. Consideró 2 sub-componentes: (i) un programa de entrenamiento a cargo de extensionistas; y, (ii) un
programa de incentivos para implementar sistemas de riego tecnificado a nivel parcelario. En el caso de los
incentivos, los mismos serían asignados a los beneficiarios mediante concursos públicos.

El componente D. Administración y Monitoreo del Proyecto, que a través de la UCPSI se encargó de realizar las
coordinaciones intersectoriales y la implementación del proyecto, así como el monitoreo y evaluación del desarrollo
técnico, administrativo e institucional de sus componentes.

El componente E. Programa de Emergencia de Seguridad de Presas, orientado al desarrollo de un programa de
rehabilitación de emergencia de 4 presas (embalses) de la Costa (Poechos, San Lorenzo, Tinajones y El Frayle) que
se encontraban afectadas por problemas críticos de tipo hidráulico, estructural y/o equipamiento especializado.




                                                          - 40 -

1.4       Componentes Revisados

El componente A tuvo las siguientes modificaciones: (i) en 1998, por una situación de emergencia a causa de los
daños ocasionados por el fenómeno "El Niño", se acordó que el Estado asuma las inversiones totales y la ejecución
de las obras de reconstrucción; las OUAs sólo cubrirían los costos de O&M y la rehabilitación de sus sistemas de
riego de tercer y cuarto orden; y, (ii) en el 2001 se acordó una co-participación de las OUAs y el Estado en el
financiamiento y ejecución de las obras de rehabilitación y mejoramiento de riego; las OUAs calificadas como
elegibles deberían financiar el 15% del costo de las obras y participar activamente en los procesos de selección del
contratista, supervisión de la ejecución y recepción de las obras. Se incorpora además la modalidad de obras
comunitarias a cargo de las OUAs donde la contribución del proyecto no deberá exceder el 70% del costo total.

El componente B no tuvo cambios. Se ejecutó en 3 etapas con 2 modalidades de ejecución, una primera etapa por
una empresa consultora y la segunda y tercera etapa por administración directa de la UCPSI.

El componente C tuvo los siguientes cambios: (i) en Octubre del 2002 se establece la implementación de un
programa de extensión y asistencia técnica para promover el uso de técnicas más eficientes y métodos de riego y
prácticas de cultivos, en reemplazo del entrenamiento de extensionistas y financiamiento de sus salarios (durante 3
años con reducción progresiva de los mismos); y, (ii) en Octubre del 2002 se establece en el programa de incentivos
la contribución del proyecto en el financiamiento de hasta el 70% de los costos de los instrumentos y equipos (tales
como medidores de agua) para mejorar el manejo de agua por las OUAs.

El componente D tuvo que ser modificado como consecuencia del cambio producido en la ejecución del componente
A, estableciéndose en Junio de 1998 que la UCPSI se encargue de la ejecución de los componentes A, B, C y D, y el
E a través del INADE. El componente E no sufrió cambios.

1.5       Calidad al Inicio

Se considera moderadamente satisfactoria porque consideró casi todos los aspectos técnicos e institucionales que
tienen relación estrecha con una eficiente gestión del agua de riego. Todos los componentes tienen como común
denominador mejorar la eficiencia de los sistemas de riego.

El proyecto es inédito en su diseño y estrategia de ejecución porque plantea, por primera vez, la participación
financiera de los usuarios de riego y sus OUAs en los costos de rehabilitación, mejoramiento, operación y
mantenimiento de sus sistemas de riego. Asimismo, fue consistente con la estrategia del BIRF de apoyar los
esfuerzos que realiza el Gobierno en desarrollar y dar sostenibilidad a su agricultura, así como, con las prioridades
que tiene el país respecto del rol del Sector en el desarrollo de la economía.

Esta calidad de inicio se vio afectada por la inadecuada estrategia de ejecución original del componente A, que
nunca pudo ponerse en práctica y tuvo que ser cambiada durante su ejecución tal como se indica en el numeral 1.4,
debido principalmente a que no consideró un diagnóstico detallado previo del nivel de ingresos y la capacidad de
pago de los usuarios de riego y de las OUAs y se fundamentó en 2 supuestos que hasta la fecha no se han dado: (i)
la participación activa del sistema financiero nacional en la parte operativa del proyecto; y, (ii) la dación de una nueva
Ley de Aguas incluyendo el establecimiento de los derechos reales de su aprovechamiento.


B.        CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS Y RESULTADOS

2.1       Impactos/Cumplimiento de Objetivos



                                                         - 41 -

El proyecto ha cumplido en forma satisfactoria con su finalidad, propósito y objetivos específicos, y con las metas
establecidas en sus diferentes componentes. La población objetivo confirma que hay un incremento en el uso
extensivo e intensivo de sus tierras y un mayor fortalecimiento de la institucionalidad rural en donde el PSI realizó
sus acciones. El proyecto también contribuyó a aumentar la producción y productividad agrícola y por ende en los
ingresos de los agricultores.

Existe un alto grado de satisfacción entre los usuarios respecto a la confiabilidad de sus sistemas de riego debido a:
(i) la calidad de las obras rehabilitadas o mejoradas; (ii) los avances logrados en la capacidad de gestión de dichos
sistemas de riego por sus respectivas OUAs; y, (iii) la mayor transparencia de los procedimientos y decisiones en
torno a la distribución del agua reduciéndose al mínimo la arbitrariedad en su reparto.

Los objetivos del proyecto se concentraron básicamente en 2 categorías: objetivos físicos y desarrollo institucional,
ambos con un grado de cumplimiento satisfactorio.

Cumplimiento del objetivo 1

El desarrollo de la capacidad de las JUs para la gestión descentralizada y eficiente de los sistemas de riego ha sido
cumplido de manera altamente satisfactoria, porque se han mejorado todas las condiciones necesarias para
posibilitar la sostenibilidad económica y operativa de los sistemas de riego, tal como se evidencian con los siguientes
logros obtenidos: (i) 50% de las 64 JUs existentes han alcanzado un proceso sostenido y ascendente de sus
capacidades de gestión y el otro 50% se encuentra en una etapa de franco proceso de desarrollo; (ii) el
abastecimiento de agua a los usuarios se ha mejorado en suficiencia y oportunidad, con un incremento promedio de
la disponibilidad hídrica del 14%; (iii) incremento sostenido de la cobranza anual de las tarifas de agua (de casi US$
7 millones en 1999 a US$ 15.6 millones en el 2003, con tendencia ascendente); (iv) incremento del gasto en O&M en
relación con el presupuesto total ejecutado anualmente por las JUs (US$ 8.5 millones en el año 1999 a US$ 13.2
millones en el año 2003); (v) aumento sostenido del número de JUs elegibles para acceder al financiamiento de sus
obras de mejoramiento de riego en el marco del proyecto; de 2 JUs elegibles (3.1% del total de JUs) al inicio a 33
JUs elegibles (52% del total de JUs) al término del proyecto; y, (vi) significativa mejora de la calidad de la gestión
técnica, administrativa e institucional, en 54 JUs de las 64 existentes (14 JUs se encuentran en la categoría A, 18 en
la categoría B y 22 en la categoría C. Las 10 JUs de la categoría D tienen fuertes limitaciones para su desarrollo).

Cumplimiento del objetivo 2

La reducción del papel del sector público en las irrigaciones ha sido un objetivo que se cumplió en forma satisfactoria
que se constata principalmente con los siguientes logros: (i) participación significativa de 20 OUAs en el
financiamiento de las obras de mejoramiento de riego, obras comunitarias y compuertas y medidores (US$ 3.6
millones) y el incremento del aporte de los agricultores en los costos de inversión de los sistemas de riego
tecnificado (US$ 4.9 millones); (ii) evolución anual creciente de los costos en O&M asumidos por las OUAs (US$ 8.5
millones en 1999 a US$ 13.2 millones en el 2003); (iii) transformación del rol intervensionista y ejecutor del Estado a
otro de promotor, normativo y supervisor; y, (iv) mayor participación de las OUAs en la ejecución de estudios, obras
y actividades productivas agropecuarias (financiamiento de las obras de mejoramiento de riego y en la priorización,
preparación de expedientes técnicos, vigilancia y supervisión de la ejecución de sus obras).


C.         Cumplimiento del objetivo 3

Este objetivo, asegurar la recuperación de los costos de inversión y de operación y mantenimiento de los
sistemas de riego, tuvo un desempeño satisfactorio, sustentada por los siguientes logros: (i) contribución de
las OUAs con US$ 3.6 millones de una inversión total de US$ 24 millones (obras de mejoramiento de



                                                          - 42 -

riego, obras comunitarias y rehabilitación de pozos) cuando anteriormente no había ninguna contribución
de las OUAs a este tipo de obras; (ii) contribución de los agricultores con US$ 4.9 millones de un costo
total de US$ 12.4 millones en sistemas de riego tecnificado; y, (iii) costos de O&M bajo responsabilidad
completa de las OUAs. Los recursos financieros que las OUAs destinan a O&M han evolucionado

anualmente en forma significativa alcanzando en la actualidad (a cifras del 2003) un monto de US$ 13.2 millones.

D.       Otros objetivos alcanzados

El proyecto ha contribuido de manera satisfactoria con el objetivo de mejorar la eficiencia de riego a nivel de sistema
y en el ámbito parcelario en aquellas zonas donde tuvo intervención directa; así: (i) mejoró sensiblemente la
eficiencia de conducción de riego en la mayoría de los sistemas públicos de riego administrados por las OUAs, de
80% en la situación ex ante a 81% actualmente; (ii) mejoró significativamente la eficiencia distribución de riego en la
mayoría de los sistemas públicos de riego administrados por las OUAs, de 70% en la situación ex ante a 79%
actualmente; y, (iii) aunque en áreas pequeñas, en parcelas integrales demostrativas, mejoró la eficiencia de riego
parcelario alcanzando en promedio 63% de eficiencia cuando la eficiencia ex ante se estima entre el 50 y el 60% en
riego convencional por gravedad.

El proyecto también ha contribuido satisfactoriamente en el aspecto de la gestión empresarial de los agricultores,
logrando los siguientes resultados: (i) crear una masa crítica de 18,000 productores aptos para organizarse en
grupos y formar empresas, cadenas productivas u otras actividades productivas agropecuarias; (ii) capacitar y
entrenar a 600 promotores aptos para participar en la generación, implementación y gestión de cadenas productivas
y a 190 profesionales como operadores de riego parcelario y de gestión de agro-negocios; y, (iii) promover 53
cadenas productivas actualmente formadas y 49 cadenas en proceso de formación involucrando una superficie de
unos 5,030 ha y la participación de alrededor de 1,582 productores.

2.2      Resultados por Componentes

A.        Rehabilitación de infraestructura de riego

Desempeño satisfactorio porque la mayoría de las metas alcanzadas superan las programadas como el aumento de
disponibilidad de agua (entre 14 y 35% versus 30% programado) y la participación de las OUAs en el financiamiento
de las obras de mejoramiento de riego (20 JUs de 12 JUs programadas y S/. 10.8 millones de 11.5 millones
programados) y algunas se encuentran ligeramente por debajo como el caso de las OUAs elegibles (33 JUs
elegibles de 35 programadas).

Se ha ejecutado la reconstrucción, rehabilitación y mejoramiento de un total de 165 bocatomas, 313 km de canales,
1,257 obras de arte (obras complementarias de los sistemas de riego), 283 compuertas y 49 pozos multi-fincas con
una inversión total de US$ 52 millones, beneficiando a unas 443,500 ha (51% del área total de riego de la Costa) y
alrededor de 125,200 familias rurales (41% del total de la región). Las OUAs han participado en las decisiones e
inversiones de las obras (priorización de las obras, preparación de los expedientes técnicos, vigilancia y supervisión
de la ejecución de las obras).

La calidad de las obras y los logros obtenidos son percibidos y reconocidos por los usuarios por el aumento de la
disponibilidad de agua y la seguridad de su abastecimiento.

B.       Fortalecimiento institucional de las organizaciones de usuarios

Desempeño altamente satisfactorio porque con una estrategia y modalidad inédita de ejecución ha logrado un
cambio positivo y significativo en el fortalecimiento institucional de las OUAs. Se consiguió una fuerte y estrecha



                                                        - 43 -

empatía y sinergia entre los entrenadores del PES y sus entrenados (personal directivo, técnico y administrativo de
las OUAs) para el logro de los resultados.

Se implementó con instrumentos de gestión de O&M, C&T y GI, en las 64 JUs, a 186 CRs de 666 CRs existentes y
se capacitó al personal directivo, técnico y administrativo de las OUAs en el uso de dichos instrumentos. Se entrenó
a 9,419 personas y se capacitó a 28,802 entre directivos, personal técnico y administrativo y usuarios de las 186
CRs, mediante 7,294 eventos de capacitación ejecutados.

En general, todos los indicadores cuantitativos muestran evolución positiva. Se mejoró significativamente la eficiencia
de distribución y de operación en los sistemas públicos de riego donde el PES intervino directamente,
incrementándose la eficiencia de distribución de riego en 9%. Se incrementó la recaudación global de las tarifas
(vigentes y atrasadas) en casi el doble (de US$ 10.7 millones a US$ 20.5 millones), las tarifas vigentes en más del
doble (de US$ 6.9 millones a US$ 15.6 millones) y las tarifas atrasadas que alcanzaron un monto total acumulado de
US$ 23.2 millones; y, se logró aumentar las eficiencias de cobranza de tarifas vigente (relación entre las tarifas
vigentes y el monto puesto en cobranza) de 41.5% a 75.5% así como la ejecución presupuestal que muestra gastos
significativos para O&M incrementándose de US$ 8.5 millones en 1999 a US$ 13.2 millones en el 2003.

C.        Programa de incentivos para el mejoramiento tecnológico

Desempeño satisfactorio porque en conjunto, los programas de incentivos para la tecnificación del riego y de
extensión en riego parcelario y asistencia técnica en prácticas culturales, han fomentado en los agricultores un
mayor interés sobre la necesidad de tecnificar el riego de sus parcelas cubriendo el ámbito correspondiente a 30
valles.

El PIRT realizó 5 concursos de incentivos implementando 252 sistemas de riego tecnificado parcelario, con una
inversión total de US$ 12.4 millones beneficiando a 4,933 ha y 1,022 familias. El aporte de los beneficiarios alcanzó
el 39.6% de dicha inversión (US$ 4.9 millones).

El PERAT logró que 16,355 agricultores adquieran capacidades para realizar un manejo eficiente del riego parcelario
y prácticas culturales de cultivos, del cual casi 7,700 aplican plenamente los conocimientos adquiridos y 3,680
cuentan con capacidades en gestión empresarial. Ha beneficiado con asistencia técnica a 1,941 agricultores (65%
de la meta programada) y capacitó a 190 profesionales en aspectos de asistencia técnica (actualmente aptos para
brindar este servicio). Ha alcanzado eficiencias de aplicación de agua de 63% en riego tradicional por gravedad
cuando anteriormente no se sobrepasaba el 60% de eficiencia de riego parcelario en las PIDs.

D.        Administración y monitoreo del proyecto

Desempeño satisfactorio lográndose implementar, poner en marcha y ejecutar las actividades de los otros
componentes. En los 2 últimos años de ejecución del proyecto, se implementó y operó un adecuado sistema de
monitoreo y evaluación con marco lógico e indicadores de impacto, efectos y cumplimiento de metas, así como,
instrumentos de medición, definidos y bastante detallados.

La UCPSI cumplió razonablemente con las actividades establecidas en los planes operativos anuales, así como con
la presentación de los informes requeridos por las instituciones involucradas con el proyecto (auditorias externas,
informes de gestión trimestrales, semestrales y anuales, informes de evaluación y otros).

E.        Programa de emergencia de seguridad de presas

Desempeño altamente satisfactorio. Se cumplió con todas sus metas físicas establecidas y adicionalmente se formó
y estableció el Panel de Expertos en Seguridad de Presas, cuyas propuestas, conclusiones y recomendaciones, han



                                                         - 44 -

servido y sirven actualmente para la sostenibilidad de la rehabilitación, operación y mantenimiento de las 4 presas
que fueron consideradas en el proyecto.

Se promovió la creación y puesta en marcha del Comité de Seguridad de Presas en el INADE que se encarga de la
evaluación periódica del estado hidráulico estructural de las presas existentes en el país. Se ejecutaron actividades
adicionales a las establecidas en el proyecto con el aporte técnico y financiero de las OUAs e INADE.


2.3       Evaluación Financiera

La TIRF del proyecto al cierre fue de 23% que significa 13 puntos menos respecto de la TIRF ex-ante (36.3%).

2.4       Evaluación Económica

La TIRE al cierre del proyecto fue de 24.1%, casi 15 puntos menor a la estimada durante su formulación (38.7%). La
rentabilidad económica del proyecto resulta superior a la financiera debido a que la transferencia neta promedio del
proyecto y sus beneficiarios al resto de la sociedad en el sector agrícola nacional es negativa.

2.5       Impactos de Desarrollo Institucional

El desempeño del proyecto en este aspecto es calificado como Alto debido a que:

Las OUAs han logrado avances importantes en su organización y gestión institucional adquiriendo legitimidad ante
sus usuarios y frente a las instituciones del sector rural donde actúan, con base a: (i) la implementación y uso de los
instrumentos necesarios de gestión institucional; (ii) la mejora de la eficiencia en sus servicios sobre la oferta y
distribución de agua; (iii) su participación efectiva en los procesos de rehabilitación y mejoramiento de su
infraestructura de riego; y, (iv) actitud más responsable respecto de la O&M de sus sistemas de riego y al uso más
efectivo de los recursos financieros provenientes de la cobranza de la tarifa de agua.

El sector privado relacionado directamente con el proyecto (las empresas constructoras y supervisoras en el
componente A, los proveedores de equipo de riego tecnificado en el PIRT, los proveedores de insumos y de
asistencia técnica en el PERAT) ha mostrado visible desarrollo consolidando y potenciando las existentes y
promoviendo la creación de nuevas empresas.

La IRH y de sus ATDRs se han fortalecido durante sus participaciones en la coordinación y ejecución del PES, en la
identificación y supervisión de la ejecución de las obras de reconstrucción y mejoramiento de infraestructura de riego
y en los eventos de capacitación y entrenamiento realizados.


C.        PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DEL PROYECTO Y SUS
IMPACTOS

3.1       Factores fuera del Control del Gobierno o de la Agencia Ejecutora

Los factores que afectaron al proyecto fueron: (i) la ocurrencia en 1997 y 1998 del fenómeno climático denominado
"El Niño" que destruyó gran parte de la infraestructura de riego obligando al Gobierno a tomar acciones de
emergencia para reconstruir la infraestructura dañada. En acuerdo con el BIRF, se destinó parte de los recursos
financieros del componente A a la reconstrucción de los sistemas de riego de la Costa Norte y Central; (ii) la
ocurrencia en el 2001 de un fuerte sismo que afectó la Zona Sur del país comprometiendo la capacidad de las OUAs
localizadas en dicho ámbito y por ende la ejecución del componente A, debido a que en dicho año se estaba



                                                          - 45 -

iniciando la ejecución de las obras de rehabilitación y mejoramiento de las redes de riego con el aporte financiero de
dichas OUAs; (iii) la escasa participación de la banca privada en la parte operativa del proyecto debido al alto riesgo
del sector y al bajo nivel de rentabilidad de los agricultores. En los casos donde la banca incursionó en las
actividades agrícolas, lo hizo con altas tasas de interés y plazos de amortización cortos, desalentando a los
agricultores a acceder a los préstamos; y, (iv) la sucesiva postergación del Convenio de Préstamo suscrito entre la
OECF (hoy JBIC) y la República del Perú, por un monto cercano a los US$ 60 millones para el componente A y que
hasta la fecha no se concreta.


3.2       Factores generalmente sujetos al Control del Gobierno

La falta de aprobación de la nueva Ley de Aguas, que contemplaba el establecimiento de los derechos reales de
aprovechamiento hídrico y la promoción de un mercado de aguas, fue un factor que afectó la ejecución del proyecto,
toda vez que su aplicación hubiera permitido la actualización de las tarifas de agua; el uso de los agricultores de este
patrimonio como garantía para sus préstamos de inversión y de capital de trabajo; y el ordenamiento de la
distribución del agua en los sistemas de riego, entre otros.

En menor grado, las restricciones presupuestarias anuales ocasionaron su extensión para poder aprovechar la
totalidad del préstamo. Las ampliaciones acordadas fueron; la primera hasta el 31 de Diciembre del 2003; y la
segunda con fecha de cierre 30 de Junio del 2004.

3.3       Factores generalmente sujetos a la Agencia Ejecutora

La débil coordinación que existió con la IRH y las ATDRs al inicio del proyecto, así como las dificultades con los
aportes acordados con las OUAs para co-financiar el costo de las obras de infraestructura de riego y la contrapartida
de los agricultores beneficiarios de los programas de incentivos para la tecnificación del riego, fueron otros aspectos
que merecieron una gran atención por parte del proyecto.

3.4       Costos y Financiamiento

El costo total del proyecto fue de US$ 124.6 millones, sin considerar el financiamiento que debía aportar JBIC por
US$ 60 millones.

Los costos por componentes muestran algunas diferencias: el componente C muestra un gasto total de US$ 19.1
millones que representa la mitad de lo programado (US$ 38.1 millones); el componente B programado con un costo
de US$ 6.0 millones en la práctica ejecutó un gasto de US$ 13 millones (un poco más del doble de lo programado) y
el componente A gastó US$ 60.8 millones, es decir, US$ 18.4 millones más que lo programado sin considerar los
recursos del JBIC que estaban programados para co-financiar dicho componente.               En el componentes E; lo
ejecutado versus lo programado no muestra diferencia significativa.


D.        SOSTENIBILIDAD

4.1       Racionalidad de la Calificación de la Sostenibilidad

La sostenibilidad del proyecto se califica como probable porque se han logrado cambios positivos importantes en el
fortalecimiento institucional de las OUAs. La mayoría de estas OUAs han sido implementadas con instrumentos de
gestión técnica, administrativa e institucional y el personal directivo, técnico y administrativo de aquellas ha sido
entrenado en el uso de dichos instrumentos. Como resultado de este proceso se ha logrado que todas ellas utilicen
los instrumentos, automaticen en gran medida los procesos rutinarios de O&M, C&T y GI, incrementen en forma



                                                         - 46 -

sostenida la recaudación de las tarifas de agua y mejoren las condiciones necesarias para la sostenibilidad
económica y operativa de dichas OUAs y de sus sistemas de riego.

Los logros alcanzados todavía se encuentran en una situación que requiere continuidad en la intervención del
Estado para su sostenibilidad. El MINAG esta interesado en continuar con la ejecución del proyecto y esta realizando
las siguientes gestiones concretas: (i) la ampliación del préstamo 4076-PE con el BIRF por US$ 10 millones para
continuar con el proyecto por 2 años adicionales; (ii) la aprobación del préstamo del JBIC por US$ 60 millones para
ejecutar el proyecto hasta el año 2009; y, (iii) la aprobación del MEF por US$ 1.2 millones para financiar la ejecución
del proyecto en el período Julio-Diciembre del 2004.

La estructura organizativa de la UCPSI no sería modificada pero si trabajaría en forma más estrecha con las ATDRs
y la IRH del INRENA. También habría mayor coordinación con el INIA e INCAGRO en relación a los aspectos de
asistencia técnica y transferencia tecnológica en riego y prácticas culturales. La UCPSI tiene una experiencia
operativa de 7 años, cuenta con personal calificado que conoce las actividades del proyecto y ha desarrollado un
Marco Lógico, indicadores e instrumentos de medición bastante detallados que permiten y aseguran un adecuado
monitoreo y evaluación de sus impactos, efectos y cumplimiento de metas y resultados.

El desarrollo que se pudiera alcanzar en la agricultura de riego en la Costa y su sostenibilidad con base al
cumplimiento de los objetivos general y específicos del PSI, además de las condiciones técnicas e institucionales
que se encuentran en franco proceso de mejora, permitirá que las condiciones económicas y ambientales también
experimenten avances, incidiendo significativamente en los ingresos de los agricultores y en la generación de
oportunidades de empleo en sus fincas, así como, paralelamente una reducción de los problemas de drenaje,
salinidad y empantanamiento de las tierras agrícolas mejorando las condiciones de vida y de medio ambiente en
dichas áreas.

4.2      Arreglos de Transición hacia la Operación Regular

Las OUAs que han mostrado mayor desarrollo en su fortalecimiento institucional se han preparado para afrontar la
culminación del proyecto y están tomando las acciones necesarias para que los logros y avances obtenidos no se
pierdan y más bien se potencien, consolidando los aspectos de C&T y O&M e implementando sus unidades de
comunicación y capacitación para mantener permanentemente informados a sus usuarios y desarrollar las
capacidades de sus asociados. 53 de las 64 JUs existentes en la Costa han evidenciado avances notables en la
calidad de su gestión y al menos 32 de ellas se encuentran en un nivel de desarrollo suficiente para que con un
acompañamiento y supervisión técnica de las ATDRs respectivas podrían sostenerse por si solas.

El desarrollo del Subsector Riego en la Costa depende todavía de los recursos económicos del Estado y de la
cooperación técnica y financiera internacional para que en el mediano plazo se alcance su plena sostenibilidad. Aún
en el caso de reducirse el apoyo técnico y financiero requerido, es todavía posible que la sostenibilidad del
Subsector se logre aunque en el largo plazo, teniendo en consideración las siguientes realidades: (i) el notable
desarrollo de las OUAs en sus gestiones técnicas, administrativas e institucionales con base a la distribución más
eficiente y equitativa en cantidad y oportunidad del agua de riego, el aumento creciente y sostenido de la cobranza
de la tarifa de agua y la participación más activa de los usuarios de riego en las actividades institucionales de sus
OUAs; (ii) la participación creciente de las OUAs en las inversiones de obras de riego, en los costos de operación y
mantenimiento de los sistemas de riego y en los procesos de identificación, formulación y supervisión de sus
proyectos de riego; (iii) el mayor interés mostrado por los agricultores en invertir en sistemas de riego tecnificado
parcelarios; y, (iv) el desarrollo de los servicios de apoyo a la producción agrícola bajo riego, como los contratistas y
supervisores de obras de riego, los proveedores de equipos de riego tecnificado y de asistencia técnica y extensión
en riego, los operadores financieros y de cadenas productivas y el fortalecimiento de las ATDRs.




                                                          - 47 -

E.        DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO Y DEL PRESTATARIO

5.1       Desempeño del Banco

En términos generales el desempeño del Banco fue satisfactorio. El proceso de identificación fue ágil y consistente
con los objetivos de la estrategia del BIRF para el Perú y con el plan de desarrollo del Gobierno, en relación con la
agricultura bajo riego de la Costa. La identificación y el diseño del proyecto reflejan en su contenido la problemática
de la baja eficiencia en los sistemas públicos de riego, asociada al mal estado de la infraestructura de riego y a la
deficiente gestión técnica, administrativa e institucional de las OUAs.

Sin embargo, la ejecución del componente A según el diseño original establecido en el SAR no fue la adecuada y no
fue posible ponerla en práctica. El diseño del proyecto fue complejo principalmente en cuanto a la participación de
varias instituciones con características diferentes; la UCPSI sujeta a la administración del MINAG, la co-participación
de COFIDE del MEF e INADE del MIPRE. Además, su financiamiento incluyó a la OECF (JBIC) y el BIRF, con
normas y características institucionales particulares.

El proceso de supervisión del Banco fue amplio, oportuno y efectivo. Hubo un total de 22 misiones de supervisión, de
Agosto 1997 a Octubre 2004, casi el doble de lo programado pero con una extensión del plazo de ejecución del
proyecto en 2 años. Sus orientaciones y apoyo técnico dieron buenos resultados y se tomaron medidas rápidas
como la implementación del programa de emergencia del fenómeno de "El Niño", el cambio de la estrategia del
componente A, el desarrollo del "Marco Lógico", indicadores e instrumentos de medición de impactos, efectos y
cumplimiento de metas y resultados del proyecto y la extensión del plazo de ejecución que fueron debidamente
sustentadas con los documentos técnico económicos correspondientes.

5.4       Desempeño del Prestatario

El MINAG contrató consultores nacionales e internacionales para desarrollar los diferentes aspectos técnicos,
económicos, administrativos, legales, institucionales y ambientales del proyecto y recibió orientación y
asesoramiento periódico de misiones del Programa Cooperativo FAO/BIRF. Las principales definiciones respecto de
sus objetivos, estrategias de ejecución y financiamiento, fueron acordadas por el BIRF, el Gabinete de Asesores del
MINAG y la Oficina de Inversiones del MEF, respectivamente. La formulación se financió con una donación del
Gobierno de Japón bajo administración del BIRF, haciendo participar al PNUD Representación en el Perú como
administradora de los recursos de dicha donación. Se prepararon 32 documentos que sirvieron de base para la
elaboración del SAR. La calidad de dichos estudios fue satisfactoria por el enfoque, detalle y abundante información
que fueron de mucha utilidad para la preparación del SAR.

La implementación del proyecto por el Gobierno se realizó en un plazo menor a lo estipulado (6 meses)
cumpliéndose con todas las condiciones previas establecidas en el respectivo contrato de préstamo. Asimismo, la
UCPSI actuó durante la puesta en marcha y ejecución del proyecto de una manera efectiva, adecuándose
rápidamente a los cambios producidos y a las decisiones acordadas entre el Gobierno y el Banco respecto del
proyecto sin perder de vista el objetivo principal del mismo, a pesar de los factores naturales, técnicos, económicos,
institucionales e inclusive políticos, que se presentaron y alteraron el normal desarrollo del proyecto. Todos los
componentes cumplieron sus objetivos, metas y resultados, a cabalidad.

Tomando en consideración la actuación del Gobierno en el proceso de preparación e implementación del proyecto y
de la UCPSI en la puesta en marcha y ejecución del proyecto indicada anteriormente, en términos generales se
considera el desempeño del prestatario como satisfactorio.




                                                           - 48 -

F.        LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

1.        La necesidad de incorporar como parte de la ejecución del proyecto a los propios beneficiarios sea como
co-ejecutores y/o co-financiadores ya que está demostrado que los sistemas y procesos sólo pueden ser sostenibles
si los actores se apropian o empoderan de ellos. Esta afirmación se desprende del hecho que el diseño del PSI
consideró el aporte financiero de las OUAs en los costos de las obras de rehabilitación y mejoramiento de riego y la
participación de los directivos, personal técnico y administrativo y usuarios en la ejecución del fortalecimiento
técnico-institucional de sus OUAs, inédito respecto de otros proyectos similares ejecutados en el Perú que no han
sido sostenibles en el tiempo. Existe alta probabilidad que los logros y resultados obtenidos se mantengan e
inclusive se potencien porque existe una clara percepción de los beneficiarios respecto de la confiabilidad de las
obras ejecutadas, del fortalecimiento institucional de sus OUAs y de la tecnificación del riego parcelario promovida,
debido a que han tenido un conocimiento directo sobre la forma como se han ejecutado las actividades del proyecto.

2.        El diseño de este tipo de proyectos debe basarse en un diagnóstico exhaustivo de la problemática
incidiendo principalmente en la caracterización técnica, económica, educacional, cultural y social de los actores o
beneficiarios (Grupo Meta). Esta condición resulta importante para poder diseñar la estrategia y la metodología más
adecuada.

3.        La definición clara y precisa de la interdependencia que debe haber entre sus componentes y con el ámbito
de actuación del proyecto, de modo que converjan sobre dicho ámbito y obedezcan a un mismo objetivo común.
Esto es una condición necesaria porque de esta manera se logran establecer sinergias entre los componentes y se
evita que cada uno de ellos actúe en forma independiente y se perciban como proyectos separados del resto.

4.        El logro de una fuerte identificación y sinergia entre el personal del proyecto con la población objetivo es
una condición muy favorable para conseguir sus objetivos, resultados y metas, que puede ser obtenida mediante el
trabajo conjunto entre ejecutores y beneficiarios.

5.        La supervisión periódica de un equipo especializado externo (en este caso las misiones del BIRF) es
necesaria para que se encargue de evaluar y orientar el avance del mismo. Si bien, un proyecto puede ser eficiente
en su ejecución, existen aspectos (estrategias, modalidad de ejecución y otros) y situaciones (presencia de
fenómenos naturales adversos, restricciones presupuestales, falta de participación de algunos actores y otros) que
pueden limitar su marcha normal y que desde dentro de la organización no pueden ser solucionados. En estos
casos resulta trascendental la participación de dichas misiones que permiten dar soluciones rápidas y expeditivas a
los problemas presentados.

6.        La necesidad que los proyectos incorporen, durante su formulación y ejecución, sea con mecanismos de
coordinación y/o de participación, a aquellas instituciones públicas y privadas que directamente tienen relación con
los fines y sus beneficiarios.

7.        La recomendación para que futuros proyectos de estas características trabajen con mayor incidencia a nivel
de usuarios es pertinente dado que la cultura tradicional dominante de estos actores constituye una debilidad para la
sostenibilidad de sus logros y resultados. Es necesario reforzar el cambio de actitud de los beneficiarios no sólo con
procesos de sensibilización sino también con otros mecanismos de comunicación y difusión masivas.

8.        El Marco Lógico, su respectiva Línea de Base y sus indicadores de medición para el propósito, finalidad,
objetivos específicos y cumplimiento de metas y resultados, son referencias imprescindibles para la evaluación del
desempeño del proyecto. Esta clara definición debe partir desde su diseño y la implementación de los instrumentos
de monitoreo y evaluación debe hacerse efectiva desde el inicio del mismo.




                                                           - 49 -

Additional Annex 9. Map




                           - 50 -


