Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4076-PE
                            Project Agreement
                      (Irrigation Subsector Project)
                                 between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   and
                 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
                         Dated November 7, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4076-PE
                           PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA
DE DESARROLLO (COFIDE).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Peru (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount of eighty-five million
dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that COFIDE agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and COFIDE, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be transferred to COFIDE on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Agreement; and
     (C)  COFIDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) COFIDE declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Part A of the Project.
     (b)  COFIDE undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Irrigation Project Credit Manual,
which shall include the matters set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     (c)  COFIDE shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subloan
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     (d)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) COFIDE shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, COFIDE, in coordination with PCU,
shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
               and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of
               Part A the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with COFIDE on said plan.
     Section 2.04. COFIDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, COFIDE shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) COFIDE shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan. Without limitation upon the
generality of the foregoing, COFIDE shall participate in the
evaluation referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Loan Agreement
and shall thereafter promptly take, or cause to be taken, all
such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for
the efficient execution of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  COFIDE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by COFIDE of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
     (c)  COFIDE shall provide annual operating plans and quarterly
progress reports for Part A of the Project to the PCU at such time
and in such manner as reasonably requested by the PCU in order to
enable the Borrower, through the PCU, to meet its obligations under
Section 3.06 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of COFIDE
     Section 3.01. COFIDE shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) COFIDE shall maintain, and shall cause to be
maintained by the CFIs with respect to Sub-Subloans, procedures,
records and separate accounts adequate to monitor and record the
progress of Part A of the Project and of each Selected Irrigation
Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  COFIDE shall:
          (i)  have its records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and its financial state-
               ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
               expenses and related statements), and cause the
               records, accounts and financial statements (balance
               sheets, statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) of the CFIs referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements and of those of the CFIs for
               such year as so audited; and (B) the report of
               such audits by said auditors of such scope and in
               such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and financial
               statements as well as the audits thereof, as
               the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
or for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made
from the Special Account, COFIDE shall provide to the Borrower all
records and accounts necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its
obligations punctually under Article IV of the Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of COFIDE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Page  4
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify COFIDE thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                       Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          Director, Country Department III
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     For COFIDE:
          Corporacin Financiera de Desarrollo
          160 Augusto Tamayo Avenue
          San Isidro,
          Lima, Per
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of COFIDE, or by COFIDE on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General
Manager or such other person or persons as the General Manager shall
designate in writing, and COFIDE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  5
               CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO
               By /s/ Luis Quesada Incheustegui
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                                  General
1.   Part A of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the
Irrigation Project Credit Manual. Said manual shall not be amended,
and no provision of it shall be waived by COFIDE, without the prior
approval of the Bank.
2.   COFIDE shall constitute a fund for the rehabilitation of the
Selected Irrigation Systems (the "Rehabilitation Fund") which shall
be comprised of the proceeds of the Loan and the proceeds of the
OECF Loan. All withdrawals under Subloans shall be made from the
Rehabilitation Fund.
3.   COFIDE shall constitute, and operate thereafter, a reserve fund
to grant short-term loans, with an amortization period not to exceed
one year, to CFIs in the event of defaults by WUOs on Sub-Subloans,
in order to provide liquidity to such CFIs while collection measures
are being taken. Such reserve fund shall be established and be
operated under the criteria and procedures set forth in the Irrigation
Project Credit Manual. Whenever not required for the above purposes,
the proceeds of the reserve fund shall be utilized for the financing
of irrigation rehabilitation projects and other agricultural capital
investments under similar terms and conditions as those provided
under this Agreement for Part A of the Project and as further
described in the Irrigation Project Credit Manual.
4.   COFIDE shall enter into a Subsidiary Participation Agreement
with each of the CFIs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.  Said agreements shall serve as framework
agreements for each of the Subloans.
5.   No expenditures for goods, works or services required for the
rehabilitation of a Selected Irrigation Project shall be eligible
for financing out the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the feasibility study for such Selected Irrigation Project
has been approved by PCU;
     (b)  such expenditures are covered by the terms of an agreement
for a Sub-Subloan made in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule and the Irrigation Project Credit Manual; and
     (c)  the consultants required to supervise the execution of the
rehabilitation works have been approved by the PCU.
6.   COFIDE shall open a separate account for the receipt of all
repayments of principal of the Subloans.
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
7.   Subloans shall be denominated in dollars.
8.   The interest rate on Subloans shall be an adjustable rate
determined by COFIDE's board at prevailing market rates, provided,
however, that such rate shall not: (a) be less, at any time, than
the sum of the interest rate and other charges on the Loan plus a
reasonable fee as determined in the Irrigation Project Credit
Manual; and (b) not exceed, at any time, the average cost of funds
of the CFI as calculated in accordance with a methodology satis-
factory to the Bank.
Page  6
9.   The term of each Subloan shall be established in accordance
with the requirements of the Selected Irrigation Project to which
the proceeds of the Subloan will be applied but shall, in any
event, not exceed a maximum of 15 years, including a maximum of 4
years of grace.  Subloans shall finance not more than ninety five
percent of the cost of the respective selected Irrigation Projects
to be financed under the respective Subloan.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Subloans
10.  Sub-Subloans shall be denominated in dollars.
11.  Sub-Subloans shall be made at rates of interest determined by
the CFIs at prevailing market rates.
12.  The term of each Sub-Subloan shall be determined by the CFIs
in accordance with the requirements of the Selected Irrigation
Projects but shall, in any event, not exceed 15 years, including
a maximum grace period of 4 years.
13.  Commercial risk on the Sub-Subloans shall be borne exclusively
by the CFIs.
14.  CFIs shall not enter into agreements for Sub-Subloans with WUOs
unless all of the following conditions are met:
     (a)  the feasibility study for the rehabilitation works to be
financed by a Sub-Subloan shows a rate of return of not less than
12 percent and has been approved by the Borrower through the PCU;
     (b)  the WUO is legally established in accordance with the
applicable laws of the Borrower, has enforceable operating
regulations and effective administrative capacity;
     (c)  the WUO keeps an up-to-date list of all its members;
     (d)  all members of the WUO have registered their water rights
in accordance with the applicable laws of the Borrower; and
     (e)  the WUO has approved the application for a Sub-Subloan
in accordance with the Irrigation Project Credit Manual.
