Page  1
June 19, 1998
Ing. Jorge Francisco Baca 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima 1, Peru
Mr. Marco Castillo Torres 
Gerente General  
COFIDE 
Augusto Tamayo No. 160 
San Isidro 
Lima, Perú
PERU:
Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan No. 4076-PE) 
Amendment to Loan Agreement and Termination of Project Agreement
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated November 7, 1996, for the 
above-referenced Project (the Loan Agreement) between the Republic of Peru (the 
Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Project Agreement of same date between the Bank and Corporación Financiera de 
Desarrollo (COFIDE).  Whenever used in this letter, all terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement have the meaning therein set forth.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the request of the Ministry of 
Economy and Finance dated April 22, 1998, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement and terminate the Project Agreement as follows:
A.
LOAN AGREEMENT
1.
Whereas (C) is deleted and the word “and” is inserted at the end of Whereas (B).
2.
Section 1.02: 
(a)
 Paragraphs  (a), (b), (f), (g), (j), (l), (m), (n) and (o) are deleted 
and paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (h), (i), (k), (o) and (p) are relettered as paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h).
(b)
New paragraph (b) is amended to read as follow:
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth 
the rules, procedures and criteria for the implementation of Part A of the Project and 
to be approved by the Borrower;”
(c)
New paragraph (f) is amended to read as follows: 
“(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;”
(d)
New paragraph (g) is amended by inserting “and” after the semicolon.
(e)
New paragraph (h) is amended by deleting the word "Credit”.
3.
Section 2.02:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
Page  2
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.”
(b)
Paragraph (b) is deleted.
(c)
Paragraph (c) is relettered as (b) and amended to read as follows: 
“The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.”
4.
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, through the PCU, and Part E of the 
Project through INADE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, irrigation, engineering, environmental, ecological and 
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project through the PCU and carry out Part E of 
the Project through INADE in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.”
5.
Section 3.03 (a) is amended by deleting the phrase “Parts B, C, D and E”.
6.
Section 3.04 is deleted in its entirety.
7.
Sections 3.05 and 3.06 are renumbered as Sections 3.04 and 3.05.
8.
The new Section 3.05 (c) is amended by deleting “COFIDE,” and by substituting 
“1998”for “1999”.
9.
Section 4.01:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is amended by deleting “Parts A, B, C, D and E”.
(b)
Paragraphs (b) (i) and (c) (ii) are amended by deleting “- COFIDE and 
Special Account-PCU”. 
10.
Section 4.02 is amended by deleting “and COFIDE”.
11. 
Section 5.01 is amended by deleting paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) and 
relettering paragraphs (e) and (f) as paragraphs (a) and (b).
12.
Section 5.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that  the event specified in 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of such Section.
13.
The table in Schedule 1 is replaced in its entirety by the attachment hereto.
14.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended by deleting “(d) for Subloans under 
Category (1)” and relettering (e), (f) and (g) as (d), (e) and (f).
15.
Schedule 4: 
(a)
Part C of Section I is amended in its entirety to read as follows: 
Page  3
“Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
(i)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract; and
(ii)
works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part C.1 (a) above, shall be 
carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Commercial Practices 
Goods under Part C of the Project may be procured in accordance with 
established commercial practices; provided, however, that such practices include 
packaging of orders to the maximum extent practicable and that they are based on 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.”
(b)
Part D.2 (a) of Section I is amended to read as follows:
“(a) 
With respect to each contract for works and the first contract for goods 
under the Project procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 above and 
with respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 
or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.”
16.
Schedule 5:
(a)
Paragraph 1 is amended to read as follows: 
“1.
Part A of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. The Operational Manual shall not be amended, and no provision of 
it shall be waived by the Borrower, without the prior approval of the Bank.”
(b)
Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows: 
“2.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for the 
rehabilitation of a Selected Irrigation Project shall be eligible for financing out 
the proceeds of the Loan unless: 
(a)
such expenditures are covered by the terms of an agreement with the 
respective WUO and which agreement: (i) provides for the commitment of such WUO to 
cover the operation and maintenance costs of the respective irrigation system and to 
Page  4
finance and carry out the rehabilitation of the remaining canal systems (tertiary and 
quaternary) not part of the Selected Irrigation Project/s; and (ii) is made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Irrigation Manual.
(b)
the feasibility study for the respective rehabilitation works shows a 
rate of return of not less than 12 percent;
(c)
the respective WUO is legally established in accordance with the 
applicable laws of the Borrower, has enforceable operating regulations and effective 
administrative capacity;
(d)
the respective WUO keeps an up-to-date list of all its members; and
(e)
the respective WUO has adhered to the Operational Manual.”
(c)
Paragraph 3 is amended by substituting “three” for “two” in the sixth line. 
17.
Schedule 6 is hereby deleted.
18.
Schedule 7 is renumbered as Schedule 6 and amended as follows: 
(a)
The title shall read as “Special Account” and all phrases “Special 
Account -PCU” are replaced by “Special Account”.
(b)
Paragraph 1 (a) is amended by substituting “(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and 
(7)” for “(1) through (7).
(c)
Paragraph 1 (b) is amended by deleting “Parts B, C, D and E”.
(d)
Paragraph 1 (c) is amended by substituting “$2,500,000” and “$ 1,500,000” 
for “$ 8,500,00”and “$ 3,000,000”respectively and by deleting “Parts B, C, D and E”. 
B.
PROJECT AGREEMENT
19.
All of the provisions of the Project Agreement are hereby terminated 
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  The provisions of this letter 
of amendment will be effective upon (e) receipt by the Bank of one such fully signed 
original; and (b) receipt by the Bank of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing 
that the Borrower shall have approved the Operational Manual
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Ernesto May 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru 
Latin America and Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
/s/ Jorge Francisco Baca
    Authorized Representative
Date:  October 6, 1998
Page  5
COFIDE
/s/ Marco Castillo Torres
    Authorized Representative
Date: October 6, 1998
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
(1)
Civil Works
46,300,000
85%
under Part A
of the Project
(2)
Goods
 4,170,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
13,030,000
100%
services
(4)
Agricultural
 2,730,000
40%
extension
services under
Part C of the
Project
(5)
Matching
 7,300,000
50%
Grants under
Part C of the
Project
(6)
Operating
 2,040,000
75% up to $350,000
expenses under
equivalent; 50%
Part D of the 
thereafter up to
Project
an aggregate of
$700,000 equiva-
lent; and 25%
thereafter
(7)
Civil works 
 2,400,000
100% of foreign
under Part E 
expenditures and
of the Project
75% of local 
expenditures
(8)
Unallocated
 7,030,000
 _________
TOTAL
85,000,000
