Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Irrigation Subsector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated June 28, 1993
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant 
funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions 
of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii) Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
    (iii) Section 3.01;
     (iv) Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi) Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
Page  3
     (ix) Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
    (vii)Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be 
financed out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in 
another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of 
the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of 
Page  4
such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; 
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan;
(b)
"Users' Associations" means the Recipient's Juntas
de
Usuarios
; and
(c)
"UNDP" means United Nations Development Programme.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant 
in an amount of fifty-six million five hundred thousand yen (¥56,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 30, 1994, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient, through its Ministry of Agriculture, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and 
Page  5
to be financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Administrator may 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall enter into an agreement ("the Management 
Agreement") with UNDP for the administration of consultants’ contracts and the 
workshop and for the procurement of goods. The Recipient shall provide a draft 
of the Management Agreement to the Administrator for its review and approval.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Management 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties hereto and upon the provision of evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator that the Management Agreement has been executed by the parties 
thereto and declared effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Recipient:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima,
Peru
Fax:
               282194
With copy to:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Jirón Junín 319
Lima
Perú
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickman
   /s/ Ricardo Luna
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
     % of
(Expressed
 Expenditures
Category
     in Yen)    
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’      47,125,000
100%
services and
administrative
support services
Page  9
(2)
Goods(including
1,875,000
100% of foreign
office equipment
expenditures and
and vehicles)
82% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Workshop
7,500,000
100%
     __________
Total
     56,500,000
     ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of ¥8,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1993.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Preparation of the Irrigation Subsector Project through the provision of 
the technical assistance with respect to:
Part A
:
Institutional Development and Strengthening of Users' 
Associations
1.
Identification of operational constraints at the Users' Associations level, 
including training requirements in the operational, managerial and 
administrative areas;
2.
Planning of a technical assistance program to the Users Associations at a 
Page  10
national level, to be implemented as part of the Project; and
3.
Technical assistance to the associations selected to participate in the first 
year of project implementation.
Part B
:
Technological Innovation
1.
Design of a training program for producers and private technicians in 
water management at farm level;
2.
Evaluation of the traditional irrigation practices and comparison of them 
with the new technologies being applied and tested in Peru; and
3.
Design of a system of incentives for promotion of the most appropriate 
irrigation methods in terms of economic efficiency and environmental protection.
Part C
:
Assessment of Environmental Impact of Irrigation Projects in the 
Coastal Region
(a)
Assessment of water logging and salinization of soils, pollution of 
lands, surface and groundwater from agricultural biocides and fertilizers, 
dilution of municipal and industrial wastes, and deterioration of the water 
quality and potential of transmitting communicable diseases; and
(b)
Design of a plan to reduce the negative social and environmental 
impact of irrigation projects.
Part D
:
Privatization Workshop
Organization of a workshop to discuss issues related to the privatization 
of irrigation, including legal and administrative aspects of land and water right 
markets, and mechanisms of transfer of public irrigation infrastructure and 
management to irrigation districts or private developers.
Part E
:Legal Framework
Preparation of the legal and regulatory framework for water resources 
management.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  11
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Local competitive bidding:
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator and from suppliers eligible under the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
Shopping:
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$2,500 dollars per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000 dollars, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guide-lines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Administrator.
Part B
:Review of the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000 dollars or more, the procedures set forth in para-graphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Administrator has authorized withdrawals on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II
. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
Page  12
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfac-tory to the Administrator. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
