Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4076-PE
                             Loan Agreement
                      (Irrigation Subsector Project)
                                between
                            REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated November 7, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4076-PE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equi-
valent to $60,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
     (C)  Part A of the Project will be carried out by Corporacin
Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to COFIDE a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and COFIDE;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "COFIDE" means the Borrower's Financial Development Bank
(Corporacin Financiera de Desarrollo), established pursuant to the
Borrower's Decreto Ley No.18807 and published in El Peruano of
March 19, 1971, as amended from time to time;
     (b)  "Commercial Financial Institutions" ("CFI") means first-
tier financial institutions with which COFIDE has entered into a
Subsidiary Participation Agreement in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "INADE" means the Borrower's National Institute for
Development (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo), established pursuant
to Decreto Legislativo No. 261, dated June 24, 1983 and published in
El Peruano of June 28, 1983, as amended from time to time;
     (d)  "Irrigation Project Credit Manual" means the credit manual
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established
by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (a)
of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and COFIDE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Rehabilitation Fund" means the fund to be established by
COFIDE in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Selected Dams" means the dams called "Poechos", "San
Lorenzo", "Tinajones" and "El Fraile", and all their associated
structures and reservoirs;
     (i)  "Selected Irrigation Project" means an irrigation project
approved by the PCU for financing under Part A of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
     (j)  "Special Account - COFIDE" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "Special Account - PCU" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
COFIDE out of the Rehabilitation Fund to a CFI under a Subsidiary
Participation Agreement for further on-lending to a WUO for a
Selected Irrigation Project;
     (m)  "Sub-Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a CFI to a WUO for a Selected Irrigation Project;
     (n)  "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and COFIDE pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the Irrigation Project Credit Manual annexed
to said agreement;
Page  3
     (o)  "Subsidiary Participation Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between COFIDE and each of the CFIs pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Participation Agreement; and
     (p)  "WUO" means a water user organization and, depending on
the context, can be either an Irrigators' Commission (Comisin de
Regantes) or a Users' Board (Junta de Usuarios), or both or
Irrigators' Commission and a Users' Board or any other eligible
water organization acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the
Irrigation Project Credit Manual.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to eighty five million dollars ($85,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be paid) by COFIDE on account of withdrawals made by a CFI under
a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for a Selected Irrigation Project in respect of which a CFI
has made payment to a WUO under a Sub-Subloan; and (ii) expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts B,
C, D and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank or financial entity, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account - COFIDE shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts B, C, D and E
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account - PCU shall be made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but exclud-
               ing, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
               thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
               from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
               excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
Page  4
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars for value the first day of such
               Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment
               Date occurring on or next preceding the first day
               of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London inter-
               bank offered rates, or other reference rates, for
               six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's out-
               standing borrowings or portions thereof allocated
               by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
               portions thereof made by it that include the Loan;
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
               as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not
less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement:
          (i)  shall supervise COFIDE's execution of Part A of the
               Project and carry out Parts B, C and D of the
               Project through the PCU and Part E of the Project
               through INADE with due diligence and efficiency
               and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
               irrigation, engineering, environmental, ecological
               and financial practices and shall provide, promptly
               as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
               resources required for such Parts of the Project;
               and
         (ii)  shall cause COFIDE to perform all its obligations set
               forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause
               to be taken all action, including the provision of
Page  5
               funds, facilities, services and other resources,
               necessary or appropriate to enable COFIDE to perform
               such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
               be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
               with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project
through the PCU and carry out Part E of the Project through INADE in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall transfer a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan to COFIDE under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and COFIDE, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the
establishment by COFIDE of the Rehabilitation Fund and which shall
also include as an annex a complete credit manual for the execution
of Part A of the Project.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and, without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through
the PCU, shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, for the future
operation of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by COFIDE pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish within the
Ministry of Agriculture, and thereafter maintain during the period
of Project execution, the PCU with such staffing, functions and
organization as shall be acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, through the PCU, establish within the
PCU and thereafter maintain during the period of execution of the
Project, a comprehensive management information and monitoring
system on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article
IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the PCU:
     (a)  prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than December 31
of each year of Project execution, for its review and approval, an
annual operating plan for all Parts of the Project of such scope and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
Page  6
     (b)  prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than September 30
and March 31 of each year of Project execution, progress reports on
the execution of the Project for, respectively, the first and second
semesters of the year, such progress reports to be of such scope and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and to be prepared on
the basis of the monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank;
     (c)  organize, together with COFIDE, OECF and the Bank, an
evaluation of the execution of Part A of the Project by June 30,
1998 or promptly after an aggregate of $10,000,000 equivalent has
been withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of Category (1) of
the Table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, whichever is earlier; and
     (d)  promptly take or cause to be taken all such action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient
execution of the Project or the attainment of its objectives if,
as a result of any of the progress reports referred to in para-
graph (b) above, or the evaluation referred to in paragraph (c)
above, progress in the execution of the Project or in the achieve-
ment of its objectives is not satisfactory to the Bank.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account - COFIDE and Special Account -PCU for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
               dent auditors acceptable to the Bank employed under
               terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested, including a separate
               management report on the overall institutional
               performance and the efficiency of the flow of funds
               under the Project; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
               the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account - COFIDE or
               Special Account - PCU was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
Page  7
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02 The Borrower shall, through the PCU, submit to the
Bank for its review and approval the plan of accounts and accounting
procedures to be used by the PCU and COFIDE during the execution of
the Project.
                                ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  COFIDE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that COFIDE will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower's Decree-Law (Decreto Ley) No.18807 referred
to in Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of COFIDE to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of COFIDE or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The OECF Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by not later than six months after the Effective Date,
or such later date as the Bank may agree, provided that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                    proceeds of the OECF Loan shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                    or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    OECF Loan Agreement; or
               (B)  such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
               of the Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under the OECF Loan Agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available
Page  8
                    to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                    conditions consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of such Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has allocated adequate budget funds, in the
opinion of the Bank, to its Ministry of Agriculture for the
implementation of the Project during 1996;
     (b)  the Borrower, through its Ministry of Economy and Finance,
has entered into the Subsidiary Agreement with COFIDE in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (c)  the Borrower has fully staffed the PCU with staff with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank;
     (d)  the Borrower, through the PCU, has established a monitoring
system satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement and has made it operational; and
     (e)  the PCU and COFIDE have adopted the plan of accounts and
accounting procedures approved by the Bank in accordance with Section
4.02 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by COFIDE, and is legally binding upon COFIDE in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date of February 5, 1997 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Jirn Junn 319
          Lima 1
Page  9
          Peru
     For the Bank:
          Director, Country Department III
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF PERU
                    By /s/ Luis Quesada Incheustegui
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Subloans                 46,300,000           95% of amounts
                                                   disbursed by
                                                   COFIDE under
                                                   Subloans
(2)  Goods                     4,170,000           100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures and
                                                   85% of local
                                                   expenditures
(3)  Consultants'             13,030,000           100%
     services
(4)  Agricultural              2,730,000           40%
     extension
Page  10
     services under
     Part C of the
     Project
(5)  Matching                  7,300,000           50%
     Grants under
     Part C of the
     Project
(6)  Operating                 1,020,000           75% up to $350,000
     expenses under                                equivalent; 50%
     Part D of the                                 thereafter up to
     Project                                       an aggregate of
                                                   $700,000 equiva-
                                                   lent; and 25%
                                                   thereafter
(7)  Civil works               2,400,000           100% of foreign
     under Part E                                  expenditures and
     of the Project                                75% of local
                                                   expenditures
(8)  Unallocated               8,050,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    85,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Operating expenses" means administrative expenses
(including salaries and the cost of operating the management infor-
mation and monitoring system referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this
Agreement) of the PCU; and
     (d)  the term "Matching Grants" means grants (bonificaciones)
made by the PCU to eligible beneficiaries for the partial financing
of eligible expenditures incurred in connection with eligible
projects, all as provided in the manual referred to in paragraph 14
of Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (3), in respect
of Part D of the Project, and (6) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 19, 1996; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories
(2), (3), (4) and (5) in respect of Part C of the Project until
the Borrower, through the PCU, has provided to the Bank the
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank referred to in
paragraph 14 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent;
(b) for civil works under contracts not exceeding $3,000,000
equivalent; (c) for services of consultant firms not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent and of individual consultants not exceeding
Page  11
$50,000; (d) for Subloans under Category (1); (e) for Operating
Expenses under Category (6); (f) for Matching Grants under
Category (5); and (g) agricultural extension services under
Category (4), all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to develop the capacity for
decentralized management of irrigation systems by WUOs, to reduce
the role of the public sector in irrigation, and to ensure cost
recovery of capital investment and operation and maintenance of
irrigation systems.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Rehabilitation
     Financing of the rehabilitation and/or improvements of Selected
Irrigation Projects.
Part B:   Strengthening of WUOs
     Institutional development and strengthening of WUOs and training
of their management and technical staff in administration, finance
and operation and maintenance of irrigation systems.
Part C:   Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement
     Execution of a national program for the promotion of the adoption
of technological innovations in irrigation through:
1.   Execution of a training program for extension workers who will
be responsible for the promotion of more efficient irrigation
techniques and methods.
2.   Execution of an investment matching grant program for the
adoption of new irrigation technology.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
     Strengthening of the PCU to enable it to carry out its coordi-
nation and monitoring functions for the Project.
Part E:   Dam Safety Emergency Program
     Development and execution of an emergency rehabilitation program
for the Selected Dams, including the testing and rehabilitation of
control equipment, valves, gates, generators, low-level drains and
other outlet works, and the completion of earth stabilization works
at El Fraile dam.
                                * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
                                            (Expressed in
     Date Payment Due                         dollars)*
     March 15, 2001                         2,235,000.000
     September 15, 2001                     2,300,000.000
     March 15, 2002                         2,365,000.000
     September 15, 2002                     2,435,000.000
Page  12
     March 15, 2003                         2,505,000.000
     September 15, 2003                     2,580,000.000
     March 15, 2004                         2,655,000.000
     September 15, 2004                     2,730,000.000
     March 15, 2005                         2,810,000.000
     September 15, 2005                     2,890,000.000
     March 15, 2006                         2,975,000.000
     September 15, 2006                     3,060,000.000
     March 15, 2007                         3,150,000.000
     September 15, 2007                     3,240,000.000
     March 15, 2008                         3,335,000.000
     September 15, 2008                     3,430,000.000
     March 15, 2009                         3,530,000.000
     September 15, 2009                     3,635,000.000
     March 15, 2010                         3,740,000.000
     September 15, 2010                     3,850,000.000
     March 15, 2011                         3,960,000.000
     September 15, 2011                     4,075,000.000
     March 15, 2012                         4,190,000.000
     September 15, 2012                     4,315,000.000
     March 15, 2013                         4,440,000.000
     September 15, 2013                     4,570,000.000
                                            _____________
TOTAL:                                     85,000,000.000
___________________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Page  13
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works procured by WUOs under Part A of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract and goods
procured by WUOs under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract may be procured in
accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank.
2.   Works procured under Part E of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract and goods procured
under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4
of the Guidelines.
3.   Goods under Parts B, C, D an E of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Goods under Part C of the Project may be procured in accordance
with established commercial practices; provided, however, that such
practices include packaging of orders to the maximum extent
practicable and that they are based on comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.   In the procurement of goods and works, in accordance with the
procedures referred to in Part C.2 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, or shall cause to, use standard bidding documents acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     (a)  With respect to each first-tier bank's first contract for
works and first contract for goods for Part A of the Project
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C, paragraph 1
above and with respect to each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for Parts B,
C, D and E of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2,
3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Page  14
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract docu-
ments have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                         Implementation Program
Parts A and B of the Project
1.   Part A of the Project will be carried out by COFIDE in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement with the assistance and
under the supervision of the Borrower, through its Ministry of Economy
and Finance in coordination with the PCU, as set forth below.
2.   The Borrower, through the PCU, shall approve the Selected
Irrigation Projects on the basis of: (a) feasibility studies and;
(b) evidence that the WUOs in question are willing and able to repay
the Sub-Subloans. The PCU shall also approve all firms to be employed
by WUOs for the supervision of the rehabilitation of Selected
Irrigation Projects.
3.   In order to ensure that WUOs are maintaining the Selected
Irrigation Projects in an adequate and sustainable manner and are
receiving an appropriate water charge for the recovery of their
operations and maintenance cost, the Borrower, through the PCU,
shall employ an independent technical auditor to monitor the status
of operation and maintenance of the Selected Irrigation Projects on
an on-going basis.  Said auditor will be charged with reviewing the
irrigation infrastructure of the Selected Irrigation Projects every
three years and to recommend corrective actions if necessary.  The
Borrower, through the PCU, shall ensure that WUOs comply with such
recommendations within one year of the date of the technical
auditor's report.
4.   Part B of the Project will be carried out by consultants under
the supervision of the PCU.
Part C of the Project:
Part C.1
5.   The training to be provided to the extension workers shall
include extensive coverage of all know-how necessary for transferring
irrigation and drainage knowledge to irrigation system users. It
shall include training on environmental aspects, particularly with
respect to the use of agrochemicals and mitigation of their
environmental impact. 
6.   Extension workers will be hired directly by WUOs or other
farmers' organizations selected between the PCU and the Bank. As a
Page  15
condition of their employment and training, extension workers will
be required to sign a commitment to work with the hiring WUO or
farmer organization for a minimum of five years, or to repay the
salary they received during their training.
7.   In addition to extension work in irrigation and drainage,
extension workers will be responsible for disseminating the matching
grant program to be carried out under Part C.2 of the Project to all
farmers able to participate in the program and for assisting poorer
farmers in participating in the program.
8.   In areas where irrigation systems were rehabilitated under Part
A of the Project, such irrigation systems will be used by the
extension workers to promote the adoption of modern irrigation
technology and to encourage farmers to use more efficient irrigation
systems and techniques.
9.   The Borrower, through the PCU, shall ensure that all consultants
employed by WUOs under Part C.1 of the Project shall be employed
under standard terms and conditions and standard terms of reference
approved by the Bank.
Part C.2
10.  A matching grant program for the adoption of new irrigation
technology will be carried out by the Borrower, through the PCU for
the benefit of all farmers, WUOs and other farmer organizations
interested in modernizing their practices in order to achieve more
efficient use of water and soil resources. To ensure that all
possible beneficiaries are provided equal opportunity of access to
the subsidies program, available program funds will be allocated
to each of the main irrigated areas on the Pacific coast on the
basis of hectarage under irrigation. In addition, in order to
promote poverty alleviation, the program will provide no more
than 80% subsidy to farmers with less than 15 hectares and a
subsidy of no more than 50% to farmers with more than 15 hectares.
11.  Only irrigation projects on land with water already supplied
to the farm site will be eligible to receive matching grants under
the program.
12.  The matching grant will be paid on the cost of studies to
establish improved irrigation methods and on the cost of equipment
needed to apply irrigation water and agricultural chemicals
(including the necessary pumping equipment in cases where
pressurization is needed) and the PCU shall maintain proof of
payment of all studies and equipment on account of which it has
made matching grants.
13.  Irrigation projects will not be eligible for the matching grant
program if:
     (a)  investment costs per hectare exceed the equivalent of
$5,000; and
     (b)  investment costs exceed $150,000 equivalent for projects
financed by individual farmers or $300,000 equivalent for projects
financed by WUOs or other farmer organizations.
14.  Matching grants will be awarded for eligible projects on the
basis of a competitive selection process organized by the PCU. The
rules for this selection process as well as all other procedures
for the execution of the matching grant program will be set forth
in an operational manual acceptable to the Bank.
Part E of the Project
15.  Part E of the Project will be supervised by a dam safety
supervision committee established within INADE on the basis of
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Day-to-day management
of the dam safety emergency program will be assured by a unit to
be established within INADE with staffing, functions and
Page  16
organization acceptable to the Bank.
16.  The Borrower, through INADE, shall at all times operate and
maintain the Selected Dams, and shall make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering,
irrigation, environmental, ecological and financial practices.
17.  Without limitation on the generality of paragraph 16 above,
the Borrower, through INADE, shall under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, cause the Selected Dams, after their rehabilitation
under Part E of the Project, to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety.
To this end, the Borrower, through INADE, shall propose to the
Bank appropriate arrangements for the Bank's review no later than
one year before the expected completion date of the rehabilitation
of each of such structures.
                              SCHEDULE 6
                      Special Account - COFIDE
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account - COFIDE pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account - COFIDE has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account - COFIDE shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account - COFIDE such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account - COFIDE,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account - COFIDE at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
               4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
Page  17
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account -
               COFIDE such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account - COFIDE for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account - COFIDE, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account - COFIDE:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account - COFIDE;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part A of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account - COFIDE as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account - COFIDE: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account - COFIDE (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account - COFIDE
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  18
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account - COFIDE will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account - COFIDE.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                           Special Account - PCU
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account - PCU pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account - PCU has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account - PCU shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account - PCU such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account - PCU, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account - PCU at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Page  19
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account - PCU such amount as the
               Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account - PCU for
               eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account -
PCU, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account - PCU:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account - PCU;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account - PCU as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account - PCU: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account - PCU (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account - PCU shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account - PCU will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
Page  20
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account - PCU.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
