Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20887- BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR2.8 MILLION (US$3.55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
November 8, 2000
Human Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 6, 2000)
Unit of currency: Konvertible Marka (KM), equivalent to 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
KM1=US$0.4426
US$1=KM2.25925
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH             Bosnia and Herzegovina
BFP            Budget Framework Paper
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CSW            Centers for Social Work
EDS            Economic Development Strategy
EU             European Union
Els            Employment Institutes
ETF            Employment and Training Foundation
FBH            Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FIS            Federation Statistical Institute
FMS            Financial Management System
FRY            Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IC             International Community
IDA            International Development Association
ILO            International Labor Organization
IMF            International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KM             Konvertible Marka
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
LFS            Labor Force Survey
LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
MFTER          Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MLSPRDP        Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and
Displaced Persons
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NGO            Non-Government Organization
OHR            Office of the High Representative
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader: Philip O'Keefe



PELRP          Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
PFs            Pension Funds
PFSAC          Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PIUs           Project Implementation Units
PMR            Project Management Report
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS             Republika Srpska
RSIS           Republika Srpska Statistical Institute
SAA            Stabilization and Association Agreement
SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
SDRs           Special Drawing Rights
SFRY           Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SOSAC          Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SOTAC          Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
SP             Social Protection
SPES           Social Protection Expenditure Strategy
SPTF           Social Protection Task Force
SSN            Social Safety Net
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
USAID          United States Agency for International Development






Bosnia-Herzegovina
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective ...........................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ...........................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................6
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................9
1. Project components ...........................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................                                11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................................... 11
D Project Rationale ................................................................                                                  14
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................                     ........................ 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................                       .................... 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................ 15
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                          16
1. Economic ................................................................                                               16
2. Financial ................................................................                                              16
3. Technical ................................................................                                              16
4. Institutional ................................................................ 17
5. Environmental Assessment ................................................................                               18
6. Social ...                                                                                                              19
7. Safeguard Policies ...................... 20
F Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                20
1. Sustainability ...................... 20
2. Critical Risks ...................... 21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................                                                                  21



G Main Loan Conditions ........................                                  21
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................. 21
2. Other ..................                                               21
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                          22
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                         22
Annexes
Annex 1       Project Design Summary
Annex 2       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4       Terms of Reference for Selected Assignments
Annex 5      Financial Summary
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6B      Review of Financial Management Arrangements
Annex 7      Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8      Documents in Project File
Annex 9       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10     Country at a Glance
Annex 11      Letter of Development Policy for Proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Map          IBRD 28578R



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECCO4
Date: November 8, 2000                                    Team Leader: Philip O'Keefe, ECSHD
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4           Sector Manager: Michal Rutkowski, ECSHD
Project ID: P070650                                       Sector: SS - Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit (SIL)      Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    []  Yes  [x]  No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit         [] Grant         [] Guarantee        [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 3.55 million. equivalent in SDRs
Proposed terms:      [] To be defined         [x] Multicurrency         [] Single currency
[] Standard Variable    [] Fixed                 [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):              10
Years to maturity:                35
Commitment fee:
Service charge:                   0.75 %
Government                                                       0.33                0.00               0.33
IDA                                                              0.45                3.10               3.55
Total:                                                           0.78                3.1                3.88
Borrower: State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ministry of Foreign and Economic Relations (on-lent to Entity Ministries of Finance)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons (FBH); Ministry of Labor and Veterans'
Affairs (RS).
Estimated disburseen:s Bank FYPPneocu
Annual        0.75           1.7           1.43
Cumulative        0.75          2.45          3.88
Project implementation period: 2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: February 2001                Expected closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons (Fl3H); Ministry of Labor and Veterans'
Affairs, and Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (RS).
Contact person: Marko Pejcinovic, Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project PIU Director, and Amrudin Nurak,
Deputy Director (FBH); Srecko Bogunovic, Employment and Training Foundation Director (RS).
Address: Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment PIU, Tesanjska 7, Sarajevo, FBH; ETF, Banja Luka Banka
building, Banja Luka, RS.
Tel: 387 33 279180 (FBH); 051-218- Fax: 387 33 279810 (FBH); 051-  E-mail: MeUikadj(iBih.Net.Ba; bsrecko@iName.com
140 (RS)                          217-947 (RS)                         (RS)
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objectives of the proposed Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) are the
provision of a sustainable system of social protection that targets spending more effectively on the poorest
and is based on reliable social statistics, and the creation of an improved labor relations framework in
order to stimulate employment growth. The proposed project would be a companion credit to a proposed
Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC - scheduled for Board presentation in early calendar 2001). It
would also act as a bridge between the proposed first SOSAC, and a second SOSAC programmed for the
CAS period, and in this way promote continuity in the policy dialogue in social protection. The project
objectives would be achieved through:
*  support to development of institutional and budgetary mechanisms for development and prioritization
of social policy in BH;
*  improving the policy framework for generation of productive employment opportunities;
*  improving the impact and efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing programs on the
needs of the poorest;
*  improving public information and consultation about the objectives and elements of social policy
reforms; and
*  strengthening the social statistics base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated on a well-
informed basis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators would be: (i) production of SP Expenditure Strategy for each budget year,
which would provide policy and expenditure framework; (ii) passage of amendments to key labor
legislation in each Entity which promotes better private sector enabling environment; (iii) elaboration and
adoption by Governments of SP Strategies for period 2001-2004; (iv) adoption of reforns to Entity SP
laws to reflect greater resource pooling and equalization in social assistance; (v) development of effective
public information/consultation programs on social policy reforms, and carrying out public information
campaigns; (vi) staff trained in different elements of project; and (vii) Centers for Social Work which are
operating standard client systems by end of project period.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20592 BIH              Date of latest CAS discussion: May 18, 2000
The new CAS for BH has four broad development priorities which form the basis of the reform agenda
the government will need to tackle over the next several years: (i) strengthening governance; (ii) fostering
private sector led growth; (iii) building social sustainability; and (iv) completing reconstruction. These
are reflected in the first Economic Development Strategy (EDS) which is currently under preparation by
BH authorities. The overarching objective of the CAS is poverty reduction.
The proposed credit focuses directly on three of these specific objectives. Firstly, it should help to
strengthen governance and institutional capacity in BH to design and implement social protection
programs which are well targeted, fiscally responsible, and administratively manageable. Secondly, the
credit will include considerable support for institutional and policy measures to improve the labor
relations framework in BH, in order that the private sector enabling environment becomes more
supportive. Thirdly, the investments for improving the social safety net and social statistics should ensure
that social policy is developed and monitored on a more informed basis than presently, which should
contribute significantly to more credible and socially sustainable policies. Finally, the proposed SOTAC
is key to refining public policies on poverty alleviation.



Page 3
The CAS also defines monitorable indicators for achieving the above objectives. The proposed credit
would support achievement of these goals. Specifically, it would support:
*  further reform of the labor relations framework in both Entities;
*  conducting representative LSMS and labor force surveys. Data and qualitative information will also
target the specific status and needs of women, children/youth and the elderly, as well as the displaced,
as particular vulnerable groups; and
*  development of Social Protection Strategies for each Entity. It would also support implementation of
social protection strategies through reforms to the overall structure of cash transfer programs,
improved financing mechanisms for social assistance, and overhauling other transfer programs such
as veterans' benefits, disability programs and unemployment insurance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Social protection policy and institutionalframeworks:
Across the social sectors, policy formulation is under-developed and uncoordinated, a situation
exacerbated by the devolution of most responsibilities in social assistance, health and education. This
results in fragmented approaches to basic planning and management in social protection, and a virtual
absence of well-considered prioritization. There is an absence of medium-term policy and vision about
the goals and expectations of social policy, both within and across sectors. In addition, there is no
strategy for communicating the nature and objectives of reforms to the general public, which undermines
public confidence in policy makers, and can contribute to backlash against reforms. The situation is
reflected in the absence of a medium term fiscal expenditure framework for social protection, which could
act as a tool to promote the prioritization of short- and long-term measures, and of their consideration
within the context of the available resource envelope.
In the Federation, the ministry directly responsible for social assistance is also responsible for labor,
refugees and displaced persons. There is a separate ministry responsible for veteran's issues, and
pensions policy is developed (in an ad hoc manner) and implemented mainly under the leadership of
extrabudgetary pension funds. In most cases, there is considerable duplication of functions, either
formally through separate institutions for Bosniak and Croat areas, or informally through limited
communication between different tiers of management. The complex institutional arrangements are
overlaid with Dayton-mandated delineation of roles and responsibilities between the Federation, cantons
and municipalities. In most cases, the result in the social protection and social services fields is that there
is a "weak center" which is responsible for overall policy development, but has a limited revenue base and
is not responsible for policy implementation. In Republika Srpska, the social welfare ministry is also
responsible for health, with veteran's issues connected with the Ministry of Labor, and refugees and
displaced persons being the responsibility of a separate commission. Those in need of social assistance
may in some way be connected with all of these ministries. The issue of roles and responsibilities
between the center and the municipalities is made somewhat less complex by the absence of cantons and
the more diversified revenue base of the entity, but the root issue of separation of policy development and
implementation is also relevant.
Cash transfer programs:
Social assistance has been in a state of crisis in BH in recent years, both from the demands of the post-
conflict situation, and a severe case of transition issues facing may ECA countries. In terms of the legal
framework, however, there has not been the adjustment in entitlements and focus on core objectives that
one would have expected given the fiscal constraints and social needs. This has led to a situation in many
parts of BH where the credibility of the system has been undermined, due to inability to deliver on policy
commitments.



Page 4
As an inheritance of the former Yugoslav social protection system, BH has a comprehensive network of
Centers for Social Work (CSW) at the municipal level. These institutions are well placed to respond to
the specific needs of a community and its population. The Centers provide a broad network of direct and
referral services, as well as cash benefits. They are complemented by other organizations such as
government social institutions and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). While the Centers are a
critical element of the social protection system, they are often under-resourced, both in terms of funds
available for programs, and in equipment and other inputs to facilitate their work.
A key issue in BH is that the financing and implementation of social assistance is primarily the
responsibility of the local governments, while policy development is the responsibility of Entity
governments. In the Federation, each canton is responsible for determining the benefits which are to be
provided, and the share of responsibility between the canton and the municipal level. Although the
Federation-wide legal framework details the categories of beneficiaries, cantons must find the resources
to meet the entitlements. With limited resources, they are forced in practice to identify their own
priorities. In Republika Srpska, responsibility for Child Protection is with the Children's Fund, which
promotes a sharing of risk across the Entity. In addition, there is a social solidarity "fund", intended as a
form of equalization mechanism to protect the most vulnerable groups. However, it has been used to date
to finance pension and veterans' programs, rather than social assistance. Apart from these funds and
social institutions which are the responsibility of the Entity, social assistance remains the responsibility of
the municipality.
An important aspect of the current cash transfer agenda relates to disability benefits, which are funded
from the three pension funds. Given the poverty profile in neighboring countries - where the disabled
have high poverty rates - there is an argument to address disability issues as a priority in order to improve
the impact of the social safety net on the poorest. Currently there are a variety of different ways and
criteria for providing assistance to persons with disabilities. It is not known how many individuals are
legitimately disabled and, of those, how many receive some type of assistance. Further, it is not known
how many individuals who are disabled do not receive benefits. The system of disability pensions in each
of the funds appears to be based on an overly complicated disability determination process (i.e., 10
categories of disability), and on criteria that are purely medically based and not related to an "ability to
work" standard.
There are legitimately more categories of disabled in BH than in other countries. However, each of these
groups appears to be dealt with differently in each of the Entities and funds. The difference in treatment
of civilian victims of war is a case in point. These people are covered under veterans legislation in the RS
(though in practice few benefits are paid), but under general social protection legislation in the
Federation. In addition, in the Federation, civilian victims of war are treated differently to regular civilian
disabled, with no clear justification. Finally, there appears to be a significant possibility of duplicative
benefits going to one and the same person.
Labor market and employment programs:
BH presently has an unsustainably high level of unemployment. While it is difficult to get robust
estimates of unemployment, due to the large informal sector, registered unemployment in 1999 was
around 263,000 in the Federation (just under 40 percent of the labor force) and 150,000 in Republika
Srpska (just over 40 percent of the labor force). If workers on waiting lists are included in the estimates,
the broad official rate of unemployment increases to around 45 percent in the Federation, and just under
50 percent in the RS' These rates are amongst the highest of all transition economies, though should be
treated with considerable caution as not all the registered "unemployed" are actually so in practice, with
perhaps 150,000 in FBH and 90,000 in RS informally employed. It is clear that serious welfare
improvements for the bulk of the population are dependent on improving this situation by giving the
ISee UNDP, Human Development Report for BH, 1998; Bosnia Labor Market Study, Concept Paper (World Bank, 2000).



Page 5
highest priority to creation of productive employment opportunities.
While a significant share of the registered unemployed generate some income in the informal sector, the
limited survey data available suggest that the unemployed on average are living in difficult conditions,
with poverty rates between three and five times higher than for households where the head is employed 2
With the advent of privatization, it would be expected that unemployment rates would increase in the
short run, as enterprises are restructured.
Despite such high unemployment and potential for further lay-offs, the environment for creation of
productive employment opportunities in the formal sector is not encouraging. Core labor legislation in
both Entities in place until the second half of 2001 enshrined centralized and detailed control of labor
relations, reinforcing rigidities in the labor market, and creating unreasonable and unnecessary obligations
on employers. Tax rates on labor are high, discouraging hiring of new workers, and increasing incentives
for informality. The environment for SMEs - typically the source of most employment and fastest
employment growth in Western European economies - is onerous and stymies growth of small firms.
In the area of labor legislation, both Entities inherited the Yugoslavian labor legislation. The RS passed
new labor legislation in 1993, which has been amended several times in recent years, and in 1997
developed an umbrella collective agreement for use in various sectors of the economy. In the case of the
Federation, the first Labor Law was only passed in the second half of 1999, in the face of considerable
opposition from the international community. Both Entities also have a range of other labor legislation,
including laws on strikes, laws dealing with the rights of unemployed etc. The highly rigid labor relations
framework has been a barrier to necessary restructuring, as the costs and bureaucratic constraints on labor
shedding are substantial.
Taxes on labor in BH are even higher than transition economy averages. Despite some reductions in
recent years, labor income in the Federation is subject to a 15 percent wage tax (a withholding tax on
wages net of social insurance contributions), a cantonal personal income tax (at levels up to 50 percent of
the Federation personal income tax rates), and a 45 percent social insurance contribution. In the RS, a
wage withholding tax, a 15-25 percent citizen income tax (which has a regressive structure), and a 44
percent of social insurance tax are levied on labor income. The cumulative tax burden on an average
worker's gross income could be as high as 55 percent. The incentives for non- or partial payment are
therefore high, and contribute to a narrow contributions base. Many firms opt for the informal sector,
while formal sector enterprises often report workers on the minimum wage. Fiscal pressures are
increased by contributions exemptions granted to employers such as the military and police.
Both Entities have programs for payment of unemployment benefits, andprovision of active labor
programs. In addition, contributions are meant to be paid for the registered unemployed for health
insurance in both Entities, and also for pension insurance in the RS. These are administered by
Employment Institutes (Els) in the two Entities (with separate Bosniak and Croat Els in the Federation).
The institutional arrangements are complicated by the continued existence of a "State" level El, the
successor of the BH Employment Institute from former Yugoslavia. This now serves only the Bosniak
areas of the Federation. However, there is also a "Federation" El, also serving Bosniak areas, but which
now receives the payroll transfers intended for public employment programs. It is technically illegal, as it
was never established by law or decree. This has led to a situation where around three quarters of a
million KM per week is paid into a payment bureau account of the FBHEI, with little or no accountability
on how the money is spent.
El programs are financed from payroll taxes. In Republika Srpska, this is one percent of total payroll in
1999 (split between employer and employee). In the Federation, there is a total of three percent, with two
percent from employee and one percent from employer. With the limited financing base and high
2 See Bisogno and Chong, "Poverty and Inequality in BH: The Situation after the War," The World Bank, 2000.



Page 6
registered unemployment, Els are severely constrained in being able to meet their legal obligations for
benefit payments and active programs. This has been exacerbated until very recently by the high
replacement rates on benefits (e.g., 60 percent of last salary in RS, and up to 60 percent of average wage
in FBH.
Social Statistics:
The ability to produce social statistics needed for design, implementation and evaluation of economic and
social policy in BH has been damaged by the war and transition. Three essentially new institutions are
formally responsible for statistics in the country: two Entity level institutes (Federation Institute of
Statistics (FIS) and the Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics (RSIS), and a State level agency created in
April 1998 (BH Agency for Statistics, BHAS). The FIS has been built from the prewar Sarajevo
Regional Office of the Federal Statistical Institute and retains knowledge, some survey skills, material
such as maps, and infrastructure from before the war. About ninety per-cent of their staff are new and
have been trained by the staff remaining from before the war. The RSIS is less well situated in that they
were created from scratch. These two institutes essentially function independently of each other, and the
State statistical agency's formal role is to collate data from the two Entity level offices and create state
level data and reports. They are also responsible for international coordination. The statistical institutes
have limited capacity to produce the entire range of statistics necessary for policy-makers.
One area that has been especially hard hit by the war is that of data collection at the household level.
Prior to the war, the country carried out two surveys, an Income and Expenditure Survey and an
Agricultural survey. At present, no household survey of any sort is being carried out in BH.
In addition to absence of household level data, there are serious problems with administrative statistics.
Data on the number and breakdown of beneficiaries of cash transfer programs, as well as basic
expenditure data, is often not available at all, not available in a timely manner, or not comparable (due to
inconsistent definitions). Those responsible for developing and implementing social policy admit that
this is done on the basis of limited information. They also note that it is very difficult to monitor the basic
incidence of expenditure, as there is little exchange of information across different cash transfer programs
(see above on social assistance).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed credit would provide technical assistance, training and limited equipment support to address
many of the policy areas identified in the previous section.
Overallpolicy and institutional issues: An initial step in strengthening social policy formulation has been
taken with development of medium-term Social Protection Strategies in each Entity. Governments in
both Entities realize that this requires much improved institutional coordination across and within line
ministries and government agencies. In both Entities, Social Protection Commissions have been
established during SOSAC preparation which should contribute to this, which have developed draft
Social Protection Strategies. However, these will need elaboration, with technical support on key areas
such as reforms of social assistance, disability programs, and elements of the labor relations framework.
The SOTAC finances technical support in all these areas which should be of assistance to the relevant
ministries and the Commissions.
An additional exercise which is important for the SP Strategies is the Social Protection Expenditure
Strategy (SPES), which is part of the overall Budget Framework Paper. The first such SPES was
prepared in 2000 for the 2001 budget, and the SOTAC would finance additional rounds of technical
support in 2001 and 2002 for budget preparation in the social protection sector. This is seen as a critical
exercise in getting social policy makers to focus on what are really core priorities. To make this a fully
effective exercise, there would need to be establishment of regular channels of information exchange and



Page 7
centralization to compile and maintain a consolidated presentation on expenditures at various government
levels broken down by social sector area, and technical support will assist in this process.
In both Entities, the relevant ministries recognize the issues of how to configure ministerial and
institutional responsibilities in the most effective manner to promote overall coherence in the social
protection system. The first issue is whether the current configuration of ministerial responsibilities most
effectively promotes the goals of protecting the poor, whatever their social category. This is particularly
the case in the RS, where the health part of the combined health/social welfare portfolio dominates the
agenda of the ministry. A second issue - whatever is determined to be the appropriate configuration of
responsibilities between different public agencies - is how to promote better information sharing and
coordination between different agencies involved in social protection. This needs to happen first at the
policy level, so that there is clearer agreement on overall priorities in social protection. In order to
address the situation, both Entities agreed during SOSAC preparation on Terms of Reference (TOR) for a
functional review of social protection roles at all levels of government, including identifying institutional
strengthening needs. The reviews will be financed under the SOTAC.
Governments in both Entities are also keen to improve their communications about social protection
reforms with the public, including social partners. A first step was taken in the inter-Entity workshop in
December 1999 hosted by the social policy ministries. In order to move ahead, both Entities have agreed
during SOSAC preparation on TOR for a major public information campaign on the nature and objectives
of social protection reforms. This would also include development of guidelines for carrying out of such
campaigns in the future, and financing would be provided under SOTAC.
Social transfers: As part of the SOSAC agenda, the relevant Ministries in each Entity have prepared a
report on Social Assistance which identifies key shortcomings of the present system. This has provided a
base for mutual identification of key technical assistance needs in this area. There are several aspects of
social assistance where the project would provide technical support:
*  Most countries have mechanisms for pooling of risk across areas of different economic status and
with different social needs. How to deal with this issue is critical to the future of social assistance in
BH, particularly in the Federation. The devolution of financing responsibility for social assistance in
both Entities to the canton and/or municipal level has resulted in major disparities in the basic social
safety net in different parts of both Entities. Developing a reformed financing mechanism for social
assistance is a critical need that the project would support.
*  Currently social assistance is based on a categorization mechanism, with extensive involvement of
professionals in ensuring that beneficiaries fit the criteria. Although there is means testing within
some of the categories of benefits, there are gaps in these categories for people who are genuinely
very poor. In principle, the determining criterion for benefit eligibility should be household poverty,
and ilot membership of a social category. However, in practice, this needs to be balanced with the
need to control the administrative costs of targeting. In certain cases where large majorities of a
certain group are very poor, it may be more efficient simply to include them categorically.
Developing targeting criteria that are responsive to administrative capacity and existing information
on poverty would be supported under the project.
*  The current structure of social transfers in BH is overly complex for a state that has such limited
resources. This creates several problems. The first is that beneficiaries receive transfers from several
different sources without there being effective monitoring of the cumulative total of transfers
received. This may be beneficial for the individual, but squeezes resources for others in need. There
is a need to simplify both social assistance and social transfer programs more broadly, then trying to
ensure that the remaining programs are better funded, more simple to administer, and reduce double
dipping problems. An example could be the current unemployment benefit, for which it may make
more sense to divert the resources into general social assistance. However, this will need to be done



Page 8
taking an overview of the whole system of cash transfers, and capacity to do this to date has been
very limited; and requires significant strengthening;
*  Data on the number of claimants and actual beneficiaries of SA are inadequate. The overall number
of SA beneficiaries in mid-1998 was estimated at about 180,000 or 8 percent of the population in the
Federation, but estimates vary substantially either side of this number. The problem exists both at the
lowest administrative levels of the system (CSWs) and at higher ones (canton, Entity and State).
Most CSW, with very few exceptions, are not capable of collecting information about the poorest
people in their municipalities (the number of the poor; their characteristics etc.). They are often weak
even on basic registration of claimants, keeping records updated, or providing detailed information on
the support granted (benefit type, amount granted, source of financing). The proposed sub-
component to support finalization, training and roll-out of a client registry in both Entities would help
to address these shortcomings;
The situation is exacerbated by lack of procedures for data collecting and updating. To date, there are
no uniform forms of registration adopted across the Entity or within cantons in the Federation. There
are plans for introduction of standardized client registries, but this is unlikely to be completed due to
absence of public funds, and is likely an area where limited investment funding is needed to realize
the policy objective. The potential system improvements from improved data availability can be seen
in implementation of a social assistance database in Sarajevo canton, which resulted in a 30 percent
reduction in numbers of beneficiaries, and allowed resources to be concentrated on those more in
need.
*  CSW, as with other government social service institutions, have a base of trained personnel, a
structured communication network, and are recognized community institutions. At the same time,
CSW programs are mostly services of various types: e.g., from psychologists, lawyers and other
professionals. In many cases, they do not include direct financial or material support. Frequently,
institutional care (for the elderly, for handicapped children, for orphans) is offered as the primary
solution. These expert services are expensive and under-resourced. They also result in a high share
of social assistance funds being spent on salaries and administration. In many CSW, over 50 percent
of resources go towards these costs. In an environment with limited resources, there are issues of the
appropriate mix between cash benefits for the poorest and specialized services for those in need. It is
unclear whether delivering cash benefits and services within one institution compromises their
effectiveness, or is it a cost-effective way of delivering a range of services and benefits.
*  During the past several years the international community complemented the public system of social
protection by providing direct resources, particularly food and medical support to those most in need.
With international resources being reduced, the dilemma between providing emergency relief and
supporting a mechanism of social assistance which is sustainable is on the agenda. This raises the
question of how to promote a sensible division of roles between public social services and other
organizations in the community, both local and international. With scarce resources, all available
means should be drawn upon to ensure that those most in need are effectively served, while ensuring
the primary responsibility of the public sector. An important program that the project would support
is to bring together lessons and actors from pilot experiences, and try to support innovative roll-out of
best practices through a small NGO innovation sub-component, which would finance proposals for
further pilot exercises which linked CSW and NGOs.
Labor Market Policy and employment programs: To date, Governments in both Entities have been
reluctant to deal with the trade-offs that will be necessary in labor market policy in order to promote
productive employment opportunities. This can be seen in wage policy, where concessions granted for
wage increases are dealt with through wage arrears, and no policy link is made to labor productivity; in
benefit policy, where generous commitments are made to workers but rarely met in practice; and for other
commitments on terms and conditions of work. This has created an overwhelming need for Governments



Page 9
to develop a new framework for labor relations, which is developed in closer collaboration with social
partners and communicated to the public at large to make them more aware of key policy trade-offs. The
SOTAC would finance technical assistance on selected areas of the labor relations framework, including
the legal framework for collective agreements and other issues.
In the case of Employment Institute programs, there are clear structural problems with sustainability. The
level of payroll tax needed to finance serious programs is beyond what would be desirable in the current
environment of high labor taxes 3. Despite this, the authorities in both Entities anticipate a strengthened
role for Els in dealing with the negative employment impact of privatization programs. Trying to
reconcile the current situation and future objectives will not be possible without a fundamental
reconsideration of the core functions of the Els, and the public sector's ability to finance them.
Governments in both Entities recognize the issues, but have been struggling to develop a coherent
approach. The project would attempt to put technical advice within the overall context of safety net
programs. In addition, the credit would address transparency concerns in existing EIs through financing
of special reviews of all Els.
Social statistics: The importance of houselhold survey data for developing social policy and a social
protection system that will meet the objectives of protecting the poorest has been recognized by
Governments in both Entities. The Bank agreed to help in coordinating assistance (botlh financial and
technical) in this area and in identifying sources of financing and other resources. Efforts will focus not
just on the availability of reliable information but also on ensuring that the information is used when
developing policy and determining spending priorities. The authorities view the development of reliable
data as a key element of their Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP).
The Bank is most interested in providing assistance for a Living Standards Measurement Study Survey
(LSMS), designed to measure welfare levels and the incidence of government spending. The Bank also
recognizes the need for additional surveys. Apart from an LSMS, the Statistical Institutes in BH have
identified priority surveys. The first of these is a labor force survey (LFS), aimed primarily at looking at
the composition of the labor force, economic activities and participation and unemployment rates. The
SOTAC will finance focused technical support to help design and implement the surveys.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
1. Social Protection Policy. This    SP                1.73      45          1.55      44
would support policy development and  (Consultancy,
implementation for: (i) SP strategy and  training)
expenditure strategy development;
(ii) social assistance reforms;
(iii) reform of labor relations
framework and Els programs;
(iv) disability programs reform; and (v)
survey TA.
3See simulations in SOSAC: Labor Market Issues (Abrahart, consultant report, December 1999).



Page 10
2. SP Institutional Strengthening      SP                1.95       50          1.85      52
and Public Information. This would   (Consultancy,
support functional reviews for relevant  training,
ministries, and capacity strengthening    services,
in response to identified needs,     goods)
including at CSWs to rollout client
register. It would also support design
and implementation of public
consultation/information campaigns on
social policy reform, and the
NGO/CSW innovation fund.
3. Project Implementation. This         SP              $0.20        5         $0.15       5
would support project management,   Recurrent
contracting out project               costs
management/procurement and FM
functions to existing PlUs.
Total Project Costs                                      3.88      100          3.55     100
Total Finance Required                                   3.88         -         3.55        -
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support policy and institutional reforms in social protection and social statistics. The
proposed credit would work in tandem with the proposed SOSACI and SOSACII, which would be the
main vehicles for leveraging major policy reform in these areas. The SOTAC has been designed so that it
would provide technical support and capacity building in areas where this would be needed either to carry
out reforms under the SOSAC agenda (outlined in the LDP for the SOSAC, which is attached as
Annex 1 1), or to make sure that reforms were implemented in an effective manner. The main areas where
this would be relevant are: (i) social transfers policy and implementation; (ii) labor market policy,
including institutional arrangements for labor relations; and (iii) social statistics, to ensure not only that
representative social statistics were collected, but that they would be freely available to the public, and
that mechanisms are in place to ensure that line ministries use them in policy development.
An important additional reform which the project would support is to increase harmonization of benefit
and SP policy frameworks between the two Entities. Due to the common inheritance, the two Entities
share may structural features of their safety net and labor relations frameworks. However, there are
important areas of divergence, or absence of mutual recognition of rights. With an overarching objective
of Government and Bank policy being promotion of a single economic space and promoting conditions
which would facilitate return, the programming of technical assistance (TA) under the proposed credit
which would work across Entities is seen as a way of promoting this objective in the social sectors.
Institutionally, the proposed functional review work would be likely to result in recommendations on
reconfiguration of responsibilities for different areas of SP within Entity governments. In the RS in
particular, it is felt that the present ministerial configurations are not efficient. Just as importantly, the
credit overall would aim to build capacity within ministries to design and implement policy, so that
central ministries could evolve into more effective leaders of SP reforms.



Page 1 1
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be: (i) greater coherence in the policy and institutional frameworks
for SP in BH; (ii) a more effective social safety net in both Entities, which would allow resources to be
more effectively targeted on the poorest, regard less of their location within the Entity;
(iii) a labor relations framework which is more conducive to employment growth, and private sector
investment and activity; (iv) social statistics which will enable government and others to monitor living
standards, and to use results in reforms to social protection policy; and (v) strengthening capacity of
different actors within social protection to design and implement social programs.
The target populations are several:
*  in terms of benefits derived from an improved safety net, the main beneficiaries should be the
poorest, in particular in areas where current financing arrangements have results in barely existent
social assistance programs;
*  for labor market reforms, all workers ad potential workers should in principle benefit over the longer
run. However, in the initial stages, the main benefits of more flexible labor relations are likely to be
those currently out of work or entering the labor force, as proposed reforms are likely to result in
decreased security of tenure for those already in work;
*  all the proposed measures should have direct benefits for local counterparts who are active in the SP
and social statistics systems, through capacity strengthening activities; and
*  it is hoped that the proposed NGO/CSW innovation sub-component will result in benefits for local
NGOs, and client communities in areas where proposals are implemented.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The counterpart agencies for the credit would be Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and
Displaced Persons in FBH, and Ministries of Veterans' Affairs, War Casualties and Labor, and
Health/Social Welfare in RS. The inter-Entity Social Policy Task Force would also act as an important
policy discussion forum so that the views and concerns of the non-government sector (local and
international) are reflected in policy development. This would also promote the large goal of increased
policy harmonization between Entities. The Social Protection Commissions in each Entity would also be
a key policy interlocutor during project life, to ensure that the analysis and recommendations coming out
of the technical work feed into policy development and implementation.
It is proposed that existing PIUs in both Entities for implementation of the Pilot Emergency Labor
Redeployment Project (PELRP) be used to undertake project management functions for the project. This
would control project management costs, and makes sense, given that the PIUs come under the
responsibility of the same counterpart ministries in both Entities. The PIUs have project management,
procurement and financial management capacity in place, and project specific assessments have been
carried out on PIUs.
Financial Management
The proposed Credit is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika Srpska and
the other in Federation of BH). The IDA Credit will be lent to the Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, which will on-lend the proceeds of the credit to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(FBH) and Republika Srpska (RS). The counterpart agencies for the credit would be Ministry of Labor,
Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons in FBH, and Ministries of Veterans' Affairs, War
Casualties and Labor, and Health/Social Welfare in RS. The inter-Entity Social Policy Task Force would
also act as an important policy discussion forum so that the views and concerns of the non-government
sector (local and international) are reflected in policy development. This would also promote the large
goal of increased policy harmonization between Entities.



Page 12
The Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project's (PELRP) Project Implementing Unit (PIU) in the
Federation and the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) in the RS will be the implementing
agencies for the Project. The PRJ and ETF will be charged with managing contracting and expenditure
under the project and coordinating project activities. Each Entity will be responsible for its own financial
management of the project (see Annex 6B for detailed financial management arrangements). Until the
Federation PIU has been certified by the Bank as meeting the minimum financial management
requirements, it is to sub-contract the financial management services to Public Works and Employment
Project's PIU (LORA) which has the necessary capacity and skills to provide such services. LORA was
assessed by the Bank in May 2000 during the preparation of the PELRP and it has the minimum financial
management requirements. As part of the agreed financial management services, LORA will provide an
accounting software, ongoing technical support and financial expertise to the PIU.
In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the LACI requirement, a Bank accredited financial management
specialist reviewed the proposed financial management systems between July and September 2000. The
objective of the review was to determine whether the project has in place adequate financial management
systems as required by the Bank/IDA. Based on the assessment, it is found that the PIU in the Federation
and ETF in the RS satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, the PIU
and ETF do not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project [Project Management
Reports (PMRs)] as required by the Bank/IDA. An agreed action plan (see Annex 6B) to produce a
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project (PMRs) required by the Bank/IDA, has been accepted by PIU in the Federation and the ETF in the
RS. The initial steps in the action plan have already been taken. The key steps include:
*     Written notification to the Bank from the MFTER of BH, by August 31, 2000, confirming
that Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit will be included in the global auditing
contract;
*     The PIU in Federation is to finalize institutional arrangement for contracting out financial
management to LORA and initially sign the contract stating the types and scope which will
be provided by the LORA, September 15, 2000;
*     PIU and ETF are to revise financial manual to reflect the specifics of this project, September
30, 2000;
*     Complete the design and development of accounting software for the preparation of all PMRs
in accordance with the PMR templates provided, by October 31, 2000;
*     Finalization of 2001 Budget, including recording and allocation of total budget in the
accounting system - by month, and by year, by activities, by categories, by sources and by
account codes, by December 31, 2000;
*     Reliable PMRs and satisfactory to the World Bank, by February 15, 2002;
*     Reliable budget and budget revision when compared against the actual, by February 15, 2002;
*     PIU and ETF are capable of meeting satisfactory supervision report, satisfactory withdrawal
applications, satisfactory audit, especially internal controls, by February 15, 2002; and
*     Review of the financial management arrangement by the Financial Management Specialist,
by February 28, 2002.
The project financial statements would be prepared in accordance with the format provided by the Bank.
This would also include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation of Special Account
(disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures or PMRs). An independent auditor
acceptable to the World Bank would audit the project financial statements, and the audit report would be
sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations (MFTER) of BH has signed a 3-year contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with
PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands in June 1999 for the audit of all Bank's financed non-revenue



Page 13
earning projects in BH. Based on satisfactory performance, the MFTER renewed the contract with the
same auditors in January 2000 for the 1999 audits. This arrangement would be acceptable to the Bank.
In accordance with the agreed action plan, a written notification to the Bank from the MFTER of BH was
submitted on August 31, 2000, that Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit will be included in the
global auditing contract. It is expected that the cost of audit will be financed from the credit.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system [reimbursements
with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and direct payments] and would
be considered for conversion to the new disbursement procedures (i.e., based on Project Management
Reports - PMRs) after the FMS is operating satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is around
one year after expected project start date. Proceeds of the World Bank credit would be allocated in
accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Govemment will
establish, maintain and operate, under termns and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special
Accounts denominated in US$ for the Federation-PIU and the RS-PIU. Currently no local banks in the
country could be considered totally reliable and financially sound. It is therefore recommended that
banks outside BH should be used.
When the financial management system is implemented, each Entity will prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs), which would be submitted, to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each
quarter. These reports would be used for project management purposes for tracking project progress,
procurement and disbursement. The following areas would be covered by the PMRs: (a) Financial
Report - project sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity, project balance sheet, project
cash withdrawals, Special Account statement, project cash forecast; (b) Project Progress Report - output
monitoring reports for contract management and unit of output by project activity; and (c) Procurement
Management Report - procurement process monitoring for goods, works and consultants' services,
contract expenditure reports for goods and works and consultants' services. First quarterly PMRs, for
quarter ended December 31, 2001, will be submitted to the Bank by February 15, 2002. The PMRs will
be in a format discussed during negotiations and will follow examples given in the Bank's LACI
Implementation Handbook.
Project Implementation Manual
A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) is being prepared with assistance from the Bank to facilitate
project management and implementation. The final PIM will include: (i) detailed project objectives and
description; (ii) complete terms of reference for technical assistance and implementation support; (iii)
financial management arrangements, (iv) summary of procedures for monitoring project implementation;
(v) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications under the Credit; (vi) methods of procurement to be
followed as per the Procurement Schedule in the Credit Agreement; (vii) guidelines for the use of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and overall project funds; (viii) procedures for using the Special
Account, including those for replenishment; and (ix) sample bidding documents and contracts for
technical assistance and goods. Assurances were received at Negotiations that the PIM will be completed
and maintained in a form satisfactory to IDA.
Mid Term Review
At the time of the estimated mid-point of the project, the Borrower (through the PIUs) will be required to
undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project. This review will be undertaken in
consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Once the project is completed, the PLUs of both Entities will prepare, in collaboration with IDA, an
Implementation Completion Report. The ICR should be completed not later than six months after final



Page 14
disbursement of the Credit proceeds. The ICR will include an assessment of the execution of the project,
costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, IDA and other agencies
involved in project implementation, and lessons learned. The ICR will also include plans for the future
operation of the facilities which had been financed under the project, including proposed indicators to
monitor and evaluate future operations.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As the proposed project is a specific companion TA credit for the SOSAC, other lending instruments
were not considered. The main design issue was therefore the proposed size of the credit, and priority
activities to be financed. The priorities were determined with local counterparts during the preparation of
SOSAC/SOTAC, including close consultation with non-government actors through the December 1999
design workshop, and subsequent consultations.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Im plementation     Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                        Emergency Recovery      S                  S
Credit (closed)
Under preparation
SOSACI - Social         (Board presentation
Protection policy       scheduled early
conditionality         calendar 2001)
PFSACII - conditionality    S              S
on pensions and veterans'
benefits
Other development agencies           DFID - Social Policy local
Govt. of Sweden - supportE 
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lesson of ongoing adjustment operations in BH is that policy reform needs to be accompanied by
institutional strengthening and longer-term involvement with implementing agencies, if reforms are to be
effective in practice. During recent CAS discussions, government counterparts identified the need for
such companion credits with adjustment lending as an important step in strengthening institutions, and
thereby increasing the success of the reform agenda. In many cases, other donors are able to finance
technical assistance on grant terms, and this is generally preferable. However, experience with the social
protection and social statistics areas in recent years has shown that: (i) other donors want to see the Bank
with its own funds "on the table", as a demonstration of its own commitment and that of governments
(e.g., household survey reforms); (ii) donors tend to prefer discrete investments in this field, e.g., in pilot
areas to reform local management boards. It has been more difficult to mobilize sector-wide TA for
policy reform and institutional strengthening; and (iii) experience in preparation of SOSAC has shown



Page 15
that even close efforts at coordination can be undermined where consultants are not responsive to Bank
suggestions for reorientation of their work.
In the initial stages post-war, such technical assistance support was relatively easy to mobilize, but
declining donor finances for BH suggest that this will become more difficult in coming years. Equally, in
the social protection area, the necessary policy reforms are not areas where donors typically have the
visibility that they require for their programs (as against, e.g., repaired schools or hospitals). It has also
become clear that donors are more likely to support sectoral reforms where they feel that the Bank itself
has something "on the table" by way of institutional/investment support, both as an indication of its own
commitment to the agenda, and the governments'.
A second important lesson of the ongoing transition is that the second wave of post-conflict recovery
involves policy and institutional reforms which present greater political challenges. The population of
BH has to a large extent yet to understand that post-conflict recovery does not mean a reversion to pre-
war social and economic relations. In that sense, they are only now facing the need for raising public
awareness of the objectives and challenges of structural reform. This is particularly so in the social
sectors, where most people still do not appreciate that entitlements must be financed from public
revenues, and must therefore adjust to the realities of revenue performance.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During a preparatory workshop for the SOSAC held in Sarajevo in December 1999 - jointly hosted by the
relevant ministries from each Entity - local stakeholders identified the need for institutional strengthening
as a key element of making social protection reforms sustainable. Thus, the idea for a companion TA
credit for SOSAC came out of the needs of local counterparts. The need for such assistance has also been
consistently stressed in SPTF discussions. At the higher levels of Government, the initiation of an
Economic Development Strategy (EDS) and in the near future I-PRSP are also indications that the reform
agenda being supported by the SOTAC are key elements of the economic development strategy in both
Entities. Finally, the SOTAC was confirmed within CAS discussions in April 2000, and in part of the
program of the CAS approved in June 2000.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is viewed by both local counterparts and the international community in BH as the natural
leader agency on social protection reform. While there are several actors who have initiated important
local level pilots to improve administration and management of social protection, the comparative
advantage of the Bank is the sectoral knowledge and exposure to draw out linkages across the social
sectors, and to fiscal/budgetary planning. The linkage to adjustment operations is also an important
feature of Bank value-added in the sector, as the combination of policy-based and investment lending can
support a more integrated approach to issues. The linkage to policy-based lending is strengthened by
close collaboration with the IMF on the social protection elements of their Stand-by Arrangement (SBA).
In the labor legislation area, the Bank has been involved with Government, OHR and ILO on the
Commission for Labor Reform for the past several months. While ILO has traditionally taken a lead on
labor legislation work, it has been considered important by Government and the international community
(IC) to involve the Bank, so that the economic perspective is brought into discussions of labor legislation.
The Bank's capacity to do this is reinforced by involvement of other Bank staff in privatization and other
area of private sector development.
In the area of social statistics, it has been agreed with Governments and the IC that the Bank's experience
with LSMS and poverty analysis places it in a leading position to be the focal international agency in
survey reform. While institutions such as EUROSTAT have clear advantages in the strictly statistical
side of support, the linkages which the Bank can support to line ministries is considered critical.



Page 16
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
[] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[x] Other (specify)
As the project is a companion technical assistance operation, no cost benefit or cost effectiveness analysis
was carried out, which is standard practice for similar operations. The main project-financed activity
susceptible to such analysis is the investment in the Centers for Social Work database, which is intended
to improve the effectiveness of social assistance services. As indication of the cost effectiveness of the
intervention can be gained from pilot experience with installation of such a database in Sarajevo canton
during 1999. As a result of the double-counting and other beneficiary problems identified, the CSW for
Sarajevo was able to reduce the aggregate number of social assistance beneficiaries by 30 percent,
allowing available resources to be increased for the remainder of those most in need, and/or eliminate
"double dipping" by beneficiaries who were unjustifiably benefiting from different programs simply due
to lack of coordination in administration. Were similar problems to be identified on a national basis, the
cost effectiveness of the project investment for this activity would be high.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
As the bulk of project financing is international technical assistance, project costings were obtained by
comparing unit costs of similar consultancy assignments in BH, both in the social protection sector and
other sectors. The main two components where this does not hold are: the CSW databases; and the NGO
Innovation sub-component. For the first, cost estimates were based on materials prepared by both Entity
ministries, which outlined main needs and projected costs. These have also been reviewed subsequently
in a consultant report. For the NGO Innovation sub-component, costs comparisons were obtained though
reviewing unit costs of similar efforts that have been funded by NGOs. The project costs are therefore
felt to be robust for all components.
Fiscal Impact:
On financing, MOFs in both Entities have agreed to include the project in the program, and do not
anticipate that there will be difficulties with counterpart funding contributions. The direct fiscal impact of
such a small credit would be minimal, though the counterpart-funding requirement would place a small
demand on the Entity budgets. However, it is hoped that the technical assistance and capacity building
will contribute to design and implementation of reforms which will lead to greater resource efficiency in
the social safety net. While this may well result in certain programs receiving more funding, the net
effect on SSN expenditures should not place additional fiscal pressure, due to rationalization across
programs. In the longer run, it is hoped that the labor market reforms to be supported will increase labor
demand in the formal sector, and lead to a deeper and wider tax base.
3. Technical:
The technical issues surrounding the project relate mainly to the specific details of sectoral reforms for
which the design would be supported under the SOTAC. Some of the notable technical issues are:
* In designing an improved social assistance system, there are considerable complexities in both
Entities - though more so in FBH. Part of the issue is that social protection is mainly a financing and
implementation responsibility of the sub-Entity level, though policy setting is done at the Entity level.
At the same time, the policy reforms desired would require greater pooling of revenues at the Entity
level, in order to provide some sort of social assistance equalization fund. Most counterparts -
including in cantons in FBH that might be losers from greater pooling - argue that the Dayton



Page 17
responsibilities do allow for such pooling and role for the Entity ministries. However, framing this
expanded role in a way that is fiscally and politically feasible will be technically challenging;
*  In the area of social statistics, there has been considerable work to develop a master-sampling frame
which would allow for representative household surveys. This will need considerably more technical
support in coming months. Given the problems with new administrative boundaries, movement of
people and many other issues, this will be a challenging task; and
*  On the public information campaigns, there will be considerable work needed to move officials away
from the current notion that publication of finalized government decisions in the official gazette
constitutes adequate public information. The challenge will be to build capacity not only for
communication of decisions already taken, but for more thorough consultation as policy is developed.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing Agencies:
Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons (FBH); Ministries of Veterans' Affairs,
War Casualties and Labor, and Health and Social Welfare (RS). The position with executing agencies is
less complex in the FBH, where the MLSPRDPs is the logical focal point for the various initiatives
supported. In the RS, the situation is more complex, due to the split between labor and social assistance
across different ministries. This split is one that officials at different levels in RS admit is not efficient,
and see one likely outcome of the functional review as being a more reasonable ministerial configuration.
If this were to occur, it would simplify counterpart arrangements. In any event, the Social Protection
Commissions and inter-Entity Social Protection Task Force (SPTF) would act as an important
consultative body with the technical staff in both Entities, and promote mutual learning and harmonized
approaches where possible.
4.2 Project Management:
The main management demands of the project would be procurement of consultancy and training, with
the need for specific Financial Management features. The Financial Management System (FMS)
demanded by the project itself would be simple, due to the relatively small number of transactions.
However, as it is proposed to contract management to the Employment Training Foundation in the RS
and Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project's PIU in the Federation, the need would be to make
sure that transactions associated with SOTAC were recorded separately.
4.3 Procurement Issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was done on the PIUs in each Entity during and following appraisal
by a Bank PAS, and capacity was assessed as adequate in accordance with LACI guidelines. Given that
the assessment was of two PIUs which have previously been assessed, the assessment also benefited from
earlier reviews under PELRP and other projects. In the RS, the PIU has several years experience in
implementing IDA-financed projects, including all the procurement methods proposed under the SOTAC.
In FBH, the experience of the PIU is more limited, but the procurement staff were assessed as having
adequate capacity. The FBH PIU will also benefit from joint procurement of all complex consultancy
assignments together with the RS PIU. In light of this, there are no significant procurement issues or
risks anticipated under the project.
4.4 Financial Management Issues.
A review of the FMS was undertaken between July and September 2000, to: (a) assess the
project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; (b) review the presence of the necessary
elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project accounting,
project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the
financial management system to achieve Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement that
would assist the project to move towards LACI. A report on the Review of Financial Management



Page 18
System, dated September 2000 and prepared by Siew Chai Ting, is included in the project files and in the
Project Implementation Plan.
The ETF complied fully with the audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects and there were no
significant accounting issues reported by the auditors in the most recent audits, for the year ended
December 31, 1999. The Federation PIU, a new implementing agency since May 2000, has not been
audited by the auditors.
Draft accounting and financial flow for the SOTAC is described in detail in the attached Annex 6B. PIU
and ETF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all
activities of the project. The financial flows for all activities in the SOTAC will be: (a) from the PIU and
ETF to NGOs via service contracts for NGO/CSW Innovation sub-component; (b) direct payment from
Special Account to consultancy firms for large contracts, and (c) payments from Special Account to
consultants for small contracts, predominantly foreign consultants.
From the financial management perspective, the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit is considered
as medium-risk project. The main reasons for this rating are that the majority of project costs relate to
large international consultancy contracts and small operating costs. Only one component (the proposed
NGO/CSW Innovation sub-component of $600,000) is considered high risk. The key financial
management risks include: (i) inadequate internal controls mechanism in PIU and ETF; (ii) delays in
preparation of project management reports; (iii) poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BH; (iv) the roles of the NGOs in the disbursement of innovation sub-component; (v)
unsatisfactory working relationship between PIU and LORA in the Federation, leading to poor financial
management services; and (vi) public perceptions of corruption. These risks are considered as
manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken (see Annex 6B).
The project's financing plan, which includes credit from the Bank, and the project's planned expenditures
have been realistically estimated and that the project is financially sustainable.
5. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category  C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.



Page 19
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The areas dealt with have important social impact. While no stand-alone Social Assessment has been
done for this project, the following elements of the Bank's other social and analytical work are relevant to
the chosen areas of focus for the credit:
* The draft Poverty Note prepared using CIET survey data from 1996-97 suggests that there is strong
regional variation in the level of poverty, and equally that inequality is among the highest in the
SEE/CEE region. While the data are somewhat outdated, other evidence on the evolution of living
standards in the interim suggests that the problems persist. This can easily be seen at the Entity level
comparison, with average wages and social benefits being considerable lower in RS than FBH to a
degree far outweighing the relative cost of living. The persistence of such inequalities suggests that
the proposed project support for developing a more equalizing social safety net is well placed;
* A BH Social Assessment was prepared in 1999. This found that unemployment was higher than even
official statistics indicated (e.g., almost 60 percent for non-agricultural unemployment). It also found
very strongly that generation of more productive employment was viewed as the key need by all
people, both in terns of economic development and social stability. The SOTAC's emphasis on
improving the labor relations framework to make it more supportive of employment creation is
consistent with these findings; and
- The Social Assessment also revealed a widespread distrust of public institutions and perception of
corruption. It is also hoped that the SOTAC's public information and consultation component can
begin to address this gap between policy makers and the population. However, this will need to be a
two-way process, whereby governments not only listen to their own people and social partners more,
but where they make clearer than in the past what are realistic expectations of government policy and
programs, given fiscal and other constraints.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are stakeholders participating in the project?
As part of preparation of the SOSAC, there has been intensive discussion with a wide range of
stakeholders. In particular, there was a planning workshop in December 1999 in Sarajevo. This had
participation from Government, social policy practitioners in government and outside, academics, donors,
and NGOs (local and international). The participants actively contributed to identifying the main areas
where technical support and institutional strengthening was needed in both Entities, and the SOTAC was
designed to response to the needs identified.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See above under 1999 workshop and SPTF. While many of the participants were not direct project
beneficiaries, participation included representatives of most groups of stakeholders. In addition to those
identified above, opposition political parties and members of the press were participants. The project
team has also interacted intensively during design with a range of local players in the SP sector, including
the NGO Council, Social and Economic Rights Co-ordination Group, and individual donors and NGOs
(DFID, CARE, Swiss Coordination Office, IBHI, IRC, CIDA, IFRC).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The two main institutional channels for ensuring that the project achieves its development outcomes -
beyond the regular project monitoring of the PlUs in each Entity - are: (i) ongoing consultation with the
Social Protection Commissions in each Entity, established during SOSAC/SOTAC preparation. The
Commissions are composed of officials of Assistant Minister or equivalent rank, and will be important
institutions for monitoring project progress, ensuring that regular briefing and lobbying of higher level



Page 20
officials is adequate to ensure that whatever project activities need support from the highest levels receive
it; and (ii) ongoing consultation and participation in the Social Protection Task Force, the inter-Entity
body for consultation on social policy issues. The SPTF includes not only Government, but also NGOs,
donors and members of BH civil society (e.g. academics; trade unions). It therefore provides a useful
channel for monitoring project progress in the field, as the NGOs in particular have strong field presence.
As it also includes local level social protection officials (e.g. Directors of municipal CSWs), there will
also be good feedback from within the public system on project progress towards achieving its social
development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Within the PIM, a series of project Monitoring &Evaluation (M&E) indicators are being developed which
will provide the base for performance monitoring (see Annex 1). This will be a key element of regular
project reporting by the PIUs, and reviewed during regular IDA supervision missions. From IDA, the
presence of key project staff (Social Protection Specialist, Operations Officer, FMS and PAS) in the
Sarajevo Resident Mission will also enable regular field-based monitoring of project performance
between supervision missions. More broadly, the project team and PlUs will rely on NGOs to provide
regular assessments on social development outcomes of the project, particularly for non-consultancy
activities such as the CSW client registry and the NGO innovation activities. This will be coordinated
through the SPTF. A series of workshops with consultants during their assignments will also allow for
ongoing feedback from social protection actors to maximize the relevance and impact of the technical
assistance.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                  No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                          No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                           No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                         No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                    No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                     No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)          No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main risk to project sustainability in narrow termns is ensuring that Government counterpart
contributions are made in a timely manner. As earlier emergency procedures had not required
government contributions, government has been slow to recognize their new obligations in some cases,
although there are already examples (e.g., the Basic Health Project) where counterpart contributions have
been paid into project accounts.
The question that is more difficult to predict is the sustainability of reform measures supported through
project technical assistance. From a fiscal standpoint, it is hoped that they will clearly be more



Page 21
sustainable. The more complex issue is the social reception of reforms, as most will harm the interests of
strong vested interests, particularly in the social safety net. In the labor area, there is also a social risk of
sustainability, given the resistance of trade unions in particular to a more liberal labor relations regime.
Given the governments' track record of backing down in the face of union resistance, this risk should not
be underestimated.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Resistance of trade unions and others to labor   H       Public information and consultation
reform agenda                                            procedures; study tours etc. for TU
leaders;
Resistance to pooling of resources for social    S-H     Persuade authorities at all levels of
safety net                                               social stability objective.
Budgetary prioritization in SP reinforces  S             Work closely with authorities in
existing expenditure patterns                            BFP discussions;
From Components to Outputs
Government counterpart funding not timely  M-S
PIU FM and procurement capacity inadequate   M-S         Use of existing PIU staff in RS and
FBH.
Devolution of SP roles results in uncoordinated  S       Involvement of pilot cantons in BFP
policy reforms.                                          discussions; SPTF inputs of sub-
Entity staff; public information ad
training at local level.
Main line ministries have insufficient capacity  S-H     Functional review and capacity
to deliver on reform program design and                  assessment, followed by capacity
implementation.                                          building technical support.
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While the project itself should not be controversial, and is supported by key stakeholders, many of the
measures which may come out as recommendations from project-financed TA could well be (see above
on sustainability). Given the small size of the project and this risk, it is not proposed to attach any serious
policy conditionality to the Credit, so that perceived linkages with unpopular measures are minimized. At
the same time, it is hoped that the public information/consultation component will help build public
awareness of the need for fundamental reforms in social policy.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  A draft Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been adopted by each Entity PIU;
and
*  A Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each Entity on
terns and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other:
* The PIUs will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) which detail project financing



Page 22
needs and sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe the financial
situation of the project in terms of actual versus planned expenditures for each project activity;
*  The PIUs will provide annual financial statement within six months after the end of each fiscal year;
*  The PIUs will ensure that the financial statement, special account(s), SOEs and PMRs are audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards of auditing acceptable to
the Bank; and
*  The PIUs will open and properly maintain Special Accounts, acceptable to the Bank.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x] 1. b) Not applicable.
[] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) Project Implementation Manual.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Lead        ip O'Keefe, ECSHW-
Secto   an       IC   R
Country Director: C4



Page 23
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Sector-related CAS Goal:         Sector Indicators:               ector / Country Reports:           (from Goal to Bank
*   strengthening govemance and  *   improved communication    *   EDS for BH (under                 Mission)
institutions;                    between central agencies in     preparation);                       Overall CAS strategy
m fostering private sector led        SP and with sub-Entity         I-PRSP (to be prepared);            implemented, and key
growth;                          authorities;                    Bank supervision reports.           interest groups
*   building social sustainability,                                                                      cooperatnve;
through an improved SSN                                                                          * Governments pursue
and reliable social statistics.                                                                      responsible policiest
Project Development Objective:   Outcome / Impact Indicators:   Project Reports:                     (from Objective to Goal)
o support development of         *   improved coordination in                                            r regular Bank supervision  different SP actors
institutional and budgetary      SP policy development,         reports;                             willing to engage
mechanisms for development       leading to more coherent    *   EDS ad I-PRSP.                      collaboratively. both
and prioritization of social     and consistent policies n                                           withint areaacross
policy in BH;                    which are fiscally                                                  Entities;
*   improve the policy                sustainable; a                                                     social partners and
framework for generation of      labor legislation which is                                          population understand
productive employment            more flexible;                                                      objectives of LM
opportunities;               * an improved social                                                    reforms and support
*   improve the impact and            assistance system in place;                                        them;
efficiency of the social safety   * capacity development in                                         losuberstity areasthat arein
programs on the needs of the     our representative                                                  of SA funds willing to
poorest; and                     household surveys.                                                  cooperate;
*   strengthen the social statistics                                                                 *   political forces - local
base in order to ensure that                                                                         and international -
social policy is formulated on                                                                       support conducting
a well-informed basis.                                                                              representative household
surveys.



Page 24
Output from each component:       Output Indicators:               Project Reports:                     (from Outputs to
*   Approved SP Strategies for  *   SP Strategies and expenditure    Objective)
*   a revamped process for             2001-2004;                      strategies approved and
deciding SP priorities and    *   SP Expenditure Strategies        available;                      *   Entitv governments in
putting them into practice;       for each budget year;       *   PIC materials available for           place after November
*   a core body f labor legislation   *   passage of amendments to     supervision mission review:          2000 elections retain
that creates a supportive         key labor legislation in    *   Draft labor legislation               commitment to reforms;
enabling environment for          each Entity which                amendments to be reviewed in    *   Social partners willing
private sector growth;            promotes better private          coordination with Bank;              to engage in dialogue
*   the general public and social      sector enabling             *   Report on training of staff under    and consultation on
partners are better informed      environment;                     project by PIl;                      social policy reforms;
about the objectives and      *   development of effective    *   Relevant ministries to verify    *   Adequate consensus
nature of proposed social          public information/             roll-out of standard client          between Entity and sub-
policy reforms;                    consultation programs on        register;                            Entity levels of
*   capacity at central and local      social policy reforms, and    *   Regular Bank supervision           Government on SP
level in SP system is              carrying out public             reports;                             reform priorities.
strengthened;                      information campaigns;     *   Implementation reports from
*   capacity is develop to         *   staff trained in different      PIU (semi-annually). including
produce and analyze reliable       elements of project;            PMRs quarterly
social statistics.            *   Centers for Social Work
which are operating        *   External audits (annual),
standard client systems by
end of project period;
*   adoption of reforms to
Entity SP laws to reflect
greater resource: pooling
and equalization in social
assistance:
*   sample frame agreed and
LFS and LSMS carried out
and data freely available
for analysis.
Project Components/Sub-           Inputs: (budget for each         Project Reports:                     (from Components to
components:                       component)                                                            Outputs)
*   Regular Bank supervision
1. Social Protection Policy       $1.73 million                        reports:                         *   Entity govemments in
*   Implementation reports from          place after November
2. SP  Institutional strengthening  $1.95 million                      PIU (semi-annually), including       2000 elections retain
and public information.                                                PMRs quarterly;                      commitment to reforms:
*   Extemnal audits (annual).        * Social partners willing
3. Project implementation.        $0.2 million                                                              to engage in dialogue
and consultation on
social policy reforms;
* Adequate consensus
between Entity and sub-
Entity levels of
Government on SP
reform priorities.



Page 25
Annex 2: Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
The following outlines proposed components of the SOTAC. The objective of the SOTAC is to provide
technical assistance and other capacity building in areas which are key to the policy agenda to be supported by
both SOSACI and SOSACII, and will also enable a more continuity in the policy dialogue with the authorities.
Where feasible, the aim will be to coordinate activities closely between Entities, e.g., common procurement of
consultancy which would be implemented in both Entities where feasible. This should support the general
objective of promoting harmonization between the different systems. The proposed project would be
implemented over approximately 2.5 years. Terms of Reference for a number of the assignments outlined above
are presented in Annex 4.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.73 million
Social Protection Policy Component
This component would include technical assistance, training, workshops and study tours in different aspects of
social protection policy. Specifically, TA would be provided for:
*  Social assistance technical assistance (US$ 600,000): This would support technical assistance in a range of
areas associated with social assistance including design and operation of future Entity-level equalization
funds; assessment and improvement of procedures in CSW; assessment of existing social work methods,
which are frequently outdated by European standards; providing consultants for training of social protection
staff etc.
* Special reviews of Employment Institutes (US$350, 000): This would support special reviews of all
Employment Institutes in BH (State, Federation, Mostar and RS);
* TechnicalAssistance on disability programs (US$200, 000): The current disability programs are
characterized by limited informnation on beneficiary eligibility across different programs, over complex
categorization etc. Equally, there is an over-reliance in many cases on institutional care, when other forms
of care would be more effective and less costly. This sub-component would support technical assistance
and workshops to expose staff to international practice, and support reforms in the system of disability in
BH;
*  Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance (US$300,000): This would finance a range of
technical assistance needs in all areas of the labor relations framework, including labor legislation, the
institutional framework for wage bargaining, etc. It is also proposed to include training for officials and
representatives of the social partners (trade unions and employer associations) in order to expose them to
practices in other countries. It is proposed that the technical assistance in this area be done under an
umbrella contract with ILO, which has the comparative advantage as an institution in such areas, and good
connections with social partners in many countries. As ILO are an executing rather than funding agency,
such a component could support their more active involvement and support to BH;
* Social Protection Expenditure Strategy (US$200, 000): This would support the SPES exercise initiated in
2000, in order to prepare SPES for the 2002 and 2003 budgets, as part of the overall Budget Framework
Papers;



Page 26
* Social Statistics (US$100,000): Along with other donors, the Bank has been supporting design and planned
implementation of a series of representative surveys, including a Living Standards Monitoring Survey
(LSMS) and Labor Force Survey. This sub-component would finance continued support to the Statistical
Institutes, through training and other needs.
Project Component 2 - US$1.95 million
Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public Information Component
This would support a number of areas, including several where TOR will have been agreed under SOSACI, and
implementation will be carried out between SOSACI and SOSACII. The TA is also seen as crucial for
preparatory work for SOSACII.
*  Functional review of Social Protection in both Entities (US$250, 000). This would not only review existing
roles and responsibilities across the social protection sector, but also aim to identify key skills development
and institutional strengthening needs in the main ministries and agencies involved in social protection. This
work would be coordinated with UK DFID;
* Public information campaigns on objectives and nature of labor market and social protection refornms
(US$400, 000): It is clear from SOSAC preparation that the public and social partners frequently are
uninformed on the content of reforms, and rarely understand the objectives. This leads to situations where
misinformation is given to the public through various channels, and support for reforms is undermined.
SOTAC would provide support for design and implementation of public information campaign(s) on labor
market and social protection reforms;
-  Other Training (US$300,000): There would be training for social protection staff at different levels in order
to expose them further to international practice in key areas where reforms are being designed or
implemented. This would involve workshops, study tours, and other training;
*  Client registries for Centers for Social Work (US$400, 000): This has been identified as a clear priority by
social welfare officials in both Entities. While considerable work has already been done on developing
programs for client registries, there are a range of needs in order to put the system in place, and ensure that it
is effective, including minor equipment/networking, training of staff in use of systems, review of the
existing database to ensure that it covers informational needs without putting unnecessary demands on CSW
staff etc;
*  NGO/CSW innovation consultancies (US$600, 000): The objective of this sub-component would be to
support innovative collaborations between local NGOs and CSWs, e.g., on contracting out of service
provision for particular services such as home-based elderly care. The component would review funding
applications from local NGOs, which would require endorsement of the local CSW to be considered. Based
on a short list for the small value contracts, the sub-component would finance contracts with the successful
NGOs. The Project Implementation Manual would outline agreed criteria for assessing proposals from
NGOs.
Project Component 3 - US$0.2 million
Project Implementation Component
This component would support costs of project management, procurement and financial management. These
services would be contracted on a consultancy basis to the existing PIUs (ETF in RS and PELRP PIU in FBH),
in order to keep costs to a minimum for such a small project. There may also be needs for software for FM
specifically for the project. This component would also finance audits of the project accounts.



Page 27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Table 3 aPr ect Cost by Component
1SoilProtection Policy
Part A                                      ~~~~     ~     ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~0.13  0.93  1.06
Part B                                                      0.07           0.47           0.54
2. Social Protection Institutional strengthening and public
information
Part A                                                      0.03           1.16            1.19
Part B                                                      0.02           0.60           0.62
3. Project Implementation
Part A                                                      0.08           0.02           0.10
Part B                                                      0.08           0.02           0.10
Total Baseline Cost                                         0.41           3.20           3.61
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00            0.28           0.28
Price Contingencies                                      0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs                    0.41           3.48           3.89
Total Financing Required               0.41           3.48           3.89
Note: figures may not sum due to rounding
Table 3 b  Project Cost b Catego
Goods
Part A                                                      0.07           0.14           0.21
Part B                                                      0.03           0.06           0.09
Works                                                       0.00           0.00           0.00
Services
Part A                                                      0.29           1.78           2.07
Part B                                                      0.14           0.89           1.03
Training
Part A                                                      0.07           0.15           0.22
Part B                                                      0.03           0.08           0.11
Recurrent costs
Part A                                                      0.08           0.00           0.75
Part B                                                      0.08           0.00           0.75
Total Project Costs                    0.79           3.10           3.89
Total Financing Required               0.79           3.10           3.89
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding



Page 28
Annex 4: Terms of Reference for Selected Assignments
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
IMPLEMENTATION OF A PUBLIC INFORMATION CAMPAIGN
Labor and Social Protection
Terms of Reference
Background
The Government of Bosnia-Herzegovina (BH) is embarking on an adjustment effort that aims to improve its
ability respond to the employment and social protection needs of its citizens. The authorities have recognized
the need for fundamental reform in the social protection field, particularly in the area of labor reform
(unemployment is between 30 and 40 percent), pensions, social assistance and veterans' benefits. The
Government recognizes that employment is the key social protection strategy for the population. It also
recognizes that with current resource constraints other social protection programs must ensure that the needs of
the poorest segments of the population are met. The reform process is in its initial stages. There are some
difficult trade-offs and decisions to be made. Current social protection programs are beyond the administrative
and financial capacity of Government. In many cases the process of identifying priorities has not been
communicated effectively to the general public, nor even to parliament and other ministries.
Media have played and continue to play an important role in BH, primarily driven by political forces. Yet
currently there is no identified Government body in either Entity responsible for communicating the nature and
objectives of labor market and social protection reforms to the public at large. There is also a lack of media fora
which effectively cover the entire country. This undermines public confidence in policy makers, and can
contribute to a backlash against the reform efforts. There is a lack of understanding as to what the
Government's social policy priorities are and a lack of understanding as to how and why certain decisions are
made. In many instances, media actors themselves are either not well aware of the reforms and reasons behind
them, or are driven by personal agendas. This leads to situations where incomplete or misleading information is
given to the public through various channels, and support for reforms undermined. The Government's ability to
effectively communicate the goals and trade-offs of reforms to the general population needs to be strengthened.
Within the social sector generally, it appears that there is a predominance of "round-tables" and "interview" type
information dissemination activities. This type of public information, although it can be effective, only reaches
a certain type of audience. For the average person it does not necessarily capture what the reform process means
to them. It also results in a "sectoral" rather than integrated approach to the understanding of the reform
process. "Round-tables" focus on one aspect of the reform without considering other related areas. More
"attractive" communication means need to be developed. Cooperation with other 3 sector organizations is also
an important resource in the development and promotion of the awareness campaign which needs to be
capitalized on. In addition to providing a new perspective on the issues, it is useful to focus on the long-term
significance of such social partnerships. Non-governmental organizations and associations can act as
transmitters of reforms, educate the public at large, monitor the results of the implementation of reforms, and
explain the meaning and implications of new approaches.
The key directions and messages of social policy reforms are:
* Employment will remain the key mechanism for protecting individual and household welfare;
* Economic restructuring will create new demands on the social safety net in the short term before positive
employment effects are felt in the medium term;



Page 29
* Even after these benefits begin to be felt, there will remain a core of people who are unable to support their
basic needs, for whom the public sector must provide protection; and
* Given limited public resources, achieving effective social protection for the poorest will involve difficult
trade-offs with other social programs (e.g., veterans' programs) which are politically difficult.
The public at large needs to be aware of the reform process, understanding the underlying reasons for the current
condition of the sector. With the massive unemployment and many of the current "rights" not being met,
unrealistic expectations have resulted in frustration in the population. Demonstrations have been held, from
pensioners lobbies, to displaced persons wanting to return, to youth "giving up", to unions calling strikes, to
veterans lobbying credit and employment organizations. Therefore the Public Information Campaign should be
aimed at delivering comprehensive, complete and credible information to all stakeholders in a timely fashion
through effective channels of communication. Ideally this will promote broad public support for the reform
program, and trust in the government agency carrying it out.
Objectives
The public information campaign is aimed at raising public awareness and understanding of, and support for, the
principles and objectives of the social protection and labor reform process. Based on an assessment of the
current public understanding and perception of the reform process, it will communicate the current situation and
constraints in the present system, and explain the need for, and objectives and likely outcomes of reforms to the
general public in BH. It will aim to create reasonable expectations of the reform process, and an atmosphere of
public transparency. The objectives must have some degree of flexibility, according to the nature and progress
of the reforms.
Scope of Work
With an identified local partner(s) (e.g., local advertising or public relations firms), it is expected that the
Contractor will suggest the best strategy to attain the objectives set above through a public information
campaign, following the necessary market research and analysis. The Contractor is responsible for the design
and implementation of the same. In addition, the Contractor will develop basic guidelines for future public
information campaigns within the relevant ministries. The assignment will require a work program which
makes adequate provision for dealing with separate media channels in the two Entities of BH.
Duties and Responsibilities
The duties and responsibilities of the Contractor be carried out in two stages and will include, but not be limited
to, the following:
Stage I
i. Develop and execute a public opinion research progran to further understand the public understanding and
perception of the social protection and labor market reformn process in BH. For both Entities, this will:
* provide an overview of the level of information about the reformn within different social groups;
* identify information gaps, stereotypes and expectations about the reform currently; and,
* identify key media that the public relies on for information of this nature in both Entity.
Methods may include public opinion surveys, focus groups, in-depth interviews, media monitoring and
analysis.
ii. Conduct a media review, identifying key media groups and personnel, and their target audiences,
interests/policy positions and primary information sources. This review will be conducted in consultation
with external relations personnel of the World Bank and of other international organizations operating in
BH who have done similar campaigns in the past. It will be to some extent be two reviews, as there are
also some distinct media organizations in the two Entities.
iii. Develop a plan for a comprehensive public information campaign and dissemination strategy with a



Page 30
detailed explanation of the proposed actions, media material to be developed, dissemination channels,
proposed timeline and costs by activity and medium. The key messages of the campaign on the reform
process and issues will be agreed in consultation with the Government and the World Bank prior to
detailed design work in Stage II. If there are differing public attitudes, policies etc. in each Entity, the
plan needs to address how these will be handled, and the extent to which this may necessitate different
campaigns or approaches.
Stage 11
iv. Design and produce information materials, which will address the information needs determined during
the research in a manner that is easily understood by and appealing to the public. This includes
formulation of precisely worded messages that clearly explain the key issues, and nature and benefits of
policies.
v. Implement the information campaign with continuous feedback from key stakeholders in order to gauge its
effectiveness and modify as required.
vi. Develop monitoring indicators for subsequent evaluation of the campaign, both from a public perception
point of view, as well as the relative impact of different communication channels.
vii. Develop guidelines for the Ministries for future information campaigns on social protection and labor,
including a brief summary of capacity needs to implement such campaigns.
Indicators of Performance
Measurable indicators of performance will include:
Stage I
i. A report outlining results on:
a) the general public understanding and perception of opinion of the social protection and labor market
reform process, including a description of the approach and methodology used, and an analysis of the
results, as well as an account of problems encountered. The report will also highlight any differences
between the Entities; and
b) the media review, including clearly identifying the key media stakeholders in BH interested in social
protection reform, and the main communication avenues identified;
ii. A comprehensive plan for the public information campaign with a detailed explanation of the proposed
actions, proposed timeline and costs, and clearly identified messages. This plan will detail any differences
in approach between the two Entities.
Stage II
iii. Production of at least 10 basic materials to be disseminated via local media. Subject to the findings of the
research, the following materials may be considered inter alia:
a) Materials for television and radio broadcasts in special programs, including the use of short "time
slots";
b) Popular pamphlets, information brochures, leaflets, fliers, posters, news adds, web page, etc.;
c) Information kits for distribution among central and national media;
d) A list of frequently asked questions and answers;
e) Public events; and
f)  Writing of local stories.
iv. Report on the process for implementing the campaign, including detailing the success and weakness of the
strategy, the problems encountered and how they were overcome. The report should highlight any specific
areas/issues which appeared during the implementation process, and any different approaches used in
different parts of the country. This report will also include copies of the materials developed, and clear
indications of where these materials appeared in BH.



Page 31
v. Guideline paper on indicators to be used for future evaluation of the effectiveness of the campaign, in
terms of changes in public response and improved communication channels.
vi. Development of guidelines for future Public Information Campaigns and summary of the capacity needs
within the relevant ministries for future campaigns of this type.
Liaison and Reporting Requirements
The Contractors will report to the Minister of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons in the
Federation, and to the Minister of Health and Social Protection and the Minister of Labor and Veterans Affairs
in Republika Srpska. They will work closely with government designated local counter-parts from each of the
Entities, as well as the local partner firm and local media identified during the assignment. Reports and copies
of all media material and reports will be submitted to the Government and the World Bank in one of the major
languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with English translations.
It is expected that the reviews and development of the work plan will be completed within the first two months
of the assignment. Subject to review of these documents by the ministries and the World Bank, and
incorporation of resulting comments, the Contractors are expected to develop the Public Information Campaign
materials, followed by implementation, evaluation of the campaign and design of the strategy document.
Contractor Qualifications
The contractor should have:
i.   Qualifications in media relations, journalism;
ii.  At least five years of operating experience in the development and implementation of multi-media public
information campaigns;
iii. Experience with public information campaigns related to government programs, especially in the social
sphere;
iv. Have the operational capacity to implement a wide range of public relations activities and adequate
contracting, financial and operational capacity, and where required to sub-contract certain aspects of
larger public relations contracts;
v.   Demonstrate a record of creative public relations campaigns. Also the recorded capability to manage
"crisis" public relations' situations and proven experience of managing such unexpected incidents such as
incorrect conveyance of information, misinformation, lack of information, difficult audience response, etc;
vi. Successfully worked in an international environment, including work with different languages, preferably
in Bosnia-Herzegovina and ECA transition countries.
vii. Excellent report-writing and human relations skills; and
viii. Fluency in English and/or one of the major languages of BH.
The local counterpart firm should have:
i.   Experience in the design and implementation of public information campaigns;
ii.  Excellent contacts with local media throughout BH;
iii. Experience in working with the international community;
iv. Exposure to social policy issues;
v.   Operational capacity to design and implement a wide range of public information campaigns; and
vi. Fluency in one of the major languages of BH.
Contract Arrangements
The assignment is expected to commence early 2001. All work must be completed and delivered within [4]
months of starting the assignment. The assignment will be financed from a Social Sector Technical Assistance
Credit (SOTAC) made available to Bosnia-Herzegovina by the World Bank.



Page 32
Each contract will cover travel costs to and from Bosnia-Herzegovina for the international Contractor, and in-
country travel, and translation services.
The Government will provide general support to the Contractor for access to the appropriate government bodies.
The Government will also provide office space and office support to the Contractor throughout the assignment.
The ETF PIU in RS and PIU in FBH will be the primary national implementation agency for all contract-related
matters. The primary contacts within the ministries would be the Assistant Ministers responsible for [.... ]. The
World Bank Program Team Leader is Mr. Philip O'Keefe of the Budapest office, and liaison in BH will be with
Kendra Gregson in the Sarajevo Resident Mission.



Page 33
ADVISORS ON FUNCTIONAL REVIEWS
Terms of Reference
Background
Bosnia and Herzegovina is embarking on an adjustment effort that aims to improve the government's ability to
develop institutional mechanisms which will most effectively deal with development and prioritization of social
protection issues, considering the needs of the emerging market economy and the changing role and functions of
the state. The authorities have recognized the need for fundamental reform in the social protection field,
particularly difficult by the devolution of many responsibilities in social assistance, labor, and veterans. There is
no mechanism for communication between the social sectors, or for communication of policies to the general
public. This results in a fragmented approach to basic planning and management in social protection. The
problems are likely to become more acute with the advent of privatization, when it can be expected that the
demand for social protection from the general public may increase significantly.
The Government is aware that the key to improving the performance of the public sector lies in enhancing
transparency, efficiency, coordination and accountability at all levels. To do this there is a need to closely
examine the roles and responsibilities of those involved in the social protection area. Currently these
responsibilities are divided across ministries, both sectorally and vertically. For example, in the Federation, the
ministry directly responsible for social assistance is also responsible for labor, refugees and displaced persons.
There is a separate ministry responsible for veteran's issues, and pensions' policy, although within the Ministry
of Labor, is developed (in an ad hoc manner) and implemented mainly under the leadership of extra-budgetary
pension funds. In most cases, there is considerable duplication of functions, either formally through separate
institutions for Bosniak and Croat areas, or informally through limited communication between different tiers of
management. The complex institutional arrangements are overlaid with Dayton-mandated delineation of roles
and responsibilities between the Federation, cantons and municipalities. In most cases, the result in the social
protection and social services fields is that there is a "weak center" which is responsible for overall policy
development, but lacks a revenue base and is not responsible for policy implementation.
In Republika Srpska, the social welfare ministry is also responsible for health, veterans affairs is connected with
the Ministry of Labor, and refugees and displaced persons form a separate ministry. Those in need of social
assistance may in some way be connected with all of these ministries. The issue of roles and responsibilities
between the center and the municipalities is made somewhat less complex by the absence of cantons and the
more diversified revenue base of the Entity, but the root issue of separation of policy development and
implementation is also relevant.
Objective of the Assignment
The objective of the assignment is to assist the Government in aligning the functions and structure of the public
sector to promote overall coherence in the social protection system, including through improved interaction with
NGOs and the general public. The current configuration of ministerial responsibilities needs to be reviewed in
close collaboration with local counterparts to ensure that it most effectively promotes the goals of protecting the
poor, whatever their social category. This is particularly the case in the Republika Srpska, where the health part
of the combined health/social welfare portfolio dominates the agenda of the ministry.
Based on this review, whatever is determined to be the appropriate configuration of responsibilities between
different public agencies, mechanisms to promote better information sharing and coordination between different
agencies - and non-government actors - involved in social protection needs to be designed. This needs to
happen first at the policy level, so that there is clearer agreement on overall priorities in social protection. But it
is also needed at the operational level to minimize problems like "double dipping", and generally ensure that the
limited resources available benefit those in need, rather than being concentrated on certain groups who may not



Page 34
be the poorest.
The assignment is intended to: (i) identify what are the current functions of the state bodies involved in social
protection issues, and which of these functions are appropriate to the role of the state in a market-oriented
economy; (ii) what is the most appropriate organizational form that the government should assume to fulfil their
intended roles and functions, in order to effectively and appropriately prioritize social issues in the government;
and (iii) what communication mechanisms must be established to facilitate social protection planning and co-
ordination.
Duties and Responsibilities
Two advisors will be recruited, whose duties and responsibilities will include, but not be limited to, the
following:
i. An analysis of the functions presently being performed by the social protection bodies at the state, Entity,
cantonal and municipal level, (and whether these functions are policy-making, policy implementation, co-
ordination and performance review, regulatory, service delivery, support/logistical in nature, etc.)
ii. An analysis of the existing structural arrangements both sectorally and vertically between and within the
government bodies responsible for social protection (including the potential duplication of functions in e.g.
mixed cantons, between cantons and municipalities), and their current capacity;
iii. Development of a framework/methodology for conduct of the structural and functional reviews;
iv. Development of a decision matrix for deciding on the appropriate functions of each government body,
including which functions should continue and which should, for example, be abolished, or delegated to a
different tier of government;
v. Familiarizing government officials with the intent and purpose of the reviews (through lectures, workshops
and presentations to a cross-section of government officials
vi. Development of recommendations of possible realignment of roles and responsibilities in the social
protection sectors on the basis of findings from the application of the analytical framework, including
identification of capacity-building requirements; and
vii. Assisting the government to develop a program of work for the implementation of the recommendations in
an efficient manner.
Social Sector Ministries
The social sector ministries and public institutions to be included in the review are as follows:
Federation       Entity and Canton    *  Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced
Persons
*  Ministry of Veterans Affairs
Municipality        *  Offices responsible for social protection, labor, refugees and
displaced persons, veterans affairs
Other Public Funds  *  Pension Fund
and Bodies          *  Employment Insurance offices (3 "Entity" offices + any
cantonal insurance schemes)
*  Employment Insurance off-budget funds (specifically "State"
El office schemes)
*  Center for Social Work
Republika        Entity               *  Ministry of Veterans Affairs and Labor
Srpska                                *  Ministry of Health and Social Protection
*  Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons
Municipality        *  Offices responsible for social protection, labor, refugees and
DPs, and veterans affairs



Page 35
Other Public Funds  *  Pension and Invalid Fund
and Bodies         *  Employment Insurance (1 "Entity" office + regional offices)
*  Center for Social Work
*  Children's Fund
*  Social Program Fund (if established)
*  Social Solidarity Fund (if established)
Indicators of Performance
Measurable indicators of performance will include:
i. An inception report and a work program for the contract within a fortnight of taking up the assignment;
ii. An analytical report on (a) the functions presently being performed by the social protection bodies in Bosnia
and Herzegovina (b) the existing structural arrangements within these same bodies, and relating their
interconnecting roles and functions (c) the current capacity of these bodies, to be completed within two
months of taking up the assignment;
iii. A framework/methodology for the conduct of the structural and functional reviews;
iv. A decision matrix for deciding which functions should be performed by which body, and which should be,
for example, abolished, delegated to a different tier of government, or outsourced;
v. Number of government officials briefed, and number of workshops/training session held;
vi. Completion of the decision matrix, including identification of capacity-building requirements, and process
for the implementation of the recommendations, within 4 months of taking up the assignment;
vii. Acceptance of the report by the government, including process for implementation of the recommendations;
and
viii.A final report, within a month of the end of the assignment, documenting the entire exercise and the lessons
learnt.
Liaison and Reporting Requirements
The advisors will report to the Minister of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons, and the
Ministry of Veterans Affairs in the Federation, and to the Minister of Health and Social Protection, and the
Minister of Labor and Veterans Affairs in Republika Srpska. They will work closely with government
designated local counter-parts from each of the Entities. Reports will be submitted to the Government and the
World Bank in one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with English translations.
Consultant Qualifications
The advisors should each have:
i. A degree in public administration, social policy, or similarly relevant discipline;
ii. At least five years of operating experience in conducting such reviews and implementing the
recommendations arising from such reviews;
iii. Successfully worked in an international environment, preferably in Bosnia-Herzegovina, or other ECA
transition countries; and
iv. Excellent report-writing and human relations skills.
Contract Arrangements
The assignment is expected to begin in early 2001. Each contract will be for about 5 months, over an 8 month
time period, and will be financed from a Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) made available to
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Pending review of the work plan and analytical report it is expected that the consultants
will be in Bosnia-Herzegovina for the majority of this time period, first to complete the work plan and analytical
report, to carry out the review based on the decision matrix, and finally to share the report with the Government
and develop the implementation plan.



Page 36
Each contract will cover costs of travel to and from BH, in-country travel, and translation services.
The Government will provide general support to the consultants for access to the appropriate government
bodies, and will cover the cost of training provided by the Advisors to government officials and other
government representatives. The Government will also provide office space and office support to the advisors
throughout the assignment. The Government will be responsible for sharing the report both within the
government and with other appropriate government and international agencies, for consideration within their
own plan of activities.
The ETF PIU in the RS and PIU in FBH will be the primary national implementation agency for all contract-
related matters. The World Bank Program Team Leader is Mr. Philip O'Keefe of the Budapest office, and
liaison in BH will be with Kendra Gregson in the Sarajevo Resident Mission.



Page 37
EMPLOYMENT INSTITUTES SPECIAL REVIEW
Terms of Reference
Background
Bosnia and Herzegovina is embarking on an adjustment effort that aims to improve the government's ability to
develop institutional mechanisms which will most effectively deal with the development and prioritization of
social protection issues, considering the needs of the emerging market economy and the changing role and
functions of the state. The govemment is aware that the key to improving the performance of the public sector
lies in enhancing transparency, efficiency and accountability at all levels. This credit, in part, supports the
development of transparent and accountable services for the unemployed.
While it is difficult to get robust estimates on unemployment, registered unemployment in 1998 was
approximately 250,000 in the Federation (or almost 30 percent of the estimated labor force) and 143,000 in
Republika Srpska (around 27 percent of the estimated labor force). This level is expected to increase once
workers on waiting lists are included, therefore raising the official rate of unemployment to 37 percent in the
Federation and 36 percent in the Republika Srpska.
Both Entities have programs for payment of unemployment benefits and provision of active labor programs
(e.g., training and retraining; short term wage subsidies). In addition, contributions are meant to be paid for the
registered unemployed for health insurance in both Entities, and also for pension insurance in Republika Srpska.
These are administered by Employment Institutes in the two Entities (with separate Bosniak and Croat
Employment Institutes in the Federation). Within each of these Institutes there are branch offices responsible
for the registration of unemployed, facilitating job creation activities, and provision of cash-benefits. These
branch offices are located in the municipalities in all systems, plus at the cantonal level in the Bosniak area, and
at a regional level in the Republika Srpska.
The Institutes programs are financed from payroll taxes. In Republika Srpska, the payroll tax is 1 percent of the
payroll (split between employer and employee). In the Federation, there is a total of 3 percent, with 2 percent
from employee and 1 percent from employer (though this is proposed to be cut in half). With the limited
financing base and high registered unemployment, Employment Institutes are severely constrained in being able
to meet their legal obligations for benefit payments and active programs. This is exacerbated by the high
replacement rates on benefits (e.g., 60 percent of last salary in Republika Srpska, and 30-60 percent of average
wage proposed in the Federation under current draft law). The result is that only a very small share (estimated at
well under 5 percent) of the registered unemployed receive unemployment benefits. Many appear to register
only in order to prove their status for the purposes of applying for social assistance, and/or to receive continued
health insurance or pension insurance coverage.
In the Federation the institutional arrangements are complicated by the continued existence of one Employment
Institute, known as the State Institute, which is the successor of the Institute from the former Yugoslavia. This
now serves only the Bosniak areas of the Federation. There is also a Federation Employment Institute that
claims to serve the Bosniak areas, and now receives the payroll transfers intended for public employment
programs. This latter Institute is technically illegal. It has led to a situation where around 2 million KM per
month is paid into a payment bureau account with little or no accountability on how the money is spent. It is
unclear whether the State Institute's accounts and assets are now subsumed into the Federation Employment
Institute. In addition, the draft Employment Law allows each canton to form its own Employment Institute
instead of being part of an Entity wide system. Finally within the Institute which has been inherited from the
former Yugoslavia a system for supporting temporary employment has been developed, which essentially
provides subsidies to firms, yet it is a fee based service. The funds gained purportedly support employment
creation, but the exact use and flow of the resources is not clear.



Page 38
Objective of the Assignment
The objective of this assignment is to conduct an independent audit of the financial position and special review
of the operations of the Employment Institutes. The consultants will evaluate the financial position and balance
sheet of the Employment Institutes as of 31 December 2000, to provide assurance that assets/liabilities exist.
They will also conduct a special review of the operations of the Employment Institutes and the relationships
between them, including an examination of the cash-benefit schemes, employment creation activities, and the
internal control mechanisms.
Scope of Activities
Audit of Financial Position at 31 December 2000
The consultants will audit the financial position or balance sheet at 31 December 2000, for the four Employment
Institutes in BH, to comply with the International Accounting Standards. The audit will comply with
International Standards of Auditing, , and will include an examination of the level of arrears, and examine the
collection and application of any funds within the Employment Institutes. Detailed notes will accompany the
balance sheet.
Special Review
The Special Review will focus on program activities of the Institutes. This will include:
I) an examination of the employment creation schemes. This will include a review of how the financing for
these programs is spent, the number of beneficiaries and/or companies served, and the number of
beneficiaries that are employed as a result. Particular attention will be paid to the temporary employment
program and to the resulting employment generation program managed by the State Agency.
2) an examination of the levels of cash benefits paid in relation to the number of people registered, and the
number of people eligible for such benefits
3) an examination of the operational and financial relationship between the different levels within each
Institutes, as well as any relationship between the different Institutes.
4) examination of the budgetary provisions and compliance with relevant regulations and guidelines.
5) an examination of the internal control mechanisms at the four central Institutes and at the corresponding
cantonal/regional and/or municipal levels. The roles and responsibilities conceming the financial
management of resources will be examined and reported on.
"Employment Institutes" include all which are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the two serving the
Bosniak area of the country, the one serving the Croat area of the country, and the one in Republika Srpska. In
addition, the auditors will examine branch offices of the Institutes. The Employment Law of the former
Yugoslavia which was applied by degree during the war is the basis of the establishment of the both the "Croat"
and "State" Employment Institutes. The Federation Institute was created by instruction by the Prime Minister in
1999. The Employment Institute in the RS is based on the law on Employment and the Realization of the Rights
of Unemployed Persons passed in 1998. These laws are currently being considered for amendments, and
therefore the consultant may need to examine relevant laws or amendments other than those named here in
order to draw conclusions as to whether the financing is being spent according to the legal framework.



Page 39
Outputs
The duties and responsibilities of the Contractor will include, but not be limited, to the following:
Audit
* an audited financial position as of 31 December 2000, with notes supporting each item.
* a brief report on all balance sheet items, highlighting any identified concerns and unsolved issues. This
report should include all adjustments made, a listing of all fixed assets, a summary of benefits payable (both
actual and potential);
* a report on the situation with regards to debts and arrears; a statement of the assets held that will clarify the
existing confusion over the state of the finances of the Institutes and their administration, including legality
of the ownership of the assets.
Special review
* a report on the criteria for access and allocation of funds and determination of fee schedule and flow of
funds, for job creation activities and temporary employment services, including a discussion of any
weaknesses and reform recommendations;
* a report on the levels of cash benefits paid in relation to the number of people registered, and the number of
people eligible for such benefits. This should also include a report on the system of approving the
postponement of paying contributions, the freezing of arrears and the accountability at the "local" and
"central" levels of the Employment Institutes;
* a report on the operational and financial relationship between the different levels within each Institutes, as
well as any relationship between the different Institutes. This should include a statement on the accounts
held at the "local" and "central" levels, including the relationships between these levels and with the other
Employment Institutes;
* a report on the verification that the expenditures are in accordance with the budgetary provisions and in
compliance with relevant regulations and guidelines, with specific examination of the cash benefits and
other benefits paid to the client; and
* a report on the internal control structure for the institutions and adequacy of the same, including a discussion
of the weaknesses in the internal control systems leading to recommendations for its improvement;
Liaison and Reporting Requirements
The consultants will work with the Employment Institutes, and will report to the Minister of Labor, Social
Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons in the Federation, and to the Ministry of Veterans Affairs and Labor in
Republika Srpska. All reports will be provided to the Ministries, as noted above, and the SOSAC Team Leader
in English and one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Financial statements will be issued in
local currency.
Contractor Qualifications
The Contractor should be:
i. A member of an international accounting and auditing firm which is a member of the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC);
ii. Qualified auditors with at least 5 years of operational experience in auditing social protection funds;
iii. Knowledgeable of World Bank Audit guidelines;
iv. Successfully worked in an international environment, preferably in Bosnia-Herzegovina, or other ECA
transition country; and
v. Excellent report writing and human relations skills.



Page 40
Contract Arrangements
The audit and special review is expected to begin in December 2000 (for the physical verification of assets) and
the final report to be delivered by June 2001. The contract will be financed from a Social Sector Technical
Assistance Credit (SOTAC) made available to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Each contract will cover costs of travel
to and from Bosnia and Herzegovina, in-country travel and translation services.
The government will provide general support to the consultants for access to the appropriate government bodies
and accounts. The government will also provide the consultants with office space and general office support
during the assignment.
The ETF PIU in RS and the PIU in FBH will be the primary national implementation agencies for all contract
related matters. The World Bank Program Team Leader is Mr. Philip O'Keefe of the Budapest office, and
liaison in BH will be with Kendra Gregson in the Sarajevo Resident Mission.



Page 41
ADVISORS ON DISABILITY
Terms of Reference
Background
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) is embarking on an adjustment effort that aims to improve the government's
ability to develop mechanisms which will more effectively deal with development and prioritization of social
protection issues, considering the needs of the emerging market economy and the changing role and functions of
the state. The authorities have recognized the need for fundamental reform in the social protection field,
particularly difficult by the devolution of many responsibilities in social assistance, labor, and veterans. There is
little coordination between social sector programs. This results in a fragmented approach to basic planning and
management in social protection. The problems are likely to become more acute with the advent of privatization,
when it can be expected that the demand for social protection from the general public may increase significantly.
Disability programs are a key area of social protection policy (see Attachment for more details). Given the
poverty profile in neighboring countries - where the disabled have high poverty rates - there is an argument to
address disability issues as a priority in order to improve the impact of the social safety net on the poorest.
However, to date it has been difficult to get a comprehensive view of the coverage and impact of disability
programs, as it is currently unclear which beneficiaries have entitlements to other benefits, and hence to
calculate the aggregate level of social transfers which different individuals receive. The current system of
disability benefits is characterized by overly complex categorization of beneficiaries, which results in
beneficiaries whose ability to work is not impaired by international standards, and consequently less funds being
available for those with serious disabilities. Finally, there appears to be a significant possibility of duplicative
benefits going to one and the same person, although based on different criteria, at the same time as it being
unclear how many individuals who are disabled do not receive assistance.
Approximately 27 million KM is spent every month on disability benefits in BH, serving approximately 205,000
people. However, the range of benefits across the programs can vary from 0 KM, in cases where the program
can not afford to pay anything, to over 200 KM per person. Although it can be argued that there should be
differences in levels of payment between different disability programs, for example an invalid insurance fund
and a social assistance program, in BH the scope of differences is enormous.
There are legitimately more categories of disabled in BH than in other countries, however each of these groups
appears to be dealt with differently in each of the Entities and funds. Currently disability benefits are available
within 8 different global programs in BH. However, when looking at the actual implementation, disability
programs fall within 1 1 different administrative structures and 21 different implementation structures. In the
Federation Entity (FBH), disability benefits may be obtained within the Pension and Invalid Fund, veteran's
benefits program, social assistance program, and program for civil victims of war. Although the social assistance
and civil victims of war programs are outlined within one legal framework (together with protection of families
with children), responsibility for implementation rests with each of the ten cantons. The four programs cuts
across two ministries, with the veteran's program being the responsibility of the Ministry of Veteran's Affairs,
and the rest being with the Ministry of Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons (DPs). In addition the
Pension and Invalid Fund is structured in two distinct parts, between the Sarajevo and the Mostar Funds. The
same division is in place for veterans' benefits in the Federation, with the further complication of two legal
franeworks. In the Republika Srpska (RS) the programs are the same, but the division of ministerial
responsibilities are somewhat simpler with social assistance programs being in the Ministry of Health and Social
Protection and the others being with the Ministry of Veteran's Affairs and Labor. There is no cantonal structure
within the Entity.



Page 42
Under an existing adjustment operation (SOSACI), the Governments of both Entities have agreed to consolidate
information on existing disability programs, with a view to developing a more coherent disability policies and
programs. Improvements in the disability system could then be supported under the policy agenda of the
planned SOSACII (planned for 2001 or 2002).
Objective of the Assignment
The objective of this assignment is to develop with local counterparts proposals for reform of disability
programs in BH which would increase their impact on the most disabled, and promote greater coordination and
efficiency in program delivery. The outcome of this assignment will be an analysis of how each system
currently operates and their relationship to each other, development of reform options on programs and
administration, and an action plan for improving disability categorization and the administrative process.
Duties and Responsibilities
The team will:
i. Review the policy approach under different disability programs, in particular the degree of disability for
which benefits are available under each program;
ii. Review financing sources, relative benefit levels and structures across different disability programs;
iii. Assess the criteria utilized for assessing disability in each of the systems;
iv. Review the existing organization and administration of disability categorization from both the beneficiary
and administrator perspective;
v. Review the processes which a potential beneficiary must pass to receive a benefit;
vi. Review options based on international best practice for improving the disability categorization process and
criteria, and provide recommendations based on the same;
vii. Provide recommendations for improved administration and relationship between the disability programs,
including information exchange;
viii.Disseminate the findings and recommendations of the assignment to local counterparts; and
ix. Develop and implementation plan/strategy with local counterparts for improving categorization.
Indicators of Performance
Measurable indicators of performance will include:
i. A comparative analysis of coverage under different programs, benefit levels/structures, and financing
sources;
ii. A comparative analysis of the current disability categorization system, and implementation procedures;
iii. A description of the current organizational and administrative systems in place for each program;
iv. A description of the current process that a potential beneficiary must engage in to become eligible for a
disability benefit and then receive it;
v. Reform options, drawing on the current BH environment and practices as well as on international best
practice in disability categorization;
vi. Recommendations, including alternative criteria, administrative systems, and communication linkages
between the systems. This would include identifying key legislative and administrative amendments that
would be required to implement different reform options;
vii. To conduct two cross-program workshops, one in each Entity, to discuss the findings and to further develop
recommendations on next steps with local counterparts; and
viii.Develop an implementation plan based on the recommendations.



Page 43
Social Sector Ministries
The social sector ministries and public institutions to be included in the assignment are as follows:
*  FBH Ministry of Social Policy, Refugees and DPs
*  RS Ministry of Health and Social Protection
*  Pension and Invalid Fund - Sarajevo
*  Pension and Invalid Fund - Mostar
*  Pension and Invalid Fund - Republika Srpska
*  FBH Ministry of Veterans
*  Veterans' Administration - Sarajevo
*  Veterans' Administration - Mostar
*  RS Ministry of Labor and Veterans' Affairs.
In addition it is expected that the Consultant will review at least three cantonal systems for social assistance and
civilian victims of war in the FBH, and four municipality systems for social assistance in the RS. It is also
expected that the consultant will have contact with the various medical commissions involved in the disability
assessment process.
Liaison and Reporting Requirements
The advisors will report to the Minister of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons, and the
Ministry of Veterans Affairs in the Federation, and to the Minister of Health and Social Protection, and the
Minister of Labor and Veterans Affairs in Republika Srpska. They will work closely with Government-
designated local counter-parts from each of the Entities.
Pending review of the draft report by the relevant Ministries and World Bank SOSAC team leader, a workshop
will be organized to discuss the findings of the assignment, and to develop recommendations for next steps with
local counterparts. The final report will be submitted to the Ministries and the World Bank in one of the major
languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and English subsequent to the workshop.
Consultant Qualifications
The advisors should each have:
i. A degree in social policy, sociology, economics, social security, or similarly relevant discipline;
ii. At least five years of operating experience in conducting assessments of disability issues and implementing
the recommendations arising from such reviews;
iii. Successfully worked in an international environment, preferably in Bosnia-Herzegovina, or other ECA
transition countries; and
iv. Excellent report-writing and human relations skills.
Contract Arrangements
The assignment is expected to begin in early 2001. It is anticipated that the work would be undertaken by a team
of two consultants, with each contract will be for about 4 months in total, over an 8 month time period, and will
be financed from a Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) made available to Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Each contract will cover costs of travel to and from BH, in-country travel, and translation services.
The Government will provide general support to the consultants for access to the appropriate Government
bodies, and will cover the cost of training provided by the Advisors to government officials and other



Page 44
govemment representatives. The Govemment will also provide office space and office support to the advisors
throughout the assignment. The Government will be responsible for sharing the report both within the
govemment and with other appropriate govemment and international agencies, for consideration within their
own plan of activities.
The ETF PIU in RS and PIU in FBH will be the primary national implementation agency for all contract related
matters. The World Bank Program Team Leader is Mr. Philip O'Keefe of the Budapest office, and liaison in BH
will be with Kendra Gregson in the Sarajevo Resident Mission.



Page 45
Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTAT1ON PEROD
FY2001                 FY02         l          FY03
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs               0.7                   1.6                    1.4
Recurrent Costs                0.0                   0.1                   0.0
Total Project Costs                0.7                   1.7                   1.4
Total Financing                    0.7                   1.7                   1.4
Financing
IDA                            0.7                   1.6                   1.3
Govemment                      0.0                   0.1                   0.1
Co-financiers                   -                     -                     -
Total Project Financing        0.7                   1.7                   1.4



Page 46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Procurement
The total value of the Project is US$3.88 million, of which IDA Credit will finance US$3.55 million and
the Government US$0.33 million. The Project will be implemented by PIUs in each Entity which have been
implementing Bank projects effectively for several years. The RS ETF has been implementing the Local
Initiatives and Emergency Demobilization Projects. The present RS ETF director will oversee the PIU director
of the new project as well, with existing procurement staff used for SOTAC. In the Federation, the PIU for the
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) will carry out project management for SOTAC using
existing staff. The PIU is under the Labor and Social Policy Ministry. Both PIUs have project management and
procurement capacity in place, and project specific assessments have been carried out. The procurement activity
in this project is mainly consultancy and training, although there will also be NGO service contracts. The total
value of goods to be procured under the project is about US$0.3 million, mainly related to the CSW client
register rollout. The total value of foreign and local consulting services and training to be procured is about
US$3.43 million. Recurrent costs account for US$150,000. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be
included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-
financed goods and consultants services. Sample contracts for the Counseling, Employment and Training Fund
(CETF) will also be included in the PIM.
All IDA-financed procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consulting services and training shall be procured
in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",
published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. A capacity
assessment of the Implementing agencies was carried out as part of the PELRP preparation, and this was
augmented by SOTAC-specific assessment. Based on the procurement risk assessment, an action plan will be
finalized and included in the PIM.
Procurement methods (Table A)
(a) Goods and Equipment (US$ 0.3 million)
Goods to be financed under the Credit include: office equipment, computers, and off-the-shelf software. The
following procurement procedures would apply:
*  International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods and equipment which are estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 per contract may be procured using ICB procedures;
*  International Shopping (IS). Goods and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 per contract may
be procured by IS procedures, up to an aggregate of US$200,000. International Shopping procedures will
be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
*  National Shopping (NS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$ 100,000.
(b) Consultant Services and training (US$ 3.4 million)
The total estimated cost of consultant services and training (including study tours and workshops) is US$3.43
million. Consulting services and training will be awarded following the World Bank "Guidelines for Selection



Page 47
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, as revised in September 1997
and January 1999. Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of related skills and services, in order to
make them attractive to potential bidders and increase competition, as well as reducing the number of contracts
to be managed by the PIUs. The following procurement methods will be used:
* Quality and Cost-based selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services and training
contracts over US$100,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.8 million. To the extent
possible, this will be packaged in larger firm bids on an inter-Entity basis, to minimize contract management
demands on the PIUs, and improve coordination between different tasks;
* UNAgencies (UN) will be used for the assignment on labor relations framework technical assistance, using
the International Labor Organization, procured in accordance with Bank guidelines up to a total of US$0.3
million;
* Least-cost selection (LCS) procedures will be used for auditing services contracts less than or equal to $0.05
million up to an aggregate of US$ 0.05 million;
* Consultant qualification selection (CQ) procedures will be used for consultant services contracts up to
US$50,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate of US$0.6 million;
* Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedure will be used for consultancy services on social protection
expenditure work, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million;
a Individual consultant selection will be used for small assignments throughout the life of the project,
including where local consultants are needed for limited duration assignments. The estimated cost of total
contracts using this method is US$0.18 million; and
* Training services will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. The total value of training and
study tours under the project would be US$300,000.
With respect to the procurement arrangements for the proposed NGO innovation activities, these will be
based on NGO proposals submitted in response to a general announcement requesting proposals on small value
contracts (up to $50,000 equivalent). Successful submissions would require local CSW endorsement and be
assessed according to criteria outlined in the PIM. Based on a short list of proposals and the PIM criteria, the
NGO with the most effective proposal would be financed for the proposed activity under CQ selection.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Procurement of goods and services will be carried out according to the agreed procurement plan
described in Table D and will be subject to the reviews noted in Table B of this Annex. The Bank's prior review
of procurement will cover: (a) all ICB and DC packages; (b) the first five IS and NS packages; (c) terms of
reference for all consulting assignments; (d) all direct contracting; and (e) all consulting contracts with
individual consultants. With respect to prior review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix
I of the Guidelines shall apply. Post review would be for one in five contracts.
Termns of reference for all consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior Bank
review. Request for Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation
reports and recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for individual
consultants above $50,000 and firms above $100,000. All documents and recommendations involving
sole source contracting will be subject to Bank prior review.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the
right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).



Page 48
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00           0.0
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)         (3.0)
2. Goods                              0.00        0.00                     0.00           0.30
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.30)      (0.00)         (0.30)
Total                    ~~~~~       ~~~0.00  0.00  2.0
3. Seirvices                          0.00.0343                            0.00           3.43
(0.00)      (0.00)       (3. 15)     (0.00)         (3. 15)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00         0.00       0-. 154       0.00           0.15
(0.00)      (0.00)       (O. I O)    (0.00)         (O. I O)
Total                              0.00        0.00         2.08        0.00           3.88
(0.00)      (0.00)      (1.85)       (0.00)         (3.55)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Notes:
"' N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
2 Goods procured by IS and NS.
31 Includes UN Agencies, QCBS, QBS, LCS, CQ, Individual, and training.
4/ Recurrent costs.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (incl. training)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS        QBS        SFB        LCS       CQ      Other  N.B.F
A. Firms              1.80         0.20      0.00        0.05     0.60      0.68     0.00      3.33
(1.70)      (0.20)    (0.00)      (0.05)    (0.60)    (0.50)  (0.00      (3.05)
B. Individuals        0.00         0.00      0.00        0.00     0.10      0.00     0.00      0.10
(0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.10)   (0.00)  (0.00       (0.10)
Total    1.80         0.20      0.00        0.05      0.70     0.68     0.00       3.43
(1.70)      (0.20)    (0.00)      (0.05)   (0.70)    (0.50)  (0.00       (3.15)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
Notes: t 
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants



Page 49
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Goods
>100,000                 ICB           (a) all ICB and DC
50,000-100,000             IS          packages; and (b) the first
<50,000                  NS           five IS and NS packages.
2. Services/consultants      >100,000               QCBS                  All
> 100,000               QBS                 All
<50,000                LCS              TOR for all
<50,000               Other               TOR
<50,000                                    All
3. Recurrent costs             All                                        TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  3.73
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: As procurement staff are based in BH,
there could be ongoing support given on procurement matters whenever needed by project staff.
Formally, there would be one supervision mission every four-six month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits). This would most likely be done in parallel with
PELRP supervisions.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Because an acceptable disbursement mechanism based on PMRs is not in place, disbursement will be made
using the Bank's traditional disbursement method based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) during the
project's first year. The PlUs' financial management capacity will be reviewed after one year and if it is
considered that they have gained sufficient experience with the FMS and reporting using PMRs, they may
consider switching to PMR-based disbursement.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully documented and
supported by bank statements and reconciliation statements. Disbursements will be made against SOEs for
contracts for: goods less than equivalent US$50,000, excluding the first five contracts which shall be subject to
the Bank's prior review; contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
contracts for employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,0000 equivalent; and all incremental
operating expenditures. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to Bank
supervision missions, and will be retained by the PIUs for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which disbursement was made.



Page 50
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts for the Federation and RS PIUs,
respectively. The authorized allocation will be US$370,000 for the Federation and US$130,000 for the
RS. Upon effectiveness, the Borrower may send a withdrawal application for US$185,000 (Federation)
and US$65,000 (RS) representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation. When the amount withdrawn from
Credit Account and the outstanding Special Commitment amount to SDR 550,000 (Federation) and SDR
200,000 (RS), the Borrower may withdraw the remaining balance of US$185,000 (Federation) and
US$65,000 (RS). The amount of the Special Accounts when disbursing under PMRs is US$370,000 for the
Federation and US$130,000 for RS.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Goods                                                 100% of foreign expenditures,
Part A:                                0.15              100% of local expenditures (ex-
Part B:                                0.15             factory cost), and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Consultancy and Services4
Part A.                                 1.90
Part B                                  1.00                       95%
3. Training
Part A                                 0.15                        70%
Part B                                 0.08
4. Recurrent costs                                       90% until June 30,
Part A                                 0.06              2001; 75% until June 30,
Part B                                 0.06              2002; 60% until June 30,
2003.
Total Credit Proceeds                  3.55
Total                                  3.55
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding
4 Note: Consultancy and services includes audits for SOSAc and SOTAC.



Page 51
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
Procurement Plan
1                    2            3              4               5                                       6. Estimated dates
Description             Type5    Number of    Estimated    Procurement             Prqual/SL    (BD/RFP)    Bid                  Contract signing   Contract
eto6        1-nisto      .Preparation  1. GPN                               Completion
slices/items/      cost          Method        GXnSPNLpcal                 Announcement
sub-           (US$32. Opening                                         2. Invitation ISPN/
sub-      ~~(US$                        3.Eval &Recom
packages       million)                                                   Local
3. Opening
4. Eval & Recomi
Award
1. Technical Assistance
TA for reform of social           CS             I            0.800         QCBS                        Dec. 2000    GPN: Oct 2000   June 2001             June 2003
assistance and disability                                                                                              SPN: Jan, 2001
programs.                                                                                                                 Apr, 2001
May, 2001
TA for labor relations            CS             1            0.300       UN agencies                    Feb. 2001    GPN: Oct 2000        March 2001       June 2002
framework                                                                    (ILO)
Public information campaign        CS            1            0.400          QCBS                        July 2000    GPN: Oct 2000   July 2001             Sept 2002
for social protection                                                                                                  SPN: Mar, 2001
May, 2001
June, 2001
TA for social protection           CS            1            0.200           QBS                        Jan. 2001       Assignment    Mar. 2001            Sept. 2002
expenditure strategy                                     l                                                             starts Mar, 2001
TA for social statistics           CS           2             0.100        Individual                    June 2001    GPN: Oct 2000   Sept. 2001            April 2002
5 Indicate code: CW for civil works, S&I for Supply and Install; G for goods; TK for tum-key; SC for specialized services, CS for Consulting Services, TA for Technical Assistants, TR for training
6 Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for minor civil works), FA (for Force Account), QBCS (for Quality and Cost based selection of consultant firms); QBS (for Quality Based selection of
consultant firms), FXB (for Fixed Budged selection of consultant firms), LCS (for Least cost selection of consultant firms); CM (for commercial practices for selection of consultants by private sector
beneficiaries); SS (for sole-sourcing of firms or individuals), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget)



Page 52
Assignments
commence
Sept. 2001
TA for functional review      CS          1          0.250        QCBS                     July 2000   GPN: Oct 2000  July 2001        September
SPN: Feb, 2001                    2002
May, 2001
June,2001
Special reviews for          CS           1          0.350        QCBS                      August    GPN: Oct 2000   Sept 2001        Mar 2002
Employment Institutes                                                                        2000      SPN: Feb 2001
May, 2001
June, 2001
Audit of SOSAC and SOTAC      CS          1           0.05         LCS                                 GPN: Oct 2000  Jan. 2001        July 2003
accounts
TA for CSW client database    CS          2           0.08       Individual                  N/A       GPN: Oct 2000  Mar. 2001        Dec. 2001
(IT)
TA for training of CSW staff  TR          6          0.150          CQ                       N/A       GPN: Oct 2000  Initiate Apr.    Mar. 2002
in client database                                                                                                    2001
Study tours                  TR         10-12        0.150          CQ                       N/A      GPN: Oct 2000  Initiate Apr.     Dec. 2002
Feb, 2001 -    001
2.83        _ 
2. Services delivery
*NGO innovation sub-        CS          12         0.600          CQ                       N/A      GPN: Oct 2000.    June 2001      June 2003
Implement over
component                                                                                          life of project,
commencing
July  2001......7
7~~                            0.600           2



Page 53
3. Goods and Equipment
*  Computer equipment and    Goods          2           0.200          IS                                   GPN: Oct 2000      July 2001      December
networking for CSW                                                                                        Aug 2001                          2001
database                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oct. 2001
database
*  Equipment and software    Goods          2           0.100          NS
for other social protection
0.300
4.Incremental recurrent
Costs
Operating costs for the       Other                     0.150                                 N/A          Life of project   Nov 2000       June 2003
Implementing Agencies
0.150
Indicate
total"
3.88
7To match Procurement Table



Page 54
Annex 6B: Review of Financial Management Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
By Siew Chai Ting
General
Review of the Financial Management Systems were undertaken between July and September 2000, to:
(a) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; (b) review the presence of
the necessary elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project
accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for
strengthening the financial management system to achieve Project Management Report (PMR)-based
disbursement that would assist the project to move towards LACI. (A report on the Review of Financial
Management System is included in the project files and in the Project Implementation Plan).
Project Management and Coordination
The proposed Credit is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika Srpska and
the other in Federation of BH). The proposed Credit is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity
(one in Republika Srpska and the other in Federation of BH). The IDA Credit will be lent to the
Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will on-lend the proceeds of the credit to the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH) and Republika Srpska (RS). The counterpart agencies for the credit would
be Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons in FBH, and Ministries of Veterans'
Affairs, War Casualties, and Labor and Health/Social Welfare in RS. The inter-Entity Social Policy Task
Force would also act as an important policy discussion forum so that the views and concerns of the non-
government sector (local and international) are reflected in policy development. This would also promote
the large goal of increased policy harmonization between Entities. The existing PIUs in both Entities for
implementation of the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) - the Pilot Emergency Labor
Redeployment Project's PIU in the Federation and the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) in the
RS will be the implementing agencies for the Project. The PIU and ETF will be charged with managing
contracting and expenditure under the project and coordinating project activities. Each Entity will be
responsible for its own financial management of the project. Until the Federation PIU has been certified by
the Bank meeting the minimum financial management requirements, it is to sub-contract the financial
management services to Public Works and Employment Project's PIU (LORA) which has the necessary
capacity and skills to provide such services. LORA has been assessed by the Bank of meeting the minimum
financial requirements, during the preparation of the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project. As part
of the agreed financial management services, LORA will provide an accounting software, ongoing technical
support and financial expertise to the PELRP's PIU.
Staffing
Each Entity would have, at the least, one full time position for an accountant with sound credentials and
experience in accounting (acceptable to the World Bank) to make good judgements on the maintenance of
the books of accounts and on the production of financial information. The Finance Manager and the two
accountants in the ETF of RS are acceptable to the Bank. The Finance Manager of the LORA is acceptable
to the World Bank.



Page 55
Accounting and Internal Controls
The project accounting will comply with the International Accounting Standards. The local accounting
standards, which are based closely on International Accounting Standards, have been adopted by the RS
from January 1, 2000. Donor agencies are currently providing training to local accountants to familiarize
them with the new standards.
The ETF and LORA have extensive experience with World Bank's financed projects. Both LORA and ETF
have implemented several World Bank's financed projects. They have established key internal control
mechanisms on the application and use of funds. There are adequate segregation of duties in the LORA and
ETF.
Project Accounting System
LORA (for PIU) and ETF would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting.
LORA and ETF would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The
overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i) Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by LORA and ETF on double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized accounting
system.
(ii) Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including donors contributions), and
all utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not)
would be accounted in the books of accounts. This would include contributions made by donors.
Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account maintained by BH would also be
included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be
identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements
(iii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of the
project. This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance
for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project
would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project will be prepared. The Chart of Accounts
conforms to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project
documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB model). The
Chart of Accounts enables data to be captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of
project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement
categories; and (iv) funding donors.
(iv) Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v) Physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be
maintained for some high cost items, which account for a significant portion of project cost, and for
items for which data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have been identified
and indicated in the Financial Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during
implementation.
The LORA uses an in-house designed financial management system, which is specifically designed for the
World Bank's project and reporting under non-LACI requirements. This accounting software system,
which is based on Visual Basic Database, appears to be well developed by an external consultant a few
years ago and subsequently enhanced by LORA's MIS staff. It has the following modules - financial and
procurement. The financial modules include 4 sub-modules - Payments 1 a, Reports 1 a, Other Categories,



Page 56
and Reports by Other Categories. It appears that the payments are entered into the system based on the
disbursement categories. The reports sub-modules currently allows the LORA to print detail reports but not
the financial statements. These financial statements are prepared on Excel, based on the various reports
generated under Reports I a and Report by Other categories. The procurement module enables the LORA to
enter all necessary information on procurement matters. Presently LORA also maintain an integrated
database for local reporting requirements, hence all transactions are being recorded twice. Based on the
initial assessment, this accounting system will meet the Bank's minimum reporting requirement. However,
it is currently enhancing the system to incorporate planning and budgeting module and it cannot produce
PMRs yet. By October 31, 2000, the LORA will need to complete implementation of an accounting system
enabling them to prepare quarterly PMRs.
During the implementation of the LDP, the ETF implemented a computerized accounting system (Scala)
that complies with international accounting standards and meet the PMR-based FMS requirements. During
the financial management assessment of the ETF for the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, it
was agreed that the ETF would buy another Scala's license for the PELRP. With the purchase of the new
license, the ETF would be able to meet the bank's requirement for a sound accounting software. The new
system would need to comply with the local accounting requirement, especially the chart of account for the
public sector.
By October 31, 2000, the LORA (PIU) and ETF will need to complete implementation of an accounting
system enabling them to prepare quarterly PMRs. The system will be designed keeping in mind, inter alia,
an accounting and internal control system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner, all
financial transactions under the project. The accounting system will comply with internationally accepted
standards and will: (i) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the
project; (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities; and
(iii) provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis. The accounting system will be classified by component; it
will reflect the sources of funds and will be broken down into different types of expenditures for the project.
Further, it will provide information on the receipt and use of funds and will be able to produce financial
reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of
providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project. This is an
important element of the financial management system.
Accounting and Financial Flows
LORA/PIU and ETF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures
on all activities of the project. The financial flows for all activities in the SOTAC will be: (a) from the PIU
and ETF to NGOs for the NGO/CSW Innovation sub-component; (b) direct payment from Special Account
to consultancy firms for large contracts; and (c) payments from Special Account to consultants for small
contracts, predominantly foreign consultants. The PIU and ETF will need to document the accounting
transaction information flow for accounting purposes:
i) NGO Innovation Sub-component: These activities will be contracted to successful NGOs provided
at least three eligible firmslNGOs are invited to bid. The deliverables would be based on an agreed
schedule of events and payments to the providers based on agreed performance criteria, e.g., 25-35
percent at the start of the contract, and at least two more payments during the life of the assignment
and finally on the delivery of agreed monitored report. The CSW will verify the reports prior to
recommending payments to the providers.
ii) Technical assistance, training and client registries. The Credit will make direct payment from
Special Account to consultancy firms for large contracts and consultants for smaller consultancy
contracts. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts.
iii) Project Implementation. The credit will support some operating costs of the PIU and ETF in both
Entities. The financial flow for this component is very straight-forward, including payments of
salaries and associated costs to employees and appropriate authorities, and operational costs of the



Page 57
PIU and ETF payable to external suppliers.
Financial Reporting
Both Entities will independently maintain accounts for their part of the Project and will ensure appropriate
accounting of the funds provided. Each Entity will be responsible for designing appropriate PMRs and
preparing PMR on a quarterly basis, and will furnish the PMRs for such period to the Bank not later than
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period
following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements has been provided to the project staff. LACI
Implementation Handbook and Draft Project Financial Management Manual were provided to the PIU in
the RS and the Ministry of Education in the Federation. By February 15, 2002, the PIU and ETF will
submit the first PMRs to the Bank for the quarter ended December 31, 2001.
Financial Manual
The ETF in the RS and the LORA/PIU in the Federation have financial manuals for their respective
different projects and would require minor modification in order to meet the requirement. The financial
manuals will cover: (a) the financial management system proposed under the project, with special emphasis
on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role of the financial
management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required
for project management, the format for and content of project financial reporting; (d) the auditing
arrangements that will be used during project implementation, and (e) budgeting and planning. The
completion of the financial manual in each Entity will be carried out prior to effectiveness of the Project.
The LORA/PIU and ETF will complete draft financial manual acceptable to the Bank, by September 30,
2000.
Financial Risks
From the financial management perspective, the financial risks of the Social Sector Technical Assistance
Credit are limited for most of the funds. This is because the Credit would have several large consultancy
contracts, where financial flows are simply from Special Account to the consultancy firm. There would be
several smaller consultancy assignments, but predominantly with foreign consultants. However, for the
proposed NGO Innovation sub-component, the risk could be considered as substantial. Therefore the key
financial management risks include: (i) inadequate internal controls mechanism in PIU and ETF; (ii) delays
in preparation of project management reports; (iii) poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BH; (iv) the roles of the NGOs in the disbursement of innovation fund; (v) unsatisfactory
working relationship between PIU and LORA in the Federation leading to poor financial management
services; and (vi) public perceptions of corruption. These risks are considered as manageable due to the



Page 58
various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential
for adversely affecting project performance.
Internal control mechanisms by PIU and ETF have been established and documented and could require
proper implementation for the new project. This risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of the
financial manual prior to effectiveness. Financial manual will include the establishment of financial
policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of financial authorities, the implementation
of proper internal control procedures, and installing proper budgeting and planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of
the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the LORA/PIU have not
previously prepared project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation and use of the project
management reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project
management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial up-front actions which are being taken on:
(i) design of a comprehensive financial management system; (ii) computerization of the financial
management system; and (iii) recruitment of key financial staff to augment financial management
capabilities. When there is a scarcity of appropriate software in BH, we can advise the borrower to look
elsewhere for proven software. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of
Project Management Reports (PMRs), but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement basis in the
first year. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the financial management
system is satisfactorily operated.
While there are few qualified accountants in BH, this risk can be mitigated by stipulating the profile of the
desired accountant and ensuring that the Bank has say in the recruited accountant. When we conclude that
the accounting environment is poor and we have chosen to work around it and to build up the capacity
within the project - by not leaving the financial management arrangements entirely to the borrower but by
specifying in detail what we want, via creating a project coordination unit, i.e., ring-fence the project.
Concerning SOTAC, the risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized in the following ways: (a) the contract to
be signed between with PfU and ETF and the winning service providers will contain a clause to assure the
utilization of funds according to agreed objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the
possibility of black-listing a provider which does not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds
utilization; (b) payments will be linked to performance: Payments to service delivery providers to be based
on verified deliverables as agreed and stipulated in contracts; (c) contracts with service providers will be
based on appraised capacity; (d) close monitoring and supervision by PIU and ETF; (e) supervision of
financial flows will be carried out by the PIU and ETF on a sample basis and by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; and (f) intensive supervision by the World Bank - overall
supervision, including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a periodic basis by Bank staff.
The mitigation measures relating to the proposed NGO Innovation sub-component (the types of activities
include home care for the elderly; special care for the handicapped; and testing new income assessment
methods) are listed below. The sub-component would have contracts with NGOs, which would be based on
proposals submitted to the PIU/Bank from local NGOs, but endorsed by the local Centers for Social Work
(the social welfare office). Contract size would be around $40-60,000, and there would be a total of perhaps
10-12 such contracts. The procurement would be not very complex, but the Credit would have to have
monitoring/performance indicators to ensure that the funded activity delivers what it promised. The sign-off
of the local Center for Social Work would be required, in addition to a series of output indicators. The
funds flow is from PIU to the NGO, who then manages any second-level payments. Verification process
relies in first instance on the local Centers for Social Work, who are in regular contact with the client group
for the NGO activities. They would verify with clients that visits etc. actually took place and with what
frequency/inputs etc. They would also verify with NGO their staff and other inputs on activities financed
under the contract. This would in turn be subject to random oversight from the PIU directly. In terms of



Page 59
how funds disburse, it is suggested roughly a quarter to one third up front, with the remainder disbursed in
at least two installments subject to adequate verification/performance in first period.
Until the Federation PIU has been certified by the Bank meeting the minimum financial management
requirements, it is to sub-contract the financial management services to Public Works and Employment
Project's PIU (LORA). Before the Federation assumes the financial management responsibilities, the
working relationship between the PIUJ and LORA in the Federation could become unsatisfactory, leading to
poor financial management services. This risk is mitigated by the following actions: (a) proper contractual
agreement specifying the scope, the types and costs of services to be provided, (b) establishing proper
communication channel between the PI1 and LORA, and (c) the SOTAC will be suspended in case that any
of the parties (LORA and PIU) breaks the contract before integration of the finance unit under the PELRP
PIU.
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns had been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of
donor funds in Bosnia. The anti-fraud unit of the Office of the High Representative had raised this issue.
Media reports alleged losses of over $1 billion of donor funds. It has been recognized that there has been
an absence of a functioning legal framework and institutions of law. Enforcement of law is recognized to
be weak. In the 1999 Corruption Perception Index, BH was not included in the indices. However, we can
extrapolate the likely ranking for BH based on its neighboring countries - Croatia was ranked #74 with the
score of 2.7, Albania was ranked #84 with the score of 2.3, and Yugoslavia was ranked #90 with the score
of 2.0. Therefore we can reasonably estimate the ranking for BH of around #80s and a score of low to mid
2.0s. This index relates to perceptions of corruption as seen by business people, risk analysts and the
general public and ranges between 10 (highly clean) and 0 (highly corrupt). Perceived corruption as
reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. Even though the project is to be
implemented in a business environment with a high rate of perceived corruption, the risk that Bank's fund
will not used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as acceptable by "ring-
fence" the project through the establishment of PIU and ETF and the recruitment of suitably qualified
accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore the project has identified several steps indicated above, to
minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's fund.
Cost and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes credits from the Bank, and the project's planned expenditures
have been realistically estimated and that the project is financially sustainable. In order to facilitate the
implementation of PMRs, the project's cost tables include an appropriate cost matrix, which adequately
shows the relationship between the loan agreement categories and project components.
Auditing Arrangements
Both PIU and ETF will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, special account, and
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs) are audited by an independent
international auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC) and acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are
acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs or PMRs against which
disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs or PMRs, which will be
included in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.



Page 60
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs or PMRs of the preceding fiscal year,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of
project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing Entities have
maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures
submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Presently the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) signed a 3-year contract (1998-
2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands for the audit of all Bank's financed
projects (excluding revenue-earning Entities) in BH. The summary of 1999 project audits include:
* 16 audit reports (representing 100% of the projects audited) were received by June 27, 2000.
*  Except for Investment Guarantee Agency (Emergency Industrial Restart Project) which was qualified
because of the lack of audit in the prior year, the auditors issued unqualified/clean opinion.
*  No significant financial risks were identified during the audit of the Bank's financed projects.
* No major weaknesses but some internal control weaknesses were reported in the management letters.
The weaknesses reported include:
*  Several PIUs did not prepare financial statements in World Bank prescribed format. The audited
financial statements were prepared with the assistance of the auditors.
*  No responsible PIU for the preparation of the consolidated project financial statements. The
consolidated project financial statements were prepared by the auditors, based on the financial
statements of the reporting units.
*  Lack of explicit accounting policies and procedures on project assets when the project is closed.
*  Lack of explicit accounting policies and procedures on the application of the interest on local accounts.
*  Only one ZPP/Ziro account per PIU - Lack of reconciliation of all bank accounts.
*  Local bank and cash used for more funds and lack of controls over the funds.
In January 2000, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations signed an annex to the original
contract with the same auditing firm for the 1999 audits, which will commence in February 2000. This
arrangement would be acceptable to the World Bank. The MFTER is currently evaluating the performance
of the auditors.
Consistent with the FMAP, by August 31, 2000, the PIUs submitted a written notification to the Bank from
the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BH that the Social Sector Technical Assistance
Credit is included in the global auditing contract. It is expected that the cost of audit will be financed from
the credit.
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of three years, which includes
six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be June 30, 2003.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system (reimbursements with
full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and direct payments) and would be
considered for conversion to the new disbursement procedures (i.e., based on Project Management Reports
- PMRs) after the FMS is operating satisfactory. The target date for this conversion is around I year after
expected project start date.



Page 61
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate overseas Special Accounts, A and B,
denominated in US$ for the Federation-PIU and the RS-ETF, respectively. The authorized allocation for
Special Account A (for Federation-PIU) will be US$ 370,000 until withdrawal reaches SDR550,000 and for
Special Account B (RS-ETF) will be US130,000, until withdrawal reaches SDR 200,000 million. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents. For PMR-based disbursement, the authorized allocated
for Special Account A (for Federation PIU) will be US$370,000 and for Special Account B (RS-ETF) will
be US$130,000.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by IDA under the
Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is envisaged to be established by
both LORA/PIU and ETF. Independently, the accountants at the LORA/PIU and ETF would maintain
accounts (for their part of the project) each preparing quarterly financial reports as part of Project
Management Reports.
Currently no local banks in the country could be considered totally reliable and financially sound. It is
therefore recommended that banks outside BH should be used until local banking system is improved.
Conclusion
It is concluded that the LORA/PIU and ETF currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, the LORA/PIU and ETF do not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the project (Project Management Reports (PMRs)) as required by the Bank/IDA. An Action Plan
was discussed with the ETF in RS and the PIU in the Federation during appraisal. It will require the PIU
and ETF to design and implement satisfactory financial management systems to address the above issues.
Once this time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the project will have
developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the required level of financial management
reports in a timely fashion.



Page 62
Agreed Action Plan for the PIU and ETF
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound financial management system in place, the following
time-bound Action Plan is presented:
Action                                                            Deadline
1. Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of Foreign  August 31, 2000
Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BH that the Social Sector
Technical Assistance Credit has been included among other projects to
be audited by the Auditor acceptable to the Bank.
2. The PIU in Federation is to finalize institutional arrangement for  September 15, 2000
contracting out financial management to LORA and initially sign the
contract stating the types and scope which will be provided by LORA
3. Complete draft financial manuals by LORA and ETF. This will include:  September 30, 2000
> Accounting Policies and Procedures
> Designing accounting flows and controls;
> Flow of information/documents;
Flow of money;
Internal controls; and
Frequency of transaction and controls
)-Budgeting and Planning
4. Design reporting requirements for review by the Financial Management  October 31, 2000
Specialist. This will include
> PMRs and other World Bank requirements;
> Local accounting requirements;
> Local tax requirements;
> Other donor requirements;
> Trust fund requirements;
> Reporting currencies
5. Finalization of 2001 Budget, including recording and allocation of total December 31, 2000
budget in the accounting system - by month, and by year, by activities,
by categories, by sources and by account codes.
6. Reliable PMRs and satisfactory to the World Bank               February 15, 2002
7. Budget and budget revision are reasonable and accurate when compared  February 15, 2002
against the actual
8. Satisfactory supervision report, including FM implementation  February 15, 2002
9. Satisfactory withdrawal applications                           February 15, 2002
10. Satisfactory audit, especially internal controls             February 15, 2002
11. Review of the financial management arrangement by the FMS    February 28, 2002



Page 63
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)             7
First Bank mission (identification)               02/20/2000             02/20/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       04/30/2000             04/30/2000
Negotiations                                      09/21/2000             09/29/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     02/28/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees and Displaced Persons (FBH); Ministry of Veterans' Affairs,
War Casualties and Labor, and Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (RS).
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grant fund related to SOSAC for preparatory studies relevant to both SOSAC and SOTAC.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Philip O'Keefe                        Senior Economist
Kendra Gregson                        Social Policy Specialist
Jacob Gammelgaard                     Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Darrell Prokopetz                     Senior Social Protection Specialist
Milan Vodopivec                       Senior Labor Economist
Siew Chai Ting                        Senior Financial Management Specialist (Sarajevo)
Lucas Janssens                        PAS (Sarajevo)
Mirjana Karahasanovic                 Operations Officer (Sarajevo)
Imelda Mueller                        Program Assistant



Page 64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
A. Project Implementation Plan
To be provided.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The System of Social Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kendra Gregson, 1998.
The Continuum of Care in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kendra Gregson and Social Policy Task Force,
1999.
Briefing notes from December 1999 workshop: Labor Markets (Willem Van Eeghen); Pensions
(Philip O'Keefe); and Social Assistance (Philip O'Keefe and Kendra Gregson).
Veterans' Program in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kendra Gregson, 2000.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment. Siew Chai Ting, August 2000.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. Lucas Janssens, September 2000.
C. Other
Social Protection System in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Financing Issues - Consultant report of
Michael Whippman, 2000.
Social Assistance in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Consultant reports of Irena Topinska 1999 and 2000.
Labor Market Report and Employment Institutes - Consultant report of Alan Abrahart, 1999.
IMF - Staff papers presented at December 1999 workshop on Social Protection Reform in BH.
Possible Directions of Development of the Database for Monitoring Social Protection Beneficiaries
in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. International Bureau for
Humanitarian Issues, 2000.
Overview of the Current Use of the Databases for Monitoring of Beneficiaries of Social Protection
in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. International Bureau for
Humanitarian Issues, 2000.
*Including electronic files.



Page 65
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a'
(As of Oct 31, 2000)
US$ Million
(Less Cancellations)
Fiscal
Loan No.   Year   Borrower                  Project                                     Loan      Undisbused
Loan/CreditsJ Grants
IBRDb'
4038-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan A                              28.6         0.0
4039-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan B                             284.9         0.0
4040-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan C                             307.1         0.0
Total                                           620.6         0.0
Of which: Repaid                                 24.
Total Now Hold by the Bank                      595.7         0.0
TFBH a (Under Dlsbursement)
TF-024030     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Recovery Credit                         45.0         0.0
TF-024031     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Farm Reconstruction                     20.0         0.0
TF-024032     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Water Supply                            20.0         0.0
TF-024033     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Transport                               35.0         0.7
TF-024034     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency District Heating                        20.0         0.0
TF-024035     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation               5.0         0.0
TF-024040     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Education Reconstruction                 5.0         0.0
Total                                           150.0          0.7
IDA
2897-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Education Reconstruction                 5.0         0.0
2896-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation               5.0         0.4
2902-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Housing Repair                          15.0         0.0
2903-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Power Reconstruction                    35.6         0.2
2904-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Pubilc Works and Employment             10.0         0.4
2905-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Landmines Clearance                      7.5         0.0
2906-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration         7.5         0.3
2914-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Transition Assistance Credit                      90.0         0.0
N001-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee             10.0         0.0
N002-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency MicroenterpriseiLocal Initiatives        7.0         0.4
N003-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Essential Hospital Services                       15.0         1.7
N032-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Transport Reconstruction 11                       39.0         1.6
N035-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Education Reconstruction II                       11.0         0.5
3028-BOS      1998 Bosnia and HeRzegovina   Reconstrucion Assistance Project                  17.0         1.6
3029-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Natural Gas                             10.0         0.0
3070-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                        5.0         0.3
3071-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Power II                                          25.0        11.5
N040-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Heizegovina   Forestry                                           7.0         6.2
3090-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)          63.0         0.0
3191-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Local Development                                 15.0        14.3
3202-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Basic Heaith                                      10.0         9.1
3262-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Enterprise and Bank Privatization Project         50.0        24.5
3257-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Enterprise Export Facility Project                12.0        10.1
3269-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Pilot Cuitural Heritage Project (LIL)              4.0         3.2
3258-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Second Public Finance (Structural Adjustment)     72.0        43.5
3351-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Education Development Project III                 10.6        10.6
3385-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Mostar Water and Sanitation                       12.0        12.0
3400-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Labor Redeployment                      15.0        15.0
Total                                           585.2       167.4
Grand Total                                     735.2       168.1
al The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in executibon,
which is updated twice yearly and drculated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October331
b/ Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became ffectbve on June 14, 1996.
c/ Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



Page 66
Bosnia-Herzegovina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997/99            Bosnia Micro                  0 00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27      0,00    0.00
1985               Energoinvest                  7.36    0.00    0 00    0.00    7.36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund               0.00     1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73     0.00    000
1998               SEF Akova                     1.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Bosnalijek                0.00    0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.05    0.00
1999               SEF Kopex                     1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Lignosper                 1.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.66    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici                2.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.07    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Sarajevska                    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                     3.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.07    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL                4.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Inga                     1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Konjub                   2.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.84    0.00      0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Kozara                   1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Podgradci                1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Vrbas                    1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      32.18     1.97    2.05    0.00   24.85    1.00    2.05    000
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval     Company                    Loan            Equity           Quasi           Panic
2001            SEFBosnalijek 11         2300.00            0.00             0.00             0.00
Total Pending           2300.00             0.00            0.00             0.00
Commitment:



Page 67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                        9/13100
Boarnd   Europe &    Lower
POVERTY snd SOCIAL                                       and    Comm    middle         - -
HOOltisa          A_      bp,fo        Developnwnt diamond,
1S9I
PopulMtion  mrid-var f os)                                 ..       475      2,094                   Life eypectancy
GNP pWcapita sAmefsO , US$)                                ..      2,t50     1.200
GNP (Al/aWsmofd. US$ b5dno)                               4.5      1,022     2,513
A nace anSa  rowt 10939O
Poput%On 1)                                                          0 41      ttJ
LOaW)f                                                     -         0.6       t1.2     GNP                               Gross
Moo recent osllrraft (Wbst ver "law  1"3.$%per                                                    pnimary
capita                        enrollment
Povtt %ottopo   n    WO vOfyIn
UfevPufaOn4bI% of o1w pmi/atien)                       43         87         43
ti/               h(ywav at b )t fye                      73         89         69
Intent motay (poer .Oi0 ive biS)                           13        22         33
Child Minftron Mf chlud under 5)                                      8         1                  Access to safe water
ACCs to lntove wate sue%    cuoas.on)                                           08
tltiterc (%S OdOPIa    ae 15.).                                       3         18
Gross piimerye      t fXofsclonJ                            ..      100        114          8- osnia and Herzegovna
Mkw                                                      ..       0t         114         L     Lower-middlWincome goup
fecl                                                     ..        99        1S618.                             ...  
KEY ECOOMbC RATIOS an  LO        T URM TRENDS
1S79     1S9S9      19Is"     1S19
GDPfUSS W      3                                 4. ..               4Economic ratioV
Goss domrstc inestment/GOP                         .        .         (1      33.3                      Trade
Eaf     t  tof de and segvic.ulGOP                                  33,7      34-o
Gross dmesic saiG[)P                                                 I.1       9.4
Gros nrtions savins/GOP                                             10.9      18.7
Cr.a8ntac trDt bane/DP                                             -27.1     -186.
mteresttwnzGt)P                                  ..       ..        t1 4       1S4     Domestic                      Investment
Tota daeM/'OP                                                       74.0      67.5      SrMngVs 
To ta d.btsa Cia/asp..t                                             96        7.9
Prast  vau  of debGOP                                               25.7
Pracsa va       of. dbt..poqt                                       783
Indebtedness
197949  119           1t#       1t9     1193
(averae nnual ow iovv)
GOP                                                      1 12.8     t00       1S.0          -Bosnia andlHerzegovina
GNP p       er cap..a12.8                                           10.0      11 1            -  Lower4nicdie-income goup
Ev"   of 9tdsands ..rvcs                                 33.7       11.0      120
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979 o19S9          1998       199       Growth of investmnt and GDP I%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                                        '15.8      158       75
Industry                                                            27.8      27.8      s0
Manufactuing                                                              .           25 .            f
Services                                                            56 4      56.4      o
Private consumption                                         .         ..               -25     94   95   96   97   98    9
General govemment consumption                    ..                                                            --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                       70.6      57.9     -                0       GDP
(a ver-a go annual growth)                  19794S9  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of expots and import (#)
Agnculture                                                                             ISOe
rIndustry                                                                             1251
Manufacturin1
Services                                                               .60
Pnvate consumpton                                 .        ..         .. 
General govemment consumption                                                                  94 -.  .  ..  r 6    97   go
Gross domestic investment                                  ..        3 7      -3.5    |60
Imports of goods and services                              ..        7.8      -9.8                   Eits       Qlrr ts
Gross national product                                    1..        7.3      111 t
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incornplete.
S =gS7J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"-'-.5s.ii



Page 68
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             20
Consumer prices (in KM, the Federabon)            ..       ..        5.0       0.0     10
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..        ..         .,        .       0
Government finance                                                                                
(% of GDP, inchldes cunent grants)                                                     -20
Current revenue                                   ..       ..       32.6      29.4    -30
Current budget balance                           ..        ..       -0.6      -3.7                   GDP deflator *    CP
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..       -7.2      -3.0
TRADE
(USS n7lons)                                   1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..        ..       817       970      3,000
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures                                                                         ZOOO
Total imports (ci)                               ..        ..     2,573      2,399
Food                                                                                  00
Fuel and energy                                -.
Capital goods                                   ..       ..         ..        ..
93   94   95   9S   97  9B  99
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..                                               94 ..  ..
Import price index (1995=100)                     .                                                  Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%),
(USS milions)                                                                           ricl current officlal trnsfer
Exports of goods and services                    ..        ..      1,367     1,560
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..     2,864     2,661       0
Resource balance                                  ..       ..    -1,498    -1,101           93
Net income                                        .111                         -79     -10.                      U :
Net currnt transfers                             ..        ..       510       417               I    .
Current account balance                          ..        ..    -1,098      -763
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..      1,014     1,347              _ 
Changes in net reserves                          ..        ..        85      -583        .-
Metmo:                                                                                 -30 -
Reserves including gold (USS nw/Ions)            ..        ..       175       380
Conversion rate (DEC, ocalkUSS)                                      1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS nrilions)                                                                         Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outsaanding and disbursed              ..
IBRO                                           ..       ..        596       596
IDA                                                               437       373                    277.6
Total debt service                               ..
IBRD                                            ..      ..         35        34           400.4
IDA                                             ..       ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       437
Official grants                                ..                 469       735
Official creditors                              ...18 181                   255
Private creditors                              ..       ..        -75       -74                                    77
Foreign direct investment                                           0        60
Portfolio equity                                ,0                            0               1123.
Worild Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       ..        100       163      A - IBRD                     E- ailateral
Disbursements                                  ..        ..       135        68      B - IDA    D- Other rrjtilateri  F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        ..         0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net lows                                        ..      ..        135        68
Interest payments                              ..       ..         38        36
Net transfers                                  ..       ..         97        32
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/13/00



Page 69
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy for Proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit
l.    The attached letter of Development Policy is for the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC), for
which SOTAC is a companion technical assistance credit. The LDP was reviewed during SOSAC negotiations
on September 21 and 22, 2000, and its contents were endorsed as part of the package of negotiated documents
for the credit, for which confirmation was received from the State and both Entities in early October 2000. The
SOSAC is currently scheduled for Board presentation in early calendar 2001.
November**, 2000
Mr. J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washington DC, 20433,
U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you are aware, BH has experienced continuing economic recovery and social stability since the
signing of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement in December 1995. The reconstruction effort, financed in large
part through the support of the international community, has already yielded significant results, as reflected in
increased production and trade, restored services, and improved infrastructure. At the same time, many people
in BH continue to have low standards of living, with high unemployment, a partial and unpredictable social
safety net, and continued displacement of large numbers of people.
Spurred by donor-funded reconstruction, growth has remained strong. In tandem with good macroeconomic
performance, major progress has been made in reconstruction during the last two years. Implementation of the
1996-1999 Priority Reconstruction and Recovery Program (PRRP), has been largely successful in rebuilding
economic and social infrastructure and restarting economic activity. By the end of this year, it is anticipated that
road, telecom, power, water and education services, will be at or near prewar availability levels. Though down
from the very high postwar levels, GDP growth is estimated to have been around 10 percent in 1999.
While strengthened institutions and policies have contributed to macro stability, substantial fragility
remains. In May 1998, we embarked on an ambitious economic reform program, supported by IDA adjustment
lending and an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA). We hope that the SBA will be converted to a PRGF some
time in 2001. The objectives of this program have been to create a unified economic space and a functioning
banking system; privatize and restructure enterprises; reshape the pension and health systems; implement a
simplified customs system; and liberalize the trade regime. Underlying these policies is a macroeconomic
stabilization program based on a currency board.
The most successful economic achievement over the last two years has been full establishment of BH' s
Central Bank and launching of its new currency -- the Konvertibile Marka (KM), pegged to the Deutsche Mark
(DM). The KM has gained credibility throughout the country. Other achievements include adoption of a liberal



Page 70
countrywide customs tariff regime. Barriers to the internal movement of people and goods have been
eliminated, and inter-Entity trade has increased substantially. On the fiscal side, discipline has been maintained,
with the 1999 budget deficit for the Federation held to about 1.3 percent of GDP, and 3.5 percent in Republika
Srpska (both financed by donors). Nevertheless, tax policy lacks stability, harmonization between the Entities
has taken time and remains incomplete, and tax evasion is widespread.
BH' s political institutions and relationships have slowly matured. The functioning of new State
institutions mandated by the Dayton Peace Agreement, and the cooperation between BH's two Entities have
improved over the last two years. Following countrywide elections in September 1998, the tri-partite State-level
Presidency appointed a Council of Ministers (COM) which has managed government business. In addition,
other developments have helped consolidate the country's political framework, among them the long-awaited
arbitration of Brcko which resolved the last wartime boundary dispute.
Social Policy reforms:
Given relative economic and political stability in recent years, we feel that there must now be greater
focus on the social impact of growth and the ongoing transition. This is key to ensuring that growth is poverty-
reducing and inclusive, and so remains social sustainable. Despite the growth of recent years, there remain
many poor and vulnerable households in BH, affected by lack of employment opportunities, weaknesses in the
social safety net, and factors specific to BH such as displacement. As in all countries, the primary source of
support for all households should be availability of productive employment opportunities. At the same time, not
everyone is able to benefit equally from growth, and it is important to improve the functioning and impact of the
social safety net, so that limited resources are focused more on those most in need. Improved poverty reduction
for the social safety net is in turn reliant on better social statistics, both survey-based and administrative data.
To achieve these objectives, we need a fundamental reorientation in social policy, in particular in the areas of
labor market and social welfare policy, and social statistics.
We realize that serious reform of social policy is a process which will take time and political commitment to
accomplish, but are committed to the reform process. Through the recently approved CAS of the World Bank
Group, we indicated our commitment to medium term labor market and social protection reform through
agreement on a sequenced program of adjustment and investment lending in these areas. This includes the
proposed SOSAC and its companion TA credit (SOTAC), a follow-up SOSACII which would support more
comprehensive reforms of social transfer programs, and a technical assistance credit which would facilitate
implementation of reforms in social insurance programs (in particular pensions and health insurance). The
SOSAC program supports reforms in labor and social protection policies which are immediately feasible and
needed most urgently. Just an importantly, it sets out the medium term policy reforrn agenda in these areas for
the period 2000-2003, and establishes the institutional and fiscal framework for elaboration of concrete reforms
in areas such as disability programs and social assistance, for which implementation would be supported under
SOSACII, the SOTAC and other programs. We also emphasize that the policy agenda for SOSAC and medium
term reforms was developed with substantial inputs from civil society, in particular through a December 1999
inter-Entity conference in Sarajevo which our respective ministries hosted to help define the social protection
reform agenda.
The measures which we have recently taken in social policy reform, and which are supported by the
proposed SOSAC are outlined in detail below, and include:
*  reforming key labor legislation in order to promote a more flexible labor relations framework that will
stimulate growth of productive employment opportunities, while continuing to respect core labor standards;
*  developing the policy directions and institutional framework for reform of the social protection system;
*  strengthening the official strategy for communicating the goals of social policy reform to the public;
*  specifying options for reforn of social assistance that would promote greater equity and protection of the
poorest; and
*  initiating reforms of the social statistics system, so that it can provide reliable and timely household level



Page 71
and administrative data for living standards monitoring and policy aeevelopment.
Promoting poverty reducing economic policies:
A major challenge in the coming years is promoting development goals that aim at providing a better life
and greater opportunity for all Bosnians, as part of a politically stable and prosperous region linked to Europe.
Four years of war have been followed by four years of high dependence on external technical and financial
assistance. However, we recognize that BH must now assume greater direct responsibility for development of a
vibrant economy and society.
As a step toward greater self-sustainability, the BH government is now preparing its first Economic
Development Strategy (EDS) which will set out reform measures and priorities for the medium term. While the
strategy has only recently been initiated, it has been broadly discussed in BH and there has been a substantial
meeting of the minds on its key elements. In particular, we see the EDS as a major step in bringing poverty
reduction to the heart of economic policy in BH, and view it as a critical input to the interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which we hope to complete by mid-200 1.
We have already prepared the framework EDS, and established an inter-Entity working group to elaborate
it. The group has recently produced a draft version of the EDS.
Social protection policy and institutionalframework:
We recognize that policy formulation is under-developed and uncoordinated across the social sectors, a
situation exacerbated by the devolution of most responsibilities in social assistance, health and education. In
social protection this has resulted in fragmented approaches to basic planning and management, and limited
policy prioritization. Dealing with these issues in BH is complicated by the delineation of responsibilities of
different levels of government in both Entities under the Dayton accords.
In the immediate post-war years, social protection policy was largely driven by ad hoc policy making.
The situation is reflected in the absence of a medium term fiscal expenditure framework for social protection,
which could act as a tool to promote the prioritization of short- and long-term measures, and of their
consideration within the context of the available resource envelope. In addition, there is no coherent strategy for
communicating the nature and objectives of reforms to the general public. However, the stabilization of recent
years has put the country in a position where a more typical policy and institutional framework has become not
only appropriate, but urgently needed.
In order to improve the current situation, it has been necessary to bring together the various actors in the
social protection system in policy and budgetary discussions. We have been doing this through two main
channels to date. First, since 1998 there has been an inter-Entity Social Policy Task Force (SPTF) which meets
regularly to discuss all aspects of social policy in BH. This comprises representatives from relevant ministries,
NGOs, academics, trade unions, and the international community. The SPTF has played a major role in
discussion of crosscutting issues in social policy in BH. The second more recent initiative is the social
protection Budget Framework Paper (BFP) discussions. This has drawn on representatives from all relevant
social policy ministries and the Ministry of Finance, as well as representatives of pilot cantons taking part in the
BFP exercise.
In order to address the current institutional and policy problems in social protection, and as part of the
program supported by the SOSAC, we have taken the following actions:
* each Entity has established a Social Protection Commission/Working Group (SPC), which would act as the
key coordinating body to help reduce fragmentation of policy making in the social protection sector. The
Commissions have representation from labor, social welfare, veterans, pensions, employment services,
refugee/displaced persons, MOF, and health sectors;



Page 72
* the SPC in each Entity has developed a draft Social Protection Strategy for the period 2000-2003. We view
these strategies as providing for the first time an overall policy framework and directions for reform of the
social protection system in BH. They will be elaborated and refined under the overall direction of the SPCs,
with future implementation supported by SOSACII and other donor programs;
* based on several workshops in recent months, each Entity has produced a Social Protection Expenditure
Strategy for the period 2001-2003, which is an integral part of the overall BFP, and will be the guiding
budget narrative document in preparation of the 2001 budgets for both Entities and pilot cantons in FBH.
They would also provide the framework for budget planning exercises in future years. This is the first time
that an exercise of this type has been done for the sector. The agreed SPES for each Entity has recently
been approved by the Government of each Entity;
* the relevant public organs in both Entities have agreed to participate in a functional review of the social
protection sector, in order to assess where there are capacity development needs, and determine the most
appropriate institutional configuration for ensuring that the needs of the poor are addressed most effectively.
TOR for this task have been agreed during SOSAC preparation, and we plan to finance the reviews from the
proposed SOTAC; and
* there is a large need to inform the public more effectively of the goals and likely outcomes of different
reforms. This need is nowhere stronger than in the social sectors, because of the direct impact of reforms on
all households. It also requires more intensive dialogue with social partners in the labor market field. As
part of this longer run effort to improve our public information and consultation, we intend to design and
implement a public information campaign on the nature and objectives of social policy reforms. The TORs
have been agreed for such an effort, and we plan to finance the campaign design and implementation under
the SOTAC.
Labor market legislation and policy:
BH presently has an unsustainably high level of unemployment. While it is difficult to get robust
estimates of unemployment, due to the large informal sector, official statistics give an indication of the scale of
the problem. Registered unemployment in the first half of 2000 was around 263,000 in the Federation and
147,000 in Republika Srpska (around 40 percent of the estimated labor force in each Entity). If workers on
waiting lists are included in the estimates, the broad official rate of unemployment increases to around 44
percent in the Federation, and almost 50 percent in the RS (wait lists are a phenomenon of former Yugoslavia,
where surplus workers are retained by enterprises, with entitlements in principle to social security contributions
and part payment of wages).
While a significant share of the registered unemployed may generate some income in the informal sector,
survey data suggest that the unemployed on average are living in difficult conditions, with poverty rates between
three and five times higher than for households where the head is employed. With the advent of privatization,
we are concerned that unemployment rates will increase in the short run, as enterprises are restructured. This is
likely to increase the share of the already-large informal sector in the economy.
The environment for creation of productive employment opportunities in the formal sector is to date has
not been encouraging. Core labor legislation in both Entities promotes centralized and detailed control of labor
relations, reinforcing rigidities in the labor market, and creating unreasonable and unnecessary obligations on
employers. Tax rates on labor are high, discouraging hiring of new workers, and increasing incentives for
informality. The environment for SMEs is onerous and limits growth of small firms.
These typical features of transition economy labor relations are increased in the case of BH by a number
of specific features. These include: (i) the legacy of the war in terms of the existence and size of waiting lists at
many enterprises; (ii) remaining issues with respect to labor market discrimination; and (iii) the strong residual
welfare function of enterprises, which undermines their core objectives of productivity and employment growth.
This is more acute in former Yugoslav economies due to the long tradition of socially-owned economic assets.
Finally, the trade union movement in BH is strong, which increases the challenges of balancing protections and
entitlements of existing workers with the need to keep labor costs under control and stimulate new employment.



Page 73
In response to this, governments in both Entities have already taken steps to promote future labor demand
- steps which are important prior actions in support of the SOSAC reform agenda. These include:
* a reduction in payroll taxes during 1999 and 2000, in order to stimulate formal sector labor demand. There
are plans for further gradual reductions in taxes on labor, though paying careful attention to the fiscal and
social consequences; and
* perhaps most significantly, we have embarked on a major privatization program. While it is still in the early
stages of implementation, we see the program as the vehicle for a fundamental transformation of the
economy, which should lead to higher productivity, growth, and ultimately employment. However, simply
transforming ownership of enterprises is not likely to lead to desired productivity gains unless other aspects
of the incentive framework are improved.
The authorities have been actively engaged with the international community on many areas of the labor
market. This includes the privatization policy dialogue and lending agenda being pursued with IDA and others
such as USAID; initiatives on SME development with IFC and others such as EBRD; and support of
microfinance programs for self-employment, through the Local Initiatives Credit with IDA and a range of
initiatives with bilaterals.
As a key part of our efforts, we view labor legislation as critical to creating an employment-generating
policy environment. In both Entities, core labor legislation was passed in the 1990s which superceded the
inherited Yugoslavian labor laws. However, it has become clear that the current labor laws have not done
enough to alter the basic philosophy of labor relations inherited from the socialist period. This includes: (i) an
unclear relationship between core labor legislation and other laws; (ii) unresolved issues with respect to waiting
lists, in particular unaffordable levels of compensation to wait listed workers which place an unreasonable
burden on firms; (iii) rigid hiring and firing provisions; (iv) unaffordable entitlements upon dismissal; (v) rules
for fixed-term contracts that are not considered suitable for a market economy; and (vi) fiscally unsustainable
unemployment benefit and active labor programs. Beyond these priority areas are a range of other
shortcomings, including an overly intrusive role for the Labor Inspectorate; provisions which discriminate
indirectly against women; and lack of flexibility for employers to opt out of collective agreements to which they
were not parties. We recognize the need to address these deficiencies as a priority, in order to create labor
market conditions which will be more conducive to job creation. Given the current level of unemployment, we
view this as of paramount social, economic and political importance.
In recent months, there has been intensive work between the authorities in both Entities and the
international community which has led to reform of key labor legislation. Several key reforms are supported
under the SOSAC, and other measures requiring further analysis and reforms would be supported under
SOSACII. The recent work has been undertaken by the Labor Legislation Reform Commission in FBH, which
was established by Ministerial decree and includes representatives from the ministry, OHR, ILO and the World
Bank. In the RS, a Working Group on Labor Legislation Reform was established by ministerial decree with
similar membership. The priority reforms in both Entities which have been introduced are intended not only to
promote greater employment generation, but also to harnonize labor standards in the two Entities to the extent
possible, in order to promote free flow of workers and a single economic space in BH. It is also stressed that the
reforms continue to be consistent with international standards, and BH's commitments under ILO conventions.
Key reforrns have been approved in the core labor law in each Entity, and work is ongoing on a final
draft of a new Labor Law for the district of Brcko. In FBH, this was done through a Law on Amendments to the
Labor Law, which amended around one third of the previous law. In the RS, this took the form of a new labor
code. The key reforms introduced include:
* abolition of all wait lists, and substantial reductions in compensation for those terninated from wait lists to
levels better able to be afforded by firms. These are critical measures in making labor relations in BH
consistent with market economy principles, and ensuring that enterprises are not overwhelmed by liabilities



Page 74
to wait-listed workers;
* increased flexibility on conditions for entering into employment contracts, including freedom to enter into
fixed-term and oral employment contracts. These are particularly important measures in the period of major
labor market adjustment which will follow privatization;
* less restrictive provisions on ternination of employment contracts, including greater flexibility on the
circumstances in which workers can be dismissed, reduced compulsory notification periods prior to
termination, and simpler rules on collective dismissals;
* less detailed regulation of all aspects of employment terms in the core labor legislation, with more
derogation to collective agreements, employment contracts and firm-level "rule books"; and
*  strengthening of non-discrimination provisions, an issue of particular importance in BH.
An additional area of concern in labor relations is the legal framework for conclusion of collective
agreements. To date, there is no overarching legal framework which regulates the conclusion of such
agreements, including who may legitimately be parties to them, their duration, and their impact on private
employers who are not parties to the agreement. In FBH, the Government and trade unions have recently
amended the General Collective Agreement, in order to limit the duration of the agreement to one year, and
provide that private sector employers who were not party to the agreements are not bound by it. This is an
important step in allowing future private and foreign investors to agree on the most suitable employment terms
with workforces, subject to respect for core labor standards. The RS is committed to similar reforms, and the
recently adopted labor law allows for the first time for employers not to be automatically covered by general and
branch collective agreements.
In addition to amendments to the labor code in each Entity, there have been significant amendments to
the laws governing the rights of the unemployed and the operations of the Employment Institutes which
administer public programs. Employment Institutes are active in both Entities which are responsible for active
and passive labor market programs, but there are structural problems with sustainability, and a need to improve
transparency and accountability in their operations. In FBH, the situation is complicated by the existence of
three Els (two Bosniak and one Croat), with the FBHEI functioning under an unclear legal mandate. Currently,
El programs are underfunded, so that both unemployment benefits and active labor programs are ineffective. At
the same time, the level of payroll tax needed to finance adequate programs is beyond what would be desirable
in the current environment of high labor taxes.
In order to address the fiscal sustainability issues, improve transparency, and bring programs for the
unemployed more in line with regional standards, both Entities have introduced as part of the SOSAC program
reforms to unemployment legislation, including:
* abolishing the monopoly of Els in job mediation, allowing for private sector involvement;
* substantial reductions in the maximum length of unemployment benefit entitlement;
* significant reductions in the level of unemployment benefits, in order to bring revenues and expenditures
more into line; and
* in FBH, simplification of the institutional structure, giving FBHEI a clear legal base for its operations.
Looking further ahead, trying to reconcile the current situation and future objectives will not be possible
without a fundamental assessment of the core functions of the Els, and the public sector's ability to finance
them. To this end, we have agreed on reviews of El programs, including measures to ensure that their
operations are carried out in a more transparent manner, in particular agreement on TOR for special reviews of
all four Els, which would be financed under the SOTAC. We plan that implementation of the recommendations
of these reviews will be part of the SOSACII agenda.
Cash Transfer Programs
The Governments of both Entities view social transfer programs as an important pillar of poverty
alleviation. Even with more pro-poor growth and effective employment generation, there will remain significant



Page 75
numbers of people who do not feel the full benefits of growth. While the current system has many programs,
total public transfers are not allocated in a manner which alleviates poverty most effectively. Improving the
situation will require a fundamental reassessment of social transfer programs, so that future spending patterns
reallocate funds between programs, and between regions within each Entity, so that the poorest are better
provided for, whatever their geographical location or social group.
Social assistance - like many other social programs - has been in a state of crisis in BH in recent years.
in terms of the legal framework, however, to date there has not been the adjustment in entitlements and focus on
core objectives that could have been expected given the fiscal constraints and social needs. This has led to a
situation in many parts of BH where the credibility of the system has been undermined, due to inability to
deliver on policy commitments.
A key issue in BH is that the financing and implementation of social assistance is primarily the
responsibility of the local governments, while policy development is the responsibility of Entity governments.
As a result, there is wide variation in the effectiveness of social assistance, which depends on the economic
situation of each region, as well as the relative priority given to social protection by local authorities. In the
Federation, each canton is in principle responsible for determining the benefits which are to be provided, and the
share of responsibility between the canton and the municipal level. Although the Federation-wide legal
framework details the categories of beneficiaries, cantons must find the resources to meet the entitlements. In
Republika Srpska, responsibility for Child Protection is with the Children's Fund, which promotes a sharing of
risk across the Entity. In addition, there is a social solidarity "fund", intended as a form of equalization
mechanism to protect the most vulnerable groups. However, it has been used to date to finance pension and
veterans' programs, rather than social assistance. Apart from these funds and social institutions which are the
responsibility of the Entity, social assistance remains the responsibility of the municipality. As a result, levels of
social assistance vary considerably across the Entity.
In order to improve the equity and impact of social assistance programs, it has been necessary to
develop reform proposals. These also feed into the overall Social Protection Strategy in each Entity. To this
end, social protection experts in each Entity have prepared reports which outline the main directions for reforms
of financing, targeting, administration, and entitlement structure of social assistance programs. The objective of
the proposed reforms is to improve the impact of social assistance programs for the poor, no matter where they
reside in each Entity. A central mechanism of social assistance reform is to promote greater pooling of
resources at the Entity level, so that there is greater scope for equalization of social assistance spending in
different regions. In a series of Government and donor workshops in 1999 and 2000, there has been
considerable support from all levels of government and civil society for such reforms. The social assistance
reform proposals would set the stage for considering reforms of the tax system that would support greater
pooling of revenues, and eventually for a more equitable social safety net in the two Entities. In the coming
year, we intend to elaborate the reform proposals for social assistance into more concrete measures - with the
assistance of the international community, including under SOTAC- and the necessary legislative and
administrative reforms would be supported as key policy actions under SOSACII.
With respect to other social transfer programs, disability programs are an area of social protection
policy which we view as of high importance, given the vulnerability of many program beneficiaries and the
legacy of the conflict in BH. However, to date is has been difficult to get a comprehensive view of the coverage
and impact of disability programs, as programs are administered by different institutions, and it is unclear which
beneficiaries have entitlements to other benefits. In addition, the current system of disability benefits is
characterized by overly complex categorization of beneficiaries, which results in beneficiaries whose ability to
work is not impaired by international standards, and consequently less funds being available for those with
serious disabilities.
In order to introduce greater coherence into the overall system of social transfers, it has been necessary
to consolidate basic information on disability programs. We have therefore prepared a detailed report for each
Entity that outlines entitlements under various disability programs, including data on beneficiaries and



Page 76
expenditures under different disability programs. We plan that the analytical work already undertaken under
SOSAC, combined with further technical support under SOTAC, will allow both Entities to develop concrete
reforms of disability programs which could be supported under SOSACII. This should help move towards a
more streamlined disability system, which is coherently linked to other social transfer programs. It should also
support evolution of the disability system into one that focuses resources on the most seriously disabled who are
not able to support themselves, and in this way improve the poverty reduction impact of disability programs.
In the area of pensions, the LDP for the PFSACII outlined a detailed reform effort that is underway, in
particular institutional reform in FBH, and bringing Pension Fund finances into balance as soon as possible. In
addition to the measures under PFSACII, we have taken important steps recently to improve management of the
pension system statewide through inter-Entity efforts on exchange of data between the three pension funds.
Over recent months, there has been intensive dialogue between the three pension funds, and an agreement has
now been signed to exchange contributor history information. This will enable the RS and Mostar PFs to
calculate pensions on the basis of actual contributions, which they have not been able to do since the war. Over
the medium term, we see needs for further reform of the pension system, and plan to address these as part of the
policy agenda under SOSACII.
A central element of cash transfer programs in BH is veterans' beneftts. In both Entities, these
payments account for substantial shares of the Entity budget. Veterans' programs are characterized by the same
problems as general disability programs - in particular benefit payment to those with minor injuries - but the
situation is more acute, due to benefit levels which are higher than civilian disability benefits. We recognize
that the current shares of public spending on veterans' benefits are not sustainable, and that the medium term
structure of transfer spending will allocate less to these programs, while ensuring that those with more serious
disabilities as a result of their military service are provided for in an appropriate manner. At the same time, this
is an area where there will need to be gradual reform, taking account of the sensitive political and social issues
involved. Under the recently-approved Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, there will be technical
assistance to veterans' administrations in both Entities which should contribute to elaboration of needed reforms.
In addition, veterans' ministries have been active participants in the SPES exercise for the 2001 budget, and
contributed to development of the overall Social Protection Strategy for 2000-2003. Looking forward, we
anticipate that the policy recommendations coming out of further policy dialogue and technical assistance would
be support formulation of policy conditionality under SOSACII, in particular efforts to harmonize disability
assessment mechanisms between military and civilian programs, bring the levels of civilian and military benefits
closer, and focusing veterans' spending on those ex-soldiers with the most serious injuries.
Social Statistics:
The ability to produce statistics needed for design, implementation and evaluation of economic and social
policy in BH has been damaged by the war and transition. Three institutions are fornally responsible for
statistics in the country - two Entity level institutes [Federation Institute of Statistics (FIS) and the Republika
Srpska Institute of Statistics (RSIS)], and a State level agency created in April 1998 (BH Agency for Statistics,
BHAS). The FIS has been built from the prewar Sarajevo Regional Office of the Federal Statistical Institute and
retains knowledge, some survey skills, material such as maps, and infrastructure from before the war, The RSIS
is less well situated in that it was created from scratch.
One area that has been especially hard hit by the war is that of data collection at the household level. At
present, no household survey of any sort is being carried out in the territory of BH. The lack of household level
data is a serious one. While macro level data can provide some insight into overall welfare levels in the country,
they do so only in a limited fashion and permit little assessment of the impact of public spending and
government programs. Representative household level data is needed to provide information on: (i) the
distribution of income and consumption, and the share of the population living in poverty; (ii) the characteristics
of those living in poverty and the factors most affecting poverty levels; (iii) the identity of those benefiting (and
excluded) from public spending on social protection and other programs; and (iv) how households behave given
different economic incentives. Without such data, information on welfare and the effective of government



Page 77
programs is severely constrained.
In addition to absence of household level data, there are serious problems with administrative statistics.
Data on the number and breakdown of beneficiaries of cash transfer programs, as well as basic expenditure data,
is often not available at all, not available in a timely manner, or not comparable (due to inconsistent definitions).
As a result, development and implementation of social policy is done on the basis of limited information. This
makes it difficult to monitor the incidence of public expenditure, as there is little exchange of information across
different cash transfer programs.
There is a strong commitment on the part of the authorities to remedying this situation. We view the
development of reliable data as a key element of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Since early
1999, the Government and statistical agencies have been engaged in active dialogue and partnerships with the
international community, building on long-term support from the Government of Sweden. This has been
supported by an Institutional Development Fund grant from the World Bank.
Collaboration with the international community has resulted in development of a program for improving
social statistics in BH, focused primarily on generating representative household and labor force survey data. A
critical first step has been work to develop a sampling frame. This would be followed by design and
implementation of a Living Standards Measurement Survey, a Labor Force Survey, and an Income and
Expenditure Survey. Efforts will focus not just on the availability of reliable information, but also on ensuring
that the information is used when developing policy and determining spending priorities. The authorities in both
Entities have established teams to design and implement the surveys, and are committed to an open access
policy on survey results once they are available. To this end, an Open Access Data Agreement has been
approved by each Entity statistical institute.
We hope that the above elaboration of the program for social policy reform has clearly expressed our
commitment to improving the welfare of households throughout BH, by creating a more conducive environment
for creation of productive employment opportunities, improving the efficiency and impact on the poorest of the
social safety net, and supporting reforms in social statistics which will allow for significantly improved living
standards monitoring. The proposed SOSAC agenda is an initial step in what we view as a fundamental and
ongoing reform of labor market and social protection policies in BH. This in turn will contribute to poverty-
reducing growth. Over the medium term, we hope to realize more fully the goals of this ambitious agenda, in
particular a coherent and fiscally responsible overhaul of existing cash transfer programs to be supported under
the proposed SOSACII. The continued contribution of the World Bank and the rest of the international
community is an essential part of this challenging task.
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mr. Edhem Bicakcic                                    Mr. Milorad Dodik
Prime Minister                                        Prime Minister
Federation of BH                                      Republika Srpska
Mr. Dragan Covic                                       Mr. Novak Kondic
Deputy Prime Minster                                   Minister Of Finance
and Minister of Finance                                Republika Srpska
Federation of BH






MAP SECTION






16RD 28578R
BOSNIA AND HERZEGQVINA                                                  ________
16                       t'Tc Zagreb                        18'        T. Os;jek       R
ToZorb 2_                 _ zge      CROATIA                    To >FVinko,c; i
*t r r w s EW_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Osijek ;)
: T. Glin 6alCJ t    
/~~~~~k Novio   v                         ;        <>i.-;.Xekvd+ 
Qf<'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 -  ;/,      t Z       p     O
W k   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
43~~~~~~~~~~~~<-  -        <iC,/Prijeooj
a                                          Jrniavor~~~~~~~~~~ JE     
-   DAYTONAGREEMENTUNES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u-0'
/p -d                                 MO ; _VA
> J4 W 9) ,> tPodgTornvaiMdby                         c       a        4 
430 t)~-  -)  INTRA1NJONAIS                                                                  Ar ea            BULGOSARIA 43p
Adriatpc Sea  rMfa                               c nr
S~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O 3?   ijJ0 20  750
.                                                            I .       t CZECH  'PCsL~~~~&0eTheAEANIA    a-    30-5
Skeanydedrrw on 0                    . A-
6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 711 aceJlSpftac  at .a                                f, '   .   '-& RE TURKEY
_ _ 6   _  _  _      _   _  _  _   _   -     _  _   _  _  .   _     _   _  _  _               -  I: 
OCTOBER 1 997



