                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 30625

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-34390 TF-29816)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.8 MILLION
                             (US$3.55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                         FOR A

                   SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                                     December 21, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (BAM)
                 BAM 1.51945 = US$ 1.00
                     US$ 0.658 = BAM 1.00

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 to    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    BH                   Bosnia and Herzegovina
    CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
    CSW                  Centers of Social Work
    DEF                   Development Employment Fund
    EIs                   Employment Institutes
    FBH                   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
    ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
    IDA                   International Development Association
    ILO                   International Labor Organization
    LFS                   Labor Force Survey
    LSMS                  Living Standards Measurement Survey
    MOF                   Ministry of Finance
    MTEF                  Medium-term Expenditure Framework
    NGOs                 Nongovernmental Organnizations
    PERLP                 Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
    PIC                   Public Information Campaign
    PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
    QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
    PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    RS                    Republika Srpska
    SESP                  Second Employment Support Project
    SFRY                  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
    SOSAC                 Social Sector Adjustment Credit
    SOSAC II              Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit
    SOTAC                Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
    SP                    Social Protection
    TA                    Technical Assistance



                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
               Sector Manager:       Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Inguna Dobraja

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                      SOSAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      24

Project ID: P070650                                                  Project Name: SOSAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                                     CREDIT
Team Leader: Inguna Dobraja                                          TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOSAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-34390; TF-29816
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (84%); Other social services
                            (16%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/02/2000                                     Effective: 06/25/2001                06/25/2001
     Appraisal: 04/21/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/07/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA/MIN OF LAB; STATE OF BOSNIA &
                                           HERZEGOVINA/SOC POL; STATE OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA/REF&DP
                                           (FBH); STATE OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA/MIN OF LAB& VET AFFAIRS
                                           (RS)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. Von Gersdorff                       Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Jeanine Braithwaite                            Philip O'Keefe
ICR Primary Author:             Inguna Dobraja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) were the provision of a
sustainable system of social protection that targets spending more effectively on the poorest and is based on
reliable social statistics, and the creation of an improved labor relations framework in order to stimulate
employment growth. The project was a companion credit to a proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit
(Board presentation in February 2001). It also acted as a bridge between the first SOSAC, and a second
SOSAC for implementation in FY04-05. The SOTAC therefore promoted continuity in policy dialogue on
social protection. The project objectives had to be achieved through: (i) supporting development of
institutional and budgetary mechanisms for development and prioritization of social policy in BH; (ii)
improving the policy framework for generation of productive employment opportunities; (iii) improving the
impact and efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing programs on the needs of the poorest;
(iv) improving public information and consultation about the objectives and elements of social policy
reforms; and (v) strengthening the social statistics base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated
on a well-informed basis.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised during the project period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components:

1. Social Protection Policy Component ( US$1.73 million) - The component included technical
assistance, training, workshops and study tours on different aspects of social protection policy and
supported policy development and implementation for: (i) Social Protection strategy and expenditure
strategy development; (ii) social assistance reforms; (iii) reform of labor relations framework and
employment institutes programs; (iv) disability program reform; and (v) survey TA.

2. Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public Information Component ( US$ 1.95 million
) - The component supported : (i) functional reviews of social protection in both entities; (ii) public
information campaigns on objectives and nature of labor market and social protection reforms; (iii) client
registers for centers of social work (CSW); and (iv) NGO/CSW innovative collaborations in providing
particular type of social services to the local population.

3. Project Implementation Component ( US$ 0.2 million) - The component supported project
management , procurement and financial management.


3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised during the project period.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The SOTAC was consistent with the country's priorities indicated in the CAS of 2000 and focused on
three specific objectives: (i) help to strengthen the governance and institutional capacity to design and
implement the social protection programs; (ii) to provide support for institutional and policy measure to
improve labor relations framework, and (iii) to refine public policies on poverty alleviation.

The SOTAC complemented the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC), the operation that was highly


                                                       - 2 -

relevant to the country's development needs and supported a comprehensive program of social policy
reforms. The SOTAC mainly focused on strengthening institutional capacity to design, communicate and
implement social protection programs.

The QAG assessed the project quality at entry in March 2001. The panel gave an overall satisfactory
rating. The main conclusions from the assessment were:
l TA in SOTAC intended to complement the policy agenda supported by SOSAC;
l This arrangement was a clear response to improve the institutional capacity in understanding and
    implementing social protection reforms;
l SOTAC and SOSAC were prepared by a strong team, including staff in the field and with good
    participation form the counterparts and was based on good understanding and analysis of the economic
    and social situation;
l some aspects of the SOTAC implementation were not resolved and will require substantial
    preparation;
l appropriate key performance indicators need to be prepared.


The fact that SOTAC was a last minute add-on to the SOSAC operation with very limited preparation time
resulted in incomplete implementation arrangements that together with government changes at the beginning
of the project led to a serious delay in project execution.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has achieved its objectives and the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

The project was a companion credit to the Social Sector Adjustment Credit which was presented to the
Board in February 2001. It also bridged the SOSAC with the SOSAC II program which was approved by
the Board in June 2004. There was a sequence in designing the social sector operations in BH, with a gap
between the labor reform-focused SOSAC and a delayed SOSAC II supporting social safety net reforms.
SOTAC helped to bridge this gap and ensured a continuity in the policy dialogue between the government
and the Bank. As a result, the SOTAC successfully supported social sector reforms by providing essential
input to the preparation of the social safety net and cash transfer reform agenda supported under SOSAC
II.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Specific outputs by components are as follows:

Component 1. Social Protection Policy Component.

The main objective of this component was to implement measures that would improve the formulation and
implementation of social protection policies. This component was comprised of 5 sub-components: (a)
social assistance technical assistance; (b) special reviews of employment institutes; (c) social protection
expenditure strategy; (d) labor legislation and labor market technical assistance; and (e) social statistics.

Sub-component 1a. The objective of this sub-component was to assess the overall design of the social
welfare system, provide technical assistance in a range of areas associated with social assistance, including
operations of future entity-level funds; assessment and improvement of procedures in CSW, assessment of
existing social work methods and to develop proposals for reforming disability programs.



                                                      - 3 -

The social welfare system has been in crisis in recent years, for the most part unable to ensure an effective
and fiscally sustainable protection of the poor and vulnerable. Due to a decentralization of financing to
sub-entity levels of government, implementation of the social welfare legislation varied enormously and
suffered from separation of policy making and implementation as well as often poor and inefficient
administration.

The main results from the technical assistance were:
l recommendations on the re-organization of social welfare and child protection financing, including the
    centralization of financing for at least a minimum consistent social safety net at the entity level.
l recommendations for improving targeting methodology, including design of targeting criteria to ensure
    that social assistance reaches the poorest segments of population.
l detailed assessment of current social work practices in the Centers of Social Work and other social
    welfare institutions. This assessment also included review of the targeting methods applied by the staff
    of the CSW and recommendations on criteria to determine welfare system beneficiaries.
l draft guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of social service delivery at a local level, including
    options for increased number of actors to coordinate development of social welfare at a local level
    (municipal administration, municipal finance staff, NGOs etc).
l draft operational manuals to be used in CSW.
l analysis of disability programs, including coverage, benefit structure and financing sources.
l regular workshops to discuss the findings and recommendations.


The work of consultants was of a high quality and many of the policy proposals and recommendations are
being implemented or foreseen in further reform plans of the Government, including the reform agenda
supported by the SOSAC II.
As a result of the technical assistance, several laws and regulations were passed or drafted: Law on
Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, Regulation on Categorization of Persons with Mental and
Physical Disabilities, Regulation on Estimation of People Being under Procedure to Acquire Rights for
Social Protection in RS, draft Law on Employment and Professional Rehabilitation of People with
Disabilities in FBH.

The consultants report directly links to the SOSAC II second tranche program, and policy
recommendations will be of great assistance in designing and implementing the social welfare reforms
outlined by the entity Governments in the PRSP.

Sub-component 1b. The objective of this sub-component was to conduct an independent audit of the
financial position and a special review of the operations of the Employment Institutes in both entities. Both
the state and entity governments recognized the importance of clarifying the institutional arrangements for
employment services in BiH to make their operations more efficient and transparent.
Both Entities had programs for payment of unemployment benefits and provision of active labor market
programs that were administered by Employment Institutes in two entities (with separate Bosniak and
Croat EIs in the Federation and similarly organized cantonal Employment Services). In addition, the
successor of the former Employment Bureau for the Bosnia-Herzegovina of SFRY continued to exist with
no defined legal and financial basis. The former BH Employment Bureau failed to cooperate with the
external auditors that confirmed previous concerns about inappropriate management of funds and assets.
The special review determined that the business processes of both entity Employment Institutes are weak,
in particular in the administration of soft credit programs to favored state-owned companies and not
conducive to accountability and transparency. The final report prepared by consultants was intensively
discussed by both entity governments and EI and finally agreed to. It was an essential input into the
preparation of the SOSAC II reform program in the employment institute field, as well as into the Second


                                                      - 4 -

Employment Support Project which were approved by the World Bank Board in June 2004.
The recommendations of the consultants report have been accepted and are being introduced in both entity
Employment Institutes starting with revised internal procedures to respond to the shortcomings determined
by the audits. A new rulebook of the Use of Funds has been published in RS Official Gazette and
Instructions on Enforcing Internal Controls within the Institute were issued in April 2003, while the FBH
prepared an action plan for reforming business practices which directly builds on the special review's
recommendations. In addition, in the FBH cantonal Employment Institutes have now been established in
each canton with a clear recognition of the role of the Federation Employment Institute.
In addition, the BH Council of Ministers abolished the former BH Employment Bureau and established a
small Employment Agency at the State level which is to help coordinate labor market statistics between the
two Entities and represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in international labor relations.

Sub-component 1c. The objective of this component was to support the development of a Social Protection
Expenditure Strategy as part of the overall medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) papers.
Across the social sectors, policy formulation was underdeveloped and uncoordinated, with many
responsibilities devolved to cantonal and municipal levels. The result was a fragmented approach to basic
expenditure planning and limited expenditure prioritization.
To improve the situation, various actors of the social protection system were brought together in policy and
budgetary discussions with strong participation of relevant social sector Ministries, the MOF, veterans'
administrations and employment institutes. The process started with social protection expenditure
framework preparation in 2000 that became a key document for planning the 2001 budget. The SOTAC
activities continued to support the development of a medium-term budget framework and sectoral MTEF to
utilize the given resources more effectively to achieve the stated objectives. Specifically this was achieved
by a prioritizing and the re-allocating resources appropriately.

The main outputs of this sub-component were:
l a review of the existing procedures for allocation of financial resources for different social protection
     institutions and programs across all levels of Government,
l training seminars to ensure that the process of medium-term budget preparation is adequately
     institutionalized,
l a draft medium-term budget expenditure framework developed through an intensive consultation
     process - roundtable discussions, workshops and meetings with officials representing national and
     sub-national level institutions in both Entities,
l a framework and methodology with clear guidelines for further social protection expenditure planning.


The final report prepared by consultants included detailed explanation of MTEF, its aims and purpose,
linkages between the MTEF and the Medium Term Development Strategy/the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP), as well as the SP priorities and financing sources consistent with the objectives and
priorities of the PRSP. As a result of the SOTAC, the medium term Social Protection Expenditure
Framework 2004-2006 will provide input to the MTEF for 2005-07 which is currently being prepared by
government based on report recommendations.

Sub-component 1d. The main objective of this component was to provide technical assistance in all areas
of labor relations framework, including labor legislation. The technical assistance was to be done under the
umbrella contract with the ILO. The terms of reference, request for proposals and contract were prepared
and delivered to the ILO at the end of 2003. Due to the reluctance of the International Labor Organization
to contract with the Government for the proposed content, within the timeframe and the limited time before
the closing of the project, the decision was taken to cancel the planned activities. The resources were
reallocated to the CSW/NGO component.


                                                      - 5 -

Sub-component 1e. The main objective of this sub-component was to support the design and
implementation of series of LSMS and LFS, mainly through training. Some funds from this component
were used to finance the study tour for the employees of the Statistics Institutes to familiarize them with the
international social statistics practices.
Several other donors were providing support to various statistical institutions in BH and with quite limited
human capacity in statistical institutions, additional technical assistance would not give the desired results.
Therefore, the SOTAC working group decided to reallocate the remaining funds to the NGO Innovation
Fund component.

This component is rated as satisfactory (S).

Component 2. Social Protection Strengthening and Public Information.

The main objective of this component was to support measures that would strengthen the institutional
capacity to implement social policies and provide resources to support innovative approaches to social
service delivery. This component was comprised of 4 sub-components: (a) functional reviews of social
protection in both entities; (b) public information campaign on social protection and labor markets reforms;
(c) client registries for the Center of Social Work and (d) NGO/CSW innovative fund.

Sub-component 2a. The main objective of this sub-component was to review existing roles and
responsibilities across the social protection sector and identify the need for re-organization of social
protection tasks spread across the various social sector Ministries as well as key skills development needs.
The functional review got off to a slow start and its preparation was heavily delayed for quality reasons of
the product. The final report, while providing useful information, does not provide as solid a set of
recommendations as had been anticipated.

Sub-component 2b. The main objective of this sub-component was to raise public awareness and
understanding of the key objectives and principles of the social protection and labor reform process.
The population in BH were generally aware of the social reforms but there was a high degree of cynicism
about the reform process. There was a broad agreement that reforms are necessary since many in need were
not receiving anything or enough and the system was often abused. People also felt that there needs to be a
strong and genuine dialogue with the politicians and professionals about the reform.

The main output of this sub-component was a Public Information Campaign "Forty Days of Dialogue" that
was designed and developed through series discussions and focus groups, including special training for key
spokespersons in each entity. The campaign was implemented simultaneously in both entities from May 7-
June 15, 2003.
Highlights of the campaign included:
l 33 Community Forum events held across the whole country;
l production of 1,000 posters and 60, 000 leaflets;
l    regular appearances on TV and radio news and discussion programs;
l "Question of the Day " in newspapers and substantial press coverage during the campaign.


The campaign was a success throughout the BH but especially in RS, where the Government was better
prepared for implementation of an public information campaign and more counterparts were available to
participate. The PIC has been closely coordinated with the public information campaign (PIC) for the
PRSP process to ensure that messages are consistent and consultative for both the PRSP and social
protection agenda.


                                                      - 6 -

The project also produced Guidelines for the Development of Future Public Information Campaigns on
Social and Labor Reforms, which set out the recommended steps to plan, develop and implement future
campaigns.
The developed Guidelines will serve as basis in strengthening the capacity of the social protection
ministries to communicate the reform process that has been planned under the SOSAC II.

Sub-component 2c. The main objective of this sub-component was to develop a computer database of
social welfare benefits, to establish horizontal and vertical communication within the social welfare system
and to have household data easily available to identify potential problems in the system and to be able to
make necessary adjustments.
The activities of this sub-component aimed to change the existing system of welfare client registration.
There had been several scattered pilot projects exploring ways to establish a system of client administration
registries in both entities but none of them materialized in a fully functioning system cutting across all the
welfare system clients throughout the country. The CSWs predominantly used paper files in their daily
work.
The respective ministries in both entities were interested in developing a standardized database that would
provide reliable data on welfare system beneficiaries and allow policy makers to easily access the
information and make informed policy decisions. The staff of the CSW was interested in receiving a
user­friendly system that would reduce the time spent on administrative work and increase the time spent
directly with the clients.
As a result of activities financed by this sub-component a unique country wide database of the social
welfare system clients was developed. The new system will also provide for the necessary linkages between
a CSW and the central level authorities (including cantonal level authorities in FBH). It also foresees the
potential linkages with client registries of other social service-providing institutions.
During the design process there was close cooperation among officials of the entity governments (Ministry
of Labor and Social Protection in FBH and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in RS), municipal
CSW staff and a company hired to design and install the centralized database. The CSW staff was directly
involved and consulted with throughout the design process. While the implementation of this
sub-component was suffering from significant delay due to a slowly emerging agreement between the
entities on the specification and set-up for the database, the local company selected for this task was able to
deliver the system that is installed in all centers for social work. The resources of this sub-component were
used to upgrade the information technology necessary to run the new database at a central and local level
(93 locations in FBH and 63 locations in RS were equipped to run the new client database) and the data
input process will be finalized by the end of 2004.
The further practical implementation of a new system is being supported by the SOSAC II program for the
purpose of which both Entities agreed to introduce operational manuals to be used in all CSW. The RS
adopted the respective regulations in September 2004.

There was also a training program implemented throughout the country that included
administrative/managerial training and functional training for entity, cantonal and regional and local level
professionals and designed to target specific needs of each group of system users (at least 2 staff from
every CSW were attending the training).
The training program was extensive and slightly rushed. Therefore, maintenance and continued
development of the database will require further needs assessment and staff training.

Sub-component 2d. The objective of this assignment was to support innovative collaboration pilot projects
between local NGOs and Centers for Social Work. This had to be accomplished by financing the delivery
of social services that have not been adequately covered by municipal social assistance institutions.




                                                        - 7 -

Problems associated with the delivery of services at the local level cannot be isolated from the problems
associated with the system as a whole. In addition to poor targeting procedures and low standards of
professionalism among social workers, the municipalities, NGOs and private sector suffered from a very
poor working relationship.
NGO, both international and local, individual beneficiaries, religious institutions and the private sector are
potential partners with the public sector in social service delivery and, taking into account the important
role NGOs have had in providing services to the most vulnerable in BH, the resources of this
sub-component were directed to develop this partnership.

The Innovation Fund was established and during the SOTAC lifetime a total of 53 projects were financed.
The project proposals had to be supported by the local CSW and they had to target the most vulnerable
groups of population. As a result of this sub, previously non-existent and innovative social services were
developed for beneficiaries of the welfare system, particularly for the children and elderly with special
needs.

The results of NGOs work financed by the Innovation fund were assessed by an outside reviewer as very
encouraging. The main findings of the assessment are:
l with very limited resources the project succeeded to establish several new and innovative social
    services;
l innovations brought new beneficiaries and new services to the social security system;
l real linkages and cooperation between CSW and NGOs was established during the project
    implementation;
l the implementation of this project helped CSW to recognize the importance and capacity NGOs have in
    providing social services to those in need;
l there is a large potential to continue with similar innovative activities across the country.


As a result of the activities financed by the Innovative fund, some NGOs and CSW have established a
longer term cooperation - municipalities of Trebinje and Prijedor in RS decided to include the services
provided by NGOs into their budgets for future financing. New social welfare legislation prepared with
SOSACII support is planned to include provisions on the role of third sector organizations and the private
sector in social services provision.

This component is rated as satisfactory (S).



Component 3. Project Implementation Component

The project implementation component supported activities cotributing to project management,
procurement and financial management. These functions were contracted out to the existing PIUs (DEF in
RS and PELRP in FBH) due to the small size of the project and because the SOTAC had the same
counterpart Ministries. Although the PIU staff had experience in working with other WB projects, the
procurement of consultants turned out to be a challenge, in particular the QCBS procedures. As a result,
the procurement of technical assistance for major studies experienced delays.
Overall the project was managed well, all the financial and procurement procedures were followed
throughout the project implementation period. All project audit reports were delivered on time and provided
unqualified opinions.
It should be mentioned that during the project implementation process, PIUs in both entities developed a
close cooperation as most of project components required joint efforts in procuring consultant services.
This led to a good deal of mutual learning during the SOTAC implementation.


                                                      - 8 -

This component is rated as satisfactory (S).




4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has to be assessed together with the reform program implemented
under SOSAC and the program foreseen under SOSAC II. Activities financed by SOTAC contributed to an
improved legislative basis and institutional framework in both entities. The outcomes can be summarized as
follows:

   l The process of preparing a draft medium-term budget expenditure framework brought together
         various actors of the social protection system through an intensive consultation process -
         roundtable discussions, workshops and meetings with officials representing national and
         sub-national level institutions, thus establishing a mechanism for further development of a
         medium-term budget framework and sectoral MTEF. Training seminars were organized to ensure
         that the process of medium-term budget preparation is adequately institutionalized.
   l The project facilitated the restructuring of employment institutes and improvement of procedures
         and practices used by the employment institutes.
   l Standard CSW client registry system has been developed in both entities and the database will be
         completed by the end of 2004. The database will provide information about welfare system clients
         that is comparable across both entities to achieve social assistance resource pooling and better
         targeting. There was extensive training program developed and delivered for the users of the
         database.
   l NGO/CSW Innovation component established a model for cooperation between NGOs and CSW
         that provided new and innovative services to welfare system beneficiaries that has been accepted
         for continued practice in some municipalities.

The institutional development impact from project components that were implemented at a local level
(CSW, Innovative fund financed projects) could be rated as substantial, but impact on central level
institutions has been modest. This assessment is based on the relative amount of resources spent for these
assignments and the likelihood of sustainability if the SOTAC would be a self-standing operation.

The overall institutional development impact is rated as modest (M).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the project was delayed due to the changes in the governments after parliamentary
elections in 2000 (parliamentary ratification was necessary for the SOTAC effectiveness). A complicated
government organizational structure and lengthy approval procedure for the foreign borrowing delayed the
project effectiveness date.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                       - 9 -

There was a significant turnover in government officials involved in coordinating SOTAC that resulted in
not adequate guidance in procuring the technical assistance and guiding the implementation process of it.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIUs in both entities were previously involved in implementing Bank projects. At the same time, their
experience with procedures necessary to procure technical assistance was very limited. In addition, the
government was changing its attitude towards the reforms proposed by the SOSAC II. This led to slow
project start-up after credit effectiveness. After the changes of the government in 2002 there was a strong
commitment to proceed with the reform program and the SOTAC. The project implementation units were
adequately staffed and were able implement project activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$ 3.88 million equivalent at appraisal, with the IDA credit of
US$ 3.55 million, and a Government contribution of US$ 0.33 million. The credit agreement was extended
once in June 2003 until June 30, 2004. By the end of the project US$ 3.27 million were disbursed.
The Government of United Kingdom of Great Britain provide grant funds of GBP 162,680 (US$ 298,242)
to assist in preparing a functional review of social protection in both entities. The grant was extended twice
- first to February 27, 2003 and then to June 30, 2004. By the project closing date US$ 240,000 of DFID
grant were disbursed.
The bulk of the project resources (around 87 %) financed technical assistance.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as Likely.

The main reason for the rating is a close linkage between the SOTAC and the SOSAC II and SESP
operations. The technical assistance funded under the SOTAC provided essential input to the preparation of
the SOSACII and SESP social and employment policy reform agenda. The policy link to SOSAC II was
crucial in focusing government's attention on the technical assistance needs to prepare and implement the
key reform recommendations. The SOTAC was also instrumental in providing continuity in social
protection policy dialogue as the original sequence in design of two adjustment operations was interrupted
for about 1.5 years. It should be noted that substantial additional donor assistance to BIH has been
contributing to the sustainability of the activities supported under the SOSACs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition to regular operations is in place. The strengthening of the institutional and budgetary
mechanisms for social protection policies are being continued through the SOSAC II program. Some of the
recommendations from the EI assessment are being implemented with SOSACII and SESP support,
although they met significant resistance in the beginning. CSW are beginning to implement the
recommendation of the consultant reports in reorganizing the administration and service delivery in the
centers of social work. Client registries have been set up in all the social work units at the municipal level,
staff has been trained and database will be fully operational by the end of 2004.




                                                       - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared in a very short time to respond to the needs for technical assistance in support of
the SOSAC operations.The possibility to use IDA resources was an important reason for such a rush
preparation.The project team was closely coordinating with the Government counterparts in assessing the
needs. The fact that the SOSAC team leader was also leading the design of the SOTAC helped to align the
proposed policy reforms with the TA necessary to pave the way for these reforms. Bank performance
during preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision is rated as satisfactory, although there was no continuity in project management. The task
team leader had to balance several tasks in the early stages of the project. Furthermore, the change of the
task team leader in the middle of the project implementation reduced coordination between activities of the
SOTAC and the policy agenda being prepared under the SOSAC II.
It was that the flexibility of the Bank staff to modify the project according to the changing situation ensured
that the project funds are used for productive purposes and were almost fully disbursed. More intensive
supervision of project implementation practicalities by the new task team leader contributed to realize the
activities planned. The supervision benefitted significantly from the presence of the social protection
specialist based in Sarajevo country office.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the project from the Borrower's side is assessed as satisfactory. The initial design of the
social policy reforms was developed by an inter-entity stakeholder workshop in Sarajevo in December
1999, which included officials from both entities, donors, local and international NGOs and representatives
of civil society. The need for institutional strengthening to make the social protection reforms sustainable
was indicated by local stakeholders and this led to the idea of SOTAC as a companion TA credit for the
SOSAC-supported policy agenda. The limited preparation time reduced Borrowers' active involvement in
project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance during the project implementation has been satisfactory. Political changes in
BH led to some delays in project processing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
There were two implementing agencies for the SOTAC project : Ministry of Labor, Social Policy, Refugees
and Displaced Persons in FBH and Ministry of Labor and Veterans' Affairs and Ministry of Health and
Social Welfare in RS. The linkage between the SOTAC financed technical assistance and the
implementation of the policy agenda supported by SOSAC and SOSAC II was not completely clear to all
borrower institutions, which led to the fact that relevant Ministries in both entities provided insufficient
direction for the technical assistance components to be procured and implemented. The new Governments
entering office in late 2002 appointed working groups to oversee the implementation of the SOTAC TA
activities. Although the interaction between the teams implementing the TA activities and the relevant
Ministries improved, the Government officials' participation was limited to providing information and data
and occasionally commenting on the final reports. This reduced the overall impact of the TA provided.



                                                      - 11 -

However, the PIU teams in both entities were professional in carrying out their duties. It should be noted
that changes in the Government put greater demands on PIU staff in briefing new government officials on
the SOTAC goals and implementation process.
The implementing agency's performance is considered satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. The pairing of a TA operation with an adjustment lending is an excellent combination and can lead to the
successful implementation of difficult reform program. It helps the counterparts to achieve the policy
objectives of adjustment program with higher quality and better assurance for sustainability.

2. If technical assistance projects like SOTAC are being designed as a companion project to a structural
adjustment operation it is important to ensure that the teams working on both operations are almost
identical or, at least, are led by the same task team leader. This arrangement will provide necessary
continuity.

3. In low-capacity environments focusing TA on direct capacity building may produce more sustainable
impact. SOTAC technical assistance consisted mainly of international consultant teams analyzing and
advising on discrete issues and areas of social protection. Being new to a complex and challenging country
context, they spent significant time simply filling in their own knowledge gaps before they could make a
substantive contribution. While stakeholder workshops formed part of the assignments and some teams
worked closely with the authorities, the final outputs were large reports which may not be fully digested by
the authorities without further assistance. Rather, technical assistance may be more effective if it is focused
on the process of advising policy makers on certain aspects of the social protection reform agenda (for
example social protection expenditure planning), possibly through teams staying in the country for
extended periods of time and being stationed in line Ministries.

4. Limited procurement options might result in non-delivery of planned technical assistance assignments
that are important for the country's development agenda. In particular, the sole source procurement of ILO
services did not allow enough flexibility to the Borrower in acquiring the necessary technical assistance in
time. Although, the intention of such an arrangement might have seemed reasonable at the project design
stage (the ILO had experience and knowledge of the country), in the SOTAC implementation it led to an
impasse. A different procurement method could have given better results.

5. A capacity building component for implementation should be built into the project, in those cases when
there is not enough time to do so in the preparation phase of the project. Otherwise unnecessary delays and
sequencing issues cannot be avoided, as occurred in this technical assistance project.

6. NGOs can be a driving force in the development of innovative projects and deliver significant results for
relatively small amounts of funding, when those NGOs are guided by capable and open-minded CSW
management. These CSW continue to attract funding from other donors, thereby assuring sustainability of
new models to deliver social services at a local level.




                                                      - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Both entities have reviewed and agreed with the ICR. A summary of the detailed Borrower's contributions
to the ICR is attached in Annex 8, one each for FBH and RS.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                  - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved coordination in SP policy           Not rated.                         Both Governments approved social protection
development, leading to more coherent and                                       expenditure strategies for the period
consistent policies which are fiscally                                          2001-2003 as part of the Budget Framework
sustainable.                                                                    Paper in 2000. Medium-term budget
                                                                                expenditure framework, including SPES is
                                                                                being developed for 2005-2007.

Labor legislation which is more flexible.    Not rated.                         Due to the fact that the SOTAC resources
                                                                                allocated for labor legislation TA were not
                                                                                used for this activity, the outcome achieved is
                                                                                a result of reform program under SOSAC.
                                                                                Legal changes were implemented that
                                                                                comprise improvement in the framework
                                                                                governing labor relations.The new laws are
                                                                                closely harmonized across both Entities that
                                                                                contributes to the creation of a single
                                                                                economic space. SOSAC II agenda will
                                                                                support the practical implementation of the
                                                                                legislated policies.
An improved social assistance system in      Not rated.                         Social welfare system still suffers from a
place.                                                                          separation of policymaking and financing
                                                                                responsibilities. Several legislative activities
                                                                                have been taken regarding civil victims of war
                                                                                in FBH, more predictable financing of social
                                                                                welfare benefits by municipalities in RS.
                                                                                Client registries have been developed in
                                                                                CSW across the country that will provide
                                                                                more reliable information for further
                                                                                improvements in social assistance system.
                                                                                SOSAC II agenda will support further
                                                                                improvement of the social assistance system
                                                                                both at all levels of governemnt.
Capacity development in statistical agencies Not rated.                         With support from the Bank and other
to carry out representative household surveys                                   donors, the Statistical Institutes have made
                                                                                progress in implementing representative
                                                                                household survey. The SOTAC contribution
                                                                                to the capacity building was limited to study
                                                                                tours. Capacity building is continuing through
                                                                                the activities planned under SOSAC II and
                                                                                support of other donors but plans have to be
                                                                                made to sustain the capacity after donor
                                                                                programs are over.


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Approved SP strategies for 2001-2004.        Not rated.                         Both Governments approved SP Strategies:
                                                                                Social Protection Development Strategy,
                                                                                November 2000 for RS; Social Protection
                                                                                Development Strategy for FBH, October
                                                                                2000. More detailed social welfare strategies
                                                                                have also been approved: Social Welfare
                                                                                Strategy for FBH, May 2002 and Program of
                                                                                Social Welfare Transformation in the RS,
                                                                                April 2002.
SP expenditure Strategies for each budget    Not rated.                         Both Government approved social protection
year.                                                                           expenditure strategies for the period
                                                                                2001-2003 as part of the Budget Framework
                                                                                Paper in 2000. Medium-term budget
                                                                                expenditure framework, including SPES is




                                                             - 14 -

                                                                      being developed for 2005-2007.
Passage of amendments to key labor              Not rated.            Amendments to the Labor Law passed in
legislation in each entity which promotes                             FBH, August 2000; New Labor Law passed
better private sector enabling environment                            in RS, October 2000. Laws were harmonized
                                                                      across both Entities. The technical
                                                                      assistance planned within the SOTAC was
                                                                      not provided due to disagreement with the
                                                                      ILO.
Development of effective public                 Not rated.            The Public information campaign "40 Days of
information/consultation programs on social                           Dialogue" implemented in 2003 continued the
policy reforms, and carrying out public                               dialogue with civil society on social policy.
information campaigns.                                                The design of the campaign and its
                                                                      implementation was based on close
                                                                      consultation with various stakeholders and
                                                                      community assessment of public
                                                                      understanding of social policy reforms
                                                                      carried out in 2002-2003.


Staff trained in different elements of project. Not rated.            Two study tours were organized, including
                                                                      training for social protection staff from
                                                                      different levels of organization and study tour
                                                                      for the staff of Statistical institutions.
                                                                      Users of welfare system database , including
                                                                      CSW staff, received basic training in using
                                                                      and monitoring the system (the total number
                                                                      of trainees was almost 500).
Centers for Social Work which are operating Not rated.                Standard client registry system has been
standard client systems by end of the project                         developed in both entities. CSW staff have
period.                                                               received basic training and have started to
                                                                      input data on welfare system beneficiaries.
                                                                      The database will be completed (with all the
                                                                      current beneficiaries in the system) by the
                                                                      end of 2004.
Adoption of reforms to Entity SP laws to        Not rated.            Amendments to the Law on Social Protection
reflect greater resource pooling and                                  in RS passed. Amendments to the Law on
equalization in social assistance.                                    Social Protection of Civil Victims of War and
                                                                      Protection of Families with Children
                                                                      submitted to the Parliament.
Sample frame agreed and LFS and LSMS            Not rated.            The sample frame was agreed and used for
carried out and data freely available for                             the LSMS in 2001. The analysis was
analysis.                                                             continued through household panel survey
                                                                      series in 2001, 2002 and 2003. The results
                                                                      of the series were publicly presented in
                                                                      September 2004.

1End of project
The assessment of performance indicators reflects outcomes achieved under SOTAC and SOSAC tandem.




                                                            - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                                US$ million         US$ million
1. Social Protection Policy                                           1.73                 1.30              75.14
2. Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public           1.95                 2.28            116.92
Information
3. Project Implementation                                             0.20                 0.15                 75

Total Baseline Cost                                                   3.88                 3.73
                           Total Project Costs                        3.88                 3.73
                   Total Financing Required                           3.88                 3.73


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                    2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                               0.00              0.00             0.00               0.00           0.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00              0.00             0.30               0.00           0.30
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)          (0.30)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00             3.43               0.00           3.43
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (3.15)            (0.00)          (3.15)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.15               0.00           0.15
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)          (0.10)
   Total                               0.00              0.00             3.88               0.00           3.88
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)            (3.55)            (0.00)          (3.55)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                   2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00           0.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00              0.00             0.33              0.00           0.33
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.33)            (0.00)          (0.33)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00             3.03              0.24           3.27
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.85)            (0.00)          (2.85)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.13              0.00           0.13
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.09)            (0.00)          (0.09)
   Total                               0.00              0.00             3.49              0.24           3.73
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.27)            (0.00)          (3.27)

  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.



                                                     - 16 -

     1/


     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Social Protection Policy    1.55          0.18                     1.23         0.07                  79.4      38.9
2. Social Protection           1.85          0.10                     1.94         0.10       0.24       104.9    100.0
Institutional Strengthening
and Public Information
3. Project Implementation      0.15          0.05                     0.10         0.05                  66.7     100.0




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               07/28/2000                4    PROGRAM TEAM
                                              LEADER (1); LABOR
                                              ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                              PROTECTION
                                              SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                              SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               09/01/2000                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                              (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                              SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                              SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               09/29/2000                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                              (1); LEGAL COUNSEL (1); SR.
                                              DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                              (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); PROCUREMENT
                                              ADVISOR (1)

 Supervision
               06/17/2001                 3   PROGRAM TEAM                          S               S
                                              LEADER (1); LABOR
                                              ECONOMIST (1); HD
                                              ECONOMIST (1)
               12/06/2002                 3   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                              (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                              SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                              (1)
               02/27/2003                 1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
               05/01/2003                 1   TASK LEADER (1)
               01/30/2004                 4   TASK LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT (2);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               10/05/2004                1     SR. SOCIAL                           S               S
                                               PROTECTION
                                               SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)



                                               - 19 -

 Appraisal/Negotiation                           0.3                           0.3
 Supervision                                    58.0                         152.3
 ICR                                             4.6                          15.4
 Total                                          62.9                         168.0
Note: SOTAC, being a companion TA credit to SOSAC, was prepared in parallel with SOSAC by the same TTL.
Hence, preparation cost for SOTAC was largely absorbed by SOSAC preparation budget. The actual cost for
Appraisal/Negotiation for SOSAC is 86.62 staff weeks/US$263,706.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document No. 20887-BIH dated November 8, 2000.
 2. Country Assistance Strategy Report No. IDA/R2000-60 dated May 18, 2000.
 3. Country Assistance Strategy Report No. 29196-BA dated August 12, 2004.
 4. Preparation/Appraisal/Supervision Aide-Memoires.
 5. Project Status Reports.
 6. IDA Program Document for a Proposed Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit No. P7536 - BH
dated May 17, 2004.
 7. Review and Assesment of Innovations, ref BA-SOTAC-CQ-051-S-04-BOS3439, June 2004.
 8. Project Operational Manual.
 9. Labor and Social Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Living in BiH. Panel Study Final Report, Wave 3,
September 2004.
10. Functional review of Social Protection in Bosnia and Hercegovina, IBF International Consulting, ref
TAC/BA-SOTAC-RFP-01-CS-01BOS3439-FR, April 2004.
11. Implementation of a Public Information Campaign - Labor and Social Protection, Final Report,
Bearing Point, Inc., BA-SOTAC-RFP-03-CS-01 -BOS3439, December 2003.
12. Establishing of the Client Database/Registry for Centers for Social Work (CSW) and Training of the
CSW staff, Final Report, Konsorcij LACOOC, BA-SOTAC-RFP ­ 012 ­ CS ­ 03 ­ BOS3439.
13. Expenditure Strategy for Social Protection, Final Report, Progeco S.r.l, June 2004.
14. Social Asistance and Disability Programs in Bosnia-Herzegovina, BOS - 3439, September 2003.




                                                  - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

                           Annex 8A: Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
                               (Summary of Comments submitted by the PIU)

I         PROJECT COMPONENTS

Project Component 1: Social Protection Policy

Subcomponent 1A: Social assistance technical assistance & Technical Assistance on disability programs
The objectives of the Social Welfare and Child Protection assignments were assisting in the development of
policy and reform options. The objectives of the Disabilities Programs assignments were to develop proposals for
reform of disability programs in BiH which would increase their impact on the most disabled.

Sub Component 1A: Conclusion
The social sector ministries and public institutions that were included in the assignment are as follows: FBiH
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy; Federation Ministry of Veterans' and Disabled Soldiers' Affairs; Pension and
Invalid Fund FBiH; etc.

A consulting firm IOS PARTNERS, Australia was recruited for the assignments. The assignments was carried out
by a team of specialists (a fiscal and decentralization team; a social services team; an administration and legal
team; disability team), headed by a team leader who was a social policy expert and took responsibility for overall
policy recommendations.

All developed reports were submitted to the relevant Ministries and the World Bank in one of the major languages
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and English. All reports with recommendations were approved and accepted by FBiH
Government SOTAC working group, FBiH Ministry of Labor and Social Policy; Federation Ministry of Veterans'
and Disabled Soldiers' Affairs and they will be used in further planning of policy and reform options.

Federal Ministry for Labor and Social Policy is currently developing the Law on Employment and professional
rehabilitation of people with disabilities. It will be launched in Parliament procedure in accordance with the Law
on State Service in the FBiH, and relating applicable regulations.

Subcomponent 1B:. Special reviews of Employment Institutes
Objectives of this assignment were to conduct an independent audit of the financial position and special review
of the operations of the Employment Institutes in FBH and RS: State Employment Institute, Federal Employment
Institute in Sarajevo, Employment Institute in Mostar and Employment Institute of Republika Srpska.

Sub Component 1B: Conclusion
A consulting firm PriceWaterHouse Coopers, Macedonia, was recruited for the assignments. The consultants
worked with the Employment Institutes and they had to be provided with access to all legal documents,
correspondence, and any other information associated with the work of the Employment Institutes and deemed
necessary by the consultants.

All developed reports were submitted to the FBiH Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the World Bank in one
of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and English. All reports with recommendations were approved
and accepted by FBiH Government SOTAC working group; the FBiH Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and they
will be used in further planning of policy and reform options.

With exception of the fact that Audit report was not published in local press (it should to be according to the
international standards), Special review recommendations are accepted and currently being applied: State Agency
for employment is founded; A bill law on mediation in employment is developed; New "Second Employment
Support Project" will be launched with objective to reform Employment Institutes, especially in Scope of job
creation activities, employment programs and institutional strengthening.

Subcomponent 1C: Social Protection Expenditure Strategy
Objectives of this assignment was to assist the Government in developing the capacity within the social protection
related ministries, in conjunction with the ministries of finance to: (i) provide a realistic resource framework



                                                         - 24 -

within which ministries can plan their sector programs; (ii) link resource allocations to sector policies and
program; and (iii) allow ministries to plan their expenditure programs over the medium-term.

Sub Component 1C: Conclusion
A consulting firm PROGECO, Italy, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried out in close
coordination with the relevant ministries and state, entity and sub-entity level and it take into account the human
resource and financing constraints in BiH. The assignment was built on the previous Budget Framework Paper
exercise, and was using the recent entity medium term expenditure strategy and PRSP as a base for the
development of the sectoral expenditure strategy. All developed reports were submitted to the FBiH Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy and the World Bank in one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
English. All reports with recommendations were approved and accepted by FBiH Government SOTAC working
group; the FBiH Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and they will be used in further planning of policy and reform
options.

Mid-term expenditures strategy for 2005 ­ 2007 anticipates: expenses for civil victims of war from federal budget
in 2005; expenses for children's allowance from federal budget in 2006;

Expenses for poorest in 2007 are not anticipated yet, sources of financing are to be defined;

On the basis of the medium term budget expenditure framework, Federal Ministry for Labour and Social Policy
will develop Sectoral medium term budget expenditure framework, for 2005 ­ 2007, on the basis of the already
agreed priorities, and with cooperation of Ministry of Finance.

Sub Component 1D: Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance ­ Objectives of the Assignment
and Conclusion
Review of Existing Labor Market Information. The Consultant should to identify all labor market information
currently available and to propose a New Labor Market Information System based on the outcomes of those
activities; the Consultant should propose a framework for a labor market information system that would cover all
three levels of government; Review of Existing Inspection Requirements. The consultant should identify the need
for inspections arising out of the Labor Laws and the laws governing the operations of the employment services in
both Entities. Based on the outcomes, the consultant should propose the most appropriate form for the labor
inspection services in the two Entities.

Originally, this sub-component was planed in a procurement way to do a sole-source contract with ILO, based on
the understanding that ILO can deliver this task. In that way TOR, RFP and Contract were prepared and delivered
to ILO. ILO Budapest Office on 15th December 2003 was regretting to inform us that the ILO was not in a position
to accept the request for proposals under the present terms and conditions.

Since the project was closed on June 30, 2004, and all work had to be procured, completed and invoiced by that
date, WB and PIU were faced with time constrains for restarting new procurement on this. This sub-component
had to be canceled.

Sub Component 1E: Social Statistics ­ Objectives of the Assignment and Conclusion
Objective was technical assistance in Social Statistics area, especially in providing assistance for a Living
Standards Measurement Study Survey (LSMS), and additional surveys like labor force survey (LFS). The SOTAC
should focused technical support to help in designing and implementing the surveys. Federal Office of Statistics
expressed interest to get assistance through the procurement of new equipment (goods) what was not pre-defined in
PAD and Credit agreement.

Previous established objectives in this area were partially accomplished.       Technical assistance was provided
through the segment of education. Study tour to Washington for the Federal Office of Statistics employees was
organized, and they had opportunity to learn about international practice in the Social Statistic areas.

Based on the suggestions from the SOTAC working group, during the July supervision mission, agreement was
reached to reallocate the resources from this sub-component to the database component.                   The mission
recommended that any remainder should to be reallocated to the CSW-NGO innovation.

Project Component 2: Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public Information

Sub-Component 2A: Functional Review of Social Protection Sector



                                                        - 25 -

The objective of the assignment was to assist the Government in aligning the functions and structure of the public
sector to promote overall coherence in the social protection system, including through improved interaction with
NGOs and the general public.

Sub Component 2A: Conclusion
A consulting firm IBF, Belgium, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried out in close
coordination with the relevant ministries and state, entity and sub-entity level. The advisors closely coordinated
their work with the 2 DFID-managed consultants and their focus was on municipal level public structures (making
a proper division of work at local level and avoiding any duplication within the scope of assignment). The advisors
also coordinated work with other civil service reform projects. All developed reports were submitted to the FBiH
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the World Bank in one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and English. All reports with recommendations were approved and accepted by FBiH Government SOTAC
working group; the FBiH Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and they will be used in further planning of policy
and reform options.

On January 1st, 2003 - the joint Federal Ministry has been functionally divided to the Federal Ministry of Labor
and Social policy and the Federal Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees.

Other recommendations will be applied in accordance with the Law on State Service in the Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and relating applicable regulations.

Sub-Component 2B: Implementation of a Public Information Campaign
The objective of the assignment: The public information campaign was aimed at raising public awareness and
understanding of, and support for, the key issues, principles and objectives of the social protection and labor reform
process. Based on an assessment of the current public understanding and perception of the issues and reform
process, it had to communicate the current situation and constraints in the system, and explain the need for,
objectives and likely outcomes of reforms to the general public in BiH. It was aimed to create reasonable
expectations of the reform process, and an atmosphere of public transparency. The public information campaign
was carried out in two stages.

Sub Component 2B: Conclusion
A consulting firm Bearing Point, USA, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried out in close
coordination with the relevant ministries and state, entity and sub-entity level (including public information staff in
any of the relevant ministries), as well as local media identified during the assignment. The campaign resulted
with development the Guidelines for future public campaigns.

All developed Reports and copies of all media material were submitted to the FBiH Ministry of Labour and Social
Policy and the World Bank in one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and English. All reports were
approved and accepted by FBiH Government SOTAC working group and the FBiH Ministry of Labour and Social
Policy.

The Public campaign "40 days of dialog" has been successfully implemented in numerous of municipalities,
cantons and both entities of BiH. Relevant representatives from different branches: social and children protection,
work and employment, displaced persons and refugees, health and education have been involved in
implementation of this campaign. It has been covered with relevant media materials, such as: radio and TV
broadcasting; special programs and short announcements; popular pamphlets, informative brochures, prospects,
posters, frequently asked questions and answers in press; etc.

Sub-Component 2C: Establishment of Client Registries for the Centers for Social Work & Procurement of
computer and other IT equipment
Objective of the Assignment was establishment a standardized client registry.

Sub Component 2 C: Conclusion
A consulting firm ­ Consortium LACOOC, BiH, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried
out in close coordination with the FBiH Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and sub-entity level (including
municipality CSWs).

All developed Reports were submitted to the FBiH Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the World Bank, in
one of the major languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and English. All reports with training material were



                                                        - 26 -

approved and accepted by FBiH Government SOTAC working group; the FBiH Ministry of Labour and Social
Policy. Centers for Social Work are operating standard client systems.

Currently, data on social protection beneficiaries are being inputting into Data Base, and it is expected that Data
Base will be completely operating by the end of 2004.

While considerable work has already been done on developing programs for client registries, there was a range of
needs in order to put the system in place, and to ensure that it is effective. After analyzing basic IT equipment that
had to be procured for CSWs, Cantonal and Entity level, the procurement of equipment was separated activity that
began during the first phase of the implementation of client registries.

Respecting available assets, Invitation for quotation was issued. Offers determined to be substantially responsive to
the technical specifications were evaluated by comparison of their prices by converting their CIP price to the KM
(national currency of the Purchaser) based on the selling exchange rate published by the Central Bank of Bosnia
and Herzegovina (Purchaser's country) on the date for submission of quotations. The award was made to the firm
Printex doo, Sarajevo, BiH, offering the lowest evaluated price and that meets the required standards of technical
and financial capabilities.

All procured equipment was successfully delivered and installed on 93 locations in FBiH. Goods procured are
covered by manufacturer's warranty for 12 months from the date of delivery to the Purchaser

Sub-Component SD: NGO/CSW Innovation Fund (including external revision)
Objective of the Assignments was to develop an effective welfare mix for services to the vulnerable population of
BiH.

The main findings are following:
·        With very limited amount of the financial resources project has succeeded to establish a lot of new social
services and to serve lot of different categories of social vulnerable people.
·        Innovative Fund was very effective and efficient tool for satisfying the needs of existing and new
categories of social vulnerable people covering the territory and services which have not been covered.
·        Innovations brought new beneficiaries and new services in social security net.
·        All innovations and project activities under innovations where implemented according the requested rules
and demanded procedures on transparent and accountable way.
·        Real links and co-operation between the CSWs and NGOs was established through project realization.
·        NGOs which took a part in project realization mainly profile themselves as professional social services
providers, capable to recognize the real needs of the population and to define new underserved beneficiary groups,
and to implement innovative services on efficient and effective way.
·        Implementation of this project put the CSWs in position to recognize the importance and capability of the
NGO sector to contribute in servicing growing needs in social sector.
·        Review shows that only two relatively weak point of project implementation where: weak role of the CSW
defined by project design (the CSWs were more involved in project implementation then that was requested) and
monitoring on non regular bases (in other hand assessment shows that monitoring was not crucial for success of
the innovations).
·        Review and assessment shows that there is a lot of potentials in new ideas, services and non or
underserved people for continuation of the innovative services all over the country
·        Innovation activities implemented under this sub component of SOTAC are completely in line with
development objectives and expected outcomes.

Sub-Component 2E: Study Tours
Objective of the Assignments was training for social protection staff at different levels in order to expose them
further to international practice in key areas where reforms are being designed or implemented. This involved
organizing two study tours within SOTAC: Study tour to Washington (for the Federal Office of Statistics
employees) and Study tour to Holland and Brussels (for the employees in social protection field).

II.      BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank performance during the Project preparation and during the Project supervision is rated highly Satisfactory.



                                                          - 27 -

The Project was regularly supervised by bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters and in the Country
Office in Sarajevo. Bank staff were in constant contacts with the PIU and provided close support for many different
aspects of project implementation, including financial issues and procurement. Communication was strong and
open. Overall Bank performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory. FBiH
Government nominated working group for SOTAC Project with representatives from FBiH Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy; Federation Ministry of Veterans and Disabled Soldiers Affairs and Federation and Ministry of
Finance. SOTAC working group was involved in all project activities: (i) all reports produced within the Project
were delivered to the working group on review, comments and approval; (ii) after approving reports, working
group wrote and signed it's Opinion on each report; (iii) reports were delivered to the FBiH Minister of Labor
and Social Policy, and in one case to the FBiH Minister of Veterans and Disabled Soldiers Affairs; (iv) Minister
reviewed and approved each report; (v) for Final reports on each activity, Minister wrote his Opinion, noticing
that all contracted tasks were accomplished, and that relevant ministry is obligated to prepare plan and program
for implementation of the recommendations; (vi) Minister's opinions together with the reports was delivered to
the FBiH government as information; Ministry of Labor and Social Policy also nominated members of the
Evaluation Comities for Consultant selection procedures, on regular basis. Those experts were involved in whole
process of procurement. FBiH PIU performance is rated Satisfactory. FBiH PIU procurement and financial
management were focused on Project implementation and establishing coordination between all partners in Project;
FBiH PIU performance in the SOTAC implementation could be divided into two phases, due to changes of
procurement staff in May 2003.


III      LESSONS LEARNED

Lessons learned could be divided into two groups: Functional (1-5) and Operational (6-9)

1.       Technical Assistance for Social Sector was of great significance for BiH;
    BiH has experienced continuing economic recovery since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in
    December 1995. Many people in BiH continue to have low standards of living, with high unemployment rate,
    a partial and unpredictable social safety net, and continued displacement of large numbers of people. While
    strengthened institutions and policies have contributed to macro stability, substantial fragility remained. Given
    relative economic and political stability in recent years, focus on the social sector reforms was crucial;
2.       Serious reform of social policy is a process which will take time and political commitment to accomplish,
but lesson learned is that FBiH Government is committed to the reform process;
3.       In order to improve the current policy in Social Sector and to address the current institutional problems in
social protection, a large spectrum of recommendations and analyses was produced within the SOTAC Project;
Objective is to carry out proposed reforms in essence, as well as formally by identifying institutions that will carry
out reforms;
4.       Over the medium term, we hope that the objectives of the Project will be accomplished more fully;
5.       Experiences from other transition countries are very important in reform process in BIH;
6.       The continued contribution of the World Bank was an essential part of SOTAC success;
7.       Government collaboration, commitment, political will, and full involvement in this kind of Technical
assistance Projects is crucial for project success;
8.       Ideally, time frame for implementation of Projects like SOTAC should be within mandate of only one
Government. In opposite, Project is faced with difficult circumstances;
9.       Good cooperation between two PIU's was of great importance for harmonization of reform process in two
Entities in BiH.




                                                        - 28 -

                                         Annex 8B: Republika Srpska
                               (Summary of Comments submitted by the PIU)

I.       PROJECT COMPONENTS

Project Component 1: Social Protection Policy

Sub-Component: Special Reviews of Employment Institutes
The objective of this assignment was to conduct an independent audit of the financial position and special review
of the operations of the Employment Institutes.

A consulting firm PriceWaterHouse Coopers, Macedonia, was recruited for the assignments. The consultants
worked with the Employment Institutes and they had to be provided with access to all legal documents,
correspondence, and any other information associated with the work of the Employment Institutes and deemed
necessary by the consultants. The report's recommendations were accepted and currently are being developed by
the Employment Institute. The new Regulation on using the funds was developed, the capacity of the institute was
increased; the capacity of evidences was increased. Many activities aimed to increase the level of employment were
started. New "Second Employment Support Project" will be launched with objective to reform Employment
Institutes, especially in Scope of job creation activities, employment programs and institutional strengthening.

Sub-Component: Technical assistance on disability program and child protection
A consulting firm IOS PARTNERS, Australia was recruited for the assignments. The assignments was carried out
by a team of specialists (a fiscal and decentralization team; a social services team; an administration and legal
team; disability team), headed by a team leader who was a social policy expert and took responsibility for overall
policy recommendations.

The following aspects of social protection were done:
·        The Fiscal and Decentralization Team had a lead role in assessing the effectiveness of the use of
resources for social assistance. The main role of the team was to look at the cost of social assistance, both
cash-benefits and services, at both the entity and municipal (cantonal) level. A report on the Social Welfare
Services and its Financing was prepared.
·        The Social Services Team had a technical role in analyzing and developing policy recommendations on
social services offered through the CSW and social welfare institutions. Within the CSW this included looking at
both, cash and other services offered such as counseling, and placement services. The team was examining three
interrelated areas: targeting methodologies and effectiveness for cash and service benefits; current social work
methodologies employed in the CSW; and, effectiveness of the balance between cash and services. A
comprehensive report on current social and child protection programs was produced.
·        The Administration and Legal Team had the technical role in analyzing administrative strengthening
needs related to social welfare reform. The broad focused on exploring the implications for administration based on
the recommendations from the decentralization and social service reform strategies developed in the first phase of
the consultancy. A report on consolidation of all relevant data on the network of CSW and social welfare
institutions was prepared.
·        Advisors on Disability .Objectives: development with local counterparts the proposals for reform of
disability programs which would increase their impact on the most disabled, and promote greater coordination and
efficiency in program delivery. The output of this assignment was an analyze of how each system currently
operates and their relationships to each other, development of reform options on programs and administration, and
the action plan for improving disability categorization and the administrative process.

According to the above mentioned, based on reports and recommendations many new regulations and laws are
produced:
·        in Official Gazette no. 115/03 was announced a "Regulation of categorization of persons with disabilities
in mental and physical growth", in Official Gazette no. 18/26.02.2004 was announced "Regulation on estimation
of ability of people who are in procedure of getting the rights from social protection".
·        Also based on recommendations from SOTAC reports, in Official Gazette no. 45/20.05.2004 was



                                                          - 29 -

announced a new Proposal of "Law on veterans' rights, war disables, and families of war fallen veterans", which
will regulate many issues such as: registration of people with disabilities, step by step increase of monthly payment;
Law on professional rehabilitation, enablement and employment of people with disabilities; and establishment of
Fund for rehabilitation and employment of disabled people.
·        In Official Gazette no. 46/04 was announced the "Law on protection of persons with mental disorders".
·        In the same Official Gazette was also announced the "Regulations for education of children with special
needs in primary and secondary schools".
·        In Official Gazette no. 27/04 were announced 4 manuals: for evidence and documentation of: adoption of
orphans, adopted children, children and parents users of social benefits, people under social care.
·        In Official Gazette no. 19/04 was announced a Decision on approval of Funds for institutions of social
protection".

Sub-Component: Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance
Review of Existing Labor Market Information. The Consultant should identify all labor market information
currently available and to propose a New Labor Market Information System based on the outcomes of those
activities; the Consultant should propose a framework for a labor market information system that would cover all
three levels of government; Review of Existing Inspection Requirements. The consultant should identify the need
for inspections arising out of the Labor Laws and the laws governing the operations of the employment services in
both Entities. Based on the outcomes, the consultant should propose the most appropriate form for the labor
inspection services in the two Entities.

Originally, this sub-component was planed in a procurement way to do a sole-source contract with ILO, based on
the understanding that ILO can deliver this task. In that way TOR, RFP and Contract were prepared and delivered
to ILO. ILO Budapest Office on 15th December 2003 was regretting to inform us that the ILO was not in a position
to accept the request for proposals under the present terms and conditions. Since the project was closed on June
30, 2004, and all work had to be procured, completed and invoiced by that date, WB and PIU were faced with time
constrains for restarting new procurement on this. This sub-component had to be canceled.

Sub-Component: Social Protection Expenditure Strategy
The objective of the assignment was to assist the Government in developing the capacity within the social
protection related ministries, in conjunction with the ministries of finance

A consulting firm PROGECO, Italy, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried out in close
coordination with the relevant ministries and state, entity and sub-entity level and it takes into account the human
resource and financing constraints in B&H. The assignment was built on the previous Budget Framework Paper
exercise, and was using the recent entity medium term expenditure strategy and PRSP as a base for the
development of the sectoral expenditure strategy.

Consultant carried out:
1.       A mid-term report which includes a pre-draft social protection medium term budget expenditure
framework. The report has been the result of more roundtables and other consultation mechanisms carried out at
entity and sub-entity levels with the relevant ministries, including the ministries of finances, identifying ways in
which the social sector policies may be reflected in the budget plans.
2.       Training to further process for future budget preparation.
3.       Development of a framework and methodology for the conduct of this process for the Ministries in the
future budgeting process. This included clear guidelines for practical continuing use of this process in the
development of future budgets, and recommendations for further dissemination.

Mid-term expenditures strategy for 2005 ­ 2007 anticipates: expenses for war casualties and civil victims of war
from RS budget in 2005; expenses for children's allowance from RS budget in 2006;
On the basis of the medium term budget expenditure framework, Ministry for Health and Social Protection will
develop Sectoral medium term budget expenditure framework, for 2005 ­ 2007, on the basis of the already agreed
priorities, and with cooperation of Ministry of Finance.

Subcomponent: Social Statistics




                                                        - 30 -

Objective was technical assistance in Social Statistics area, especially in providing assistance for a Living
Standards Measurement Study Survey (LSMS), and additional surveys like labor force survey (LFS). The SOTAC
should focused technical support to help in designing and implementing the surveys.

Previous established objectives in this area were partially accomplished.         Technical assistance was provided
through the segment of education. Study tour to Washington for the two people from Republic of Srpska Institute
of Statistics was organized, and they had opportunity to learn about international practice in the Social Statistic
areas. Based on the suggestions from the SOTAC working group, during the July supervision mission, agreement
was reached to reallocate the resources from this sub-component to the database component.                 The mission
recommended that any remainder should to be reallocated to the CSW-NGO innovation.

Project Component 2: Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public Information

Sub-Component: Functional Review of Social Protection
The objective of the assignment was to assist the Government in aligning the functions and structure of the public
sector to promote overall coherence in the social protection system, including through improved interaction with
NGOs and the general public. The configuration of ministerial responsibilities ought to be reviewed in close
collaboration with local counterparts

A consulting firm IBF, Belgium, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried out in close
coordination with the relevant ministries and state, entity and sub-entity level. The advisors closely coordinated
their work with the 2 DFID-managed consultants and their focus was on municipal level public structures (making
a proper division of work at local level and avoiding any duplication within the scope of assignment).
Comprehensive Report delivered to the three line Ministries which contained: recommendations for structural
changes, functional model, ministries organizational functions (Policy Development, Legislation Development,
Regulation and Supervision, Inspection, Financial Management, Information Management., Management and
Organization, Centers for Social Work, Co-operation with the 3rd Sector, Public information), European
integration, Capacity building and success factors. Recommendations from the report are accepted and currently
being developed by Government of RS.


Sub-Component: Public information campaign on objectives and nature of labor market and social protection
reforms
A consulting firm Bearing Point, USA, was recruited for the assignments. The public information campaign was
designed such as to inform public on the reform of social protection but with no affecting people with money spent.
That excluded pamphlets, brochures and similar materials. In fifteen municipalities all over the Republic of
Srpska were organized forums named "40 days of dialogues on social reforms" on which people were talking
directly with the member of government.

The consultant made the media review, and chose the local company PRA as local partner and together
disseminated the main information via local media. During the duration of campaign more materials were
disseminated through television and radio (in the time purchased only for campaign), and also in local press in
space reserved for Q&A for social protection reform issues.

The consultant made training with the members of government aimed to train the government staff how to present
messages to the public, including answering questions from media and how to improve their appearance in public.

The consultant developed training-style guidelines for future Public Information Campaigns and summary of the
capacity needs within the relevant ministries for future campaigns of this type.

Sub-Component: Other Training
The training of the staff working in social protection area was held in June 2004. The objective of the training of
the staff working in social protection was to obtain international practice in this area and to carry out reforms.

The participants were selected from the government staff, CSW and non-government representatives. In order for
the staff to be equipped and ready for implementation and to become familiar with social protection in European
country and to liase with European Union officials to become familiar with social protection in a broader European
context training was held in Holland and Belgium, two European countries where social protection is very



                                                        - 31 -

developed. Training included different kinds of seminars, counseling, study trips and other training. The
participants were selected from the government, CSW and non-government representatives.

Sub-Component: Establishment of Client registries for Centers for Social Work
The main objective was development of an appropriate client registry in Centers for social work in B&H.
A consulting firm ­ Consortium LACOOC, B&H, was recruited for the assignments. This assignment was carried
out in close coordination with the RS Ministry of Health and Social Protection including municipality CSWs. The
new database of the social welfare clients, unique for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was developed.
Database should provide help to the CSW staff so that less time is spent on the administration work and more time
is left for the dealing with clients.

The entity ministries clarified and facilitated the necessary legal decisions for full implementation of the registry.
So in the RS Official Gazette no. 80/September 13, 2004 was announced a "Regulation on booking of unique
personal evidence and documentation of users of social protection rights, forms, measures and services". Currently,
data on social protection beneficiaries are being inputting into Data Base, and it is expected that Data Base will be
completely operating by the end of 2004.

Sub-Component: Procurement of IT equipment for Centers for Social Work
The aim of procurement of IT equipment for CSWs in RS was connected with establishment of unique data base in
all CSWs in B&H.

Sub-Component: Configuration and networking of the new IT equipment
During the preparation of IT equipment for networking in existed network, it appeared necessity for the new
contract for the services which were not covered by contract for client data base neither by contract for delivering
of IT equipment. So, the new contract was signed with consultant COSYM SYSTEMS, Banja Luka, who made
Installation of terminal service and VPN client, configuration and establishing internet connection, configuration
and connection servers in main knots, configuration of multiservice access router and firewall in main knots,
installment of new equipment in every CSW and their connections with existed equipment if any. Since the access
to the data base server will be across the internet, the CSWs are recommended to install the ISDN telephone lines.
More of the CSWs installed the ISDN telephone lines, but some of them have no possibility for that, from the
reason of bad connections. The ISDN telephone lines enable the faster connections to the data base servers.

Sub-Component: NGO/CSW Innovation Fund
The objective was to support innovative collaborations between local NGOs and CSWs, specifically focusing on
contracting out of service provision for particular services which have not been enough covered in previous period
by CSWs, or that may be more effectively supported through third sector interventions.

Contracts with 20 NGOs were signed and executed and all of the NGOs had approval for such kind of activities
from the CSW where the project was located.

Sub-Component: Evaluation of the activities done under Innovative fund ­Cooperation between CSW and
NGOs
Under the SOTAC, three rounds of CSW/NGO innovations were financed with small grants. The purpose of the
audit was to the evaluation of selected innovations to be undertaken by a local consultant familiar with NGO
activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The objective of the assignment was to provide necessary review to obtain relevant information on results of NGOs
activities done and also how it influenced the work of Centers for Social Protection and their future intensions in
this area and to carry out reforms.

NGO Sinergija, Banjaluka, got a contract for consulting services to provide review and assessment of NGO's work
under component "Innovative Fund".

The main findings are following:
·         With very limited amount of the financial resources project has succeeded to establish a lot of new social
services and to serve lot of different categories of social vulnerable people.
·         Innovative Fund was very effective and efficient tool for satisfying the needs of existing and new
categories of social vulnerable people covering the territory and services which have not been covered.



                                                          - 32 -

·         Innovations brought new beneficiaries and new services in social security net.
·         All innovations and project activities under innovations where implemented according the requested rules
and demanded procedures on transparent and accountable way.
·         Real links and co-operation between the CSWs and NGOs was established through project realization.
·         NGOs which took a part in project realization mainly profile themselves as professional social services
providers, capable to recognize the real needs of the population and to define new underserved beneficiary groups,
and to implement innovative services on efficient and effective way.
·         Implementation of this project put the CSWs in position to recognize the importance and capability of the
NGO sector to contribute in servicing growing needs in social sector.
·         Review shows that only two relatively weak point of project implementation where: weak role of the CSW
defined by project design (the CSWs were more involved in project implementation then that was requested) and
monitoring on non regular bases (in other hand assessment shows that monitoring was not crucial for success of
the innovations).
·         Review and assessment shows that there is a lot of potentials in new ideas, services and non or
underserved people for continuation of the innovative services all over the country
·         Innovation activities implemented under this sub component of SOTAC are completely in line with
development objectives and expected outcomes.

Project Component 3: Project Implementation

Development and Employment Fund of Republic of Srpska (RS DEF) was the unit designated for implementation
of SOTAC project. RS DEF implements more different projects simultaneously.

In the very beginning of SOTAC Project the first Project Manager designated to manage the SOTAC Project left
RS DEF. So, SOTAC was given to be coordinated by the person who was the mostly informed on SOTAC Project
at the moment of leaving of first manager.

Internal management was organized so that beside the Coordinator of SOTAC project who was the only person
charged for the main activities, Coordinator was supported by the Director and Financial Management common for
all projects in RS DEF.

Procurement procedure was done in accordance with Credit Agreement and Guidelines and WB approvals, resulted
from prior review, are archived.

Very good cooperation was established with PIU in FB&H ­PIU PELRP. All components except Innovative fund
(cooperation between NGOs and CSW) were done together with PIU PELRP. Numbered contracts were signed
jointly with hired consultants.

Very good cooperation was established with RS Government members, who gave their full support to the SOTAC
management in RS DEF.

Since the SOTAC didn't provide training related the social protection, for the PIU staff, but only for the
Government staff, there was no training for PIU staff related social protection area.

II.       MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION

Initial delay of project activities was done because of repetition of Invitations for expression of interest for two out
of four main components (Employment institute special review and Public awareness campaign). The long list of
the applicators was very poor with qualified consultants, more of them were without experience what resulted with
the shortlists established from unqualified consultants. The procurement staff in WB in Sarajevo requested
repetition of Invitations for expression of interest for these two subcomponents.

During inception of the study on Functional review of social protection, and contract signed with IBF Consulting,
Belgium, on the kick off meeting was present only team leader. Two other members of key staff have never started
to work on the assignment. In the meantime team leader became ill, and he gave up the assignment. The IBF
Consulting proposed new list of the key staff. It took much time until we selected the new team in cooperation with
World bank. The new team started with work very late. Their work was not satisfactory to the counterparts and
almost every report was returned with comments for redesigning. Every report took much time before its full


                                                           - 33 -

acceptance.

The PAD was very comprehensive and contained only Terms of references for a few assignments. The preparation
of the rest of TORs caused a delay in preparations of bidding documents.

In Project Appraisal document it was proposed that the study on Labor legislation and labor market would be done
by engagement of International Labor Organization (ILO). Unfortunately, beside that all documents were prepared
and the PIUs got "all "no-objections" from the Bank for them, and the time spent on procurement procedures for
employment of ILO was very significant, when ILO was invited to submit his technical financial proposal, ILO
informed us that they didn't ready to do the assignment.

Study tour was firstly planned to commence in April 19, 2004. We engaged consultant in Holland for the services
of organizing meetings and she agreed numerous meetings in Holland and Belgium, booked the hotel rooms etc,
PIUs booked the fly-tickets, insured the visa obtaining. Few days before study tour commencement, we were
informed by World Bank that the study tour would not take place from April 19th to April 27th because
participants of study tour had to be in B&H in the time from April 22-May, reserved for study tour, because of the
meeting of the Bosnian Government with WB representatives and negotiating of new loans. The study tour was
prolonged to May 2004.

III.     LESSONS LEARNED

The Government participation: It is a crucial factor that government's representatives should be, from the
beginning to the end of the project, actively involved in all phases of project implementation.

Also, ideal time frame for implementation of Projects like SOTAC should be within mandate of only one
Government. In opposite, Project is faced with difficult circumstances.

The Project Appraisal Document Arrangement: The initial documents should contain all TORs, in draft
version, for all significant assignments of the Project, in order to avoid loss of time for their preparation during the
project.

The Credit Agreement: In the case of SOTAC when more activities are proposed as technical assistance and
results of the consultants work are studies done, the PIUs have no influence to the Government in implementations
of the recommendations from the studies. In such case the Credit Agreement should contain, at the start, some
body named for supervision of Government in implementation of the recommendations from accepted reports and
studies.

IV.      BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank Performance: The Bank's assistance strategy paralleled and supported the Government `s efforts in social
sector reform. In collaboration with other donor (DFID), World Bank administered its donations in the form of
grant to support Functional review in Social Technical Assistance Project.

Borrower Performance: In the beginning of project, the Borrower nominated a Working group (constituted from
the members from each line Ministries and one member from Ministry of Finance). Working group reviewed all
reports submitted by the consultants, and gave their comments to the reports. Working group participated also in
all workshops presenting the problems in social protection by Government point of view.

During Public information campaign, all 40 days of dialogue, members of Government were informing public, by
different media, about the facts in social protection area and the reasons for necessity of reforms in social
protection.
The members of Government gave full support to the consultants in review of all existing documentation.
The Government members were included in the many committees for evaluation of the bids and proposals during
of numerous evaluations.




                                                          - 34 -

                           Annex AC: Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
                                      (Based on input from the two PIUs)

Social Protection Institutional Strengthening and Public Information Component
 l Functional review of social protection in both entities;
 l Client Registries for the Centers for Social Work / Procurement of computer and other IT equipment;
 l NGO/CSW innovative fund (including external revision);
 l Other training;
 l Public campaign on reform of the labor market and social protection.
     Output from        Outcome Indicators                                   Achievement of Objectives
      component              (as in PAD)
      (as in PAD)
· Capacity at central   · Centers for Social   § Installed new applicative software(s) based on SQL server and developed the
  and local level in SP   Work which are         client registries in both entities, including the system within the CSWs, and
  system is               operating standard     necessary communication linkages with the entity and cantons. Staff trained at
  strengthened;           client systems by      each level to a minimal competency in the use of the registry. Necessary
                          end of project         equipment was procured to support the client registry. Current process is inputting
                          period;                data on social protection beneficiaries into database. It can be expected that the
                        · Staff trained in       database will be fully completed be the end of 2004.
                          different elements   § Innovative Fund made a great contribution to improvement of the impact and
                          of project;            efficiency of the social safety net, because project created 52 (32 in FBiH, and 20
                                                 in RS) new innovative non-existing services through RS, serving new clients or
                                                 providing new services for existing beneficiaries. All innovations bought
                                                 successful collaboration between NGOs and the CSWs. All NGOs benefit from
                                                 project implementation through capacity building, new services development, new
                                                 equipment etc. Innovative Fund has shown as very successful in regard to
                                                 connection of the CSWs and non-government sector in more quality and chipper
                                                 rendering of social assistance to the target and vulnerable group of population. It is
                                                 important to notice that the NGO representatives have accrued knowledge
                                                 necessary for designing of similar projects.
                                               § Some of the NGOs had permanently become financed by municipalities` budget
                                                 ("Sunce nam je zajednicko", mun. Trebinje for activity nursery for children with
                                                 special needs and USR, mun. Prijedor for activity Shelter for homeless people.
                                               § Many of the NGO will become self sustainable.
                                               § Two study tours were organized, including training for social protection staff at
                                                 different levels in order to expose them further to international practice in key
                                                 areas where reforms are being designed or implemented. Visits and exchanging of
                                                 experiences and learned lessons through contacts with representatives in EU and
                                                 ILO in Brussels, social protection institutions, the banks in Belgium and
                                                 Netherlands are good base for application of reforms in social sector.
                                               § Current functions of public bodies involved in social protection issues are
                                                 reviewed, as well as which of these functions are appropriate roles for the public
                                                 sector in a market economy; some recommendations are applying in accordance
                                                 with the Law on Social Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina and relating
                                                 applicable regulations.
                                               § In FBiH, on January 1, 2003 the joint Federal Ministry has been functionaly
                                                 divided to the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the Federal
                                                 Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees
· The general public    § Development of       § The Public campaign "40 days of dialog" has been successfully implemented in
  and social partners     effective public       numerous of municipalities, cantons and both entities of BiH. Relevant
  are better informed     information/           representatives from different branches: social and children protection, work and
  about the objectives    consultation           employment, displaced persons and refugees, health and education have been
  and nature of           programs on social     involved in implementation of this campaign. It has been covered with relevant
  proposed social policy  policy reforms, and    media materials, such as: radio and TV broadcasting; special programs and short
  reforms.                carrying out public    announcements; popular pamphlets, informative brochures, prospects, posters,
                          information            frequently asked questions and answers in press; etc; The campaign resulted with
                          campaigns.             developing the Guidelines for future campaigns.



                                                            - 35 -

Social Protection Policy Component
 l Social assistance technical assistance & Technical assistance on disability programs;
 l Social protection expenditure strategy;
 l Employment Institutes special review;
 l Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance;
 l Social statistics.
  Output from      Outcome Indicators                                 Achievement of Objectives
   component            (as in PAD)
   (as in PAD)
· A revamped      · Approved SP           Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
  process for        Strategies for       · Bill law (changes and amendments) of Law on Basic Social Protection, civil war
  deciding SP        2001-2004;             victim protection and protection families with children was developed. In first
  priorities and  · SP Expenditure          phase it was discussed within FBIH Government; in second phase is prepared
  putting them       Strategies for each    Proposal which will be sent in Parliament procedures for discussion;
  into practice;     budget year;         · Law on Employment and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities is
                  · Adoption of reforms     in preparation;
                     to Entity SP laws to · Book of Regulations which will consist of improved standards and procedures and
                     reflect greater        will be used in Centers for Social Work is in preparation;
                     resource pooling     · State Agency for employment is founded;
                     and equalization in  · Bill law on Mediation in Employment is developed;
                     social assistance    · New "Second Employment Support Project" will be launched with objective to
                                            reform Employment Institutes, especially in Scope of job creation activities,
                                            employment programs and institutional strengthening;
                                          · Methodology and guidelines for social protection medium term budget
                                            expenditure framework is developed;
                                          · Mid-term expenditures strategy for 2005 ­ 2007 anticipates: expenses for civil
                                            victims of war from federal budget in 2005; expenses for children's allowance
                                            from federal budget in 2006; Expenses for poorest in 2007 are not anticipated yet,
                                            sources of financing are to be defined;
                                          · On the basis of the medium term budget expenditure framework, Federal Ministry
                                            for Labor and Social Policy will develop Sectoral medium term budget expenditure
                                            framework, for 2005 ­ 2007, on the basis of the already agreed priorities, and with
                                            cooperation of Ministry of Finance. Objective is to achieve improved social
                                            assistance system in place.

                                          Republika Srpska
                                          · New "Regulation of categorization of persons with disabilities in mental and
                                            physical growth", was announced
                                         · New "Regulation on estimation of ability of people who are in procedure of
                                           getting the rights from social protection" was announced.
                                         · New Proposal of "Law on veterans' rights, war disables, and families of war
                                           fallen veterans", which will regulate many issues such as:
                                         · Registration of people with disabilities,
                                         · Step-by-step increase of monthly payments;
                                         · Law on professional rehabilitation, enablement and employment of people with
                                           disabilities
                                         · Establishment of Fund for rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, was
                                           announced
                                         · New "Law on protection of persons with mental disorders" was announced
                                         · "Regulations for education of children with special needs in primary and
                                           secondary schools".
                                         · Four manuals: for evidence and documentation of: adoption of orphans, adopted
                                           children, children and parents users of social benefits, people under social care
                                           were announced.
                                         · New "Second Employment Support Project" will be launched with objective to
                                           reform Employment Institutes, especially in Scope of job creation activities,



                                                            - 36 -

                                              employment programs and institutional strengthening;
                                            · Methodology and guidelines for social protection medium term budget
                                              expenditure framework is developed;
                                            · Mid-term expenditures strategy for 2005 ­ 2007 anticipates: expenses for civil
                                              victims of war from budget in 2005; expenses for children's allowance from
                                              budget in 2006;
                                            · On the basis of the medium term budget expenditure framework, will develop
                                              Sectoral medium term budget expenditure framework, for 2005 ­ 2007, on the
                                              basis of the already agreed priorities, and with cooperation of Ministry of Finance.
                                              Objective is to achieve improved social assistance system in place;
                                            · SP fully consistent with goals and action plan set forth in the BH Development
                                              Strategy ­ PRSP.
· A core body for · Passage of              · Originally, this sub-component was planed in a procurement way to do a
  labor legislation   amendments to key       sole-source contract with ILO. ILO canceled in delivering this task.
  that creates a      labor legislation in
  supportive          each Entity which
  enabling            promotes better
  environment for     private sector
  private sector      environment;
  growth;
· Capacity is       · Sample frame          · The SOTAC should focused technical support to help in designing and
  develop to          agreed and LFS and      implementing the surveys. Federal Office of Statistics expressed interest to get
  produce and         LSMS carried out        assistance through the procurement of new equipment (goods) what was not
  analyze reliable    and data freely         pre-defined in PAD and Credit agreement;
  social statistics.  available for         · Technical assistance was provided through the segment of education. Study tour to
                      analysis.               Washington for the Federal Office of Statistics employees was organized, and they
                                              had opportunity to learn about international practice in the Social Statistic areas.



                                                          SUMMARY

         Project Development Objective                         Outcome/Impact Indicators                Objectives Accomplished
  Support development of institutional and            Improved coordination in SP policy                  Objective
  budgetary mechanisms for development and            development, leading to more coherent and           accomplished.
  prioritization of social policy in BH               consistent policies which are fiscally
                                                      sustainable.
  Improve the policy framework for generation of      Labor legislation which is more flexible.           Objective
  productive employment opportunities.                                                                    accomplished.
  Improve the impact and efficiency of the social     An improved social assistance system in place.      Objective
  safety net, in particular focusing programs on                                                          accomplished.
  the needs of the poorest.
  Improving public information about the              The general public and social partners are          Objective
  objectives and elements of social policy            better informed about the objectives and            accomplished.
  reforms.                                            nature of proposed social policy reforms.
  Strengthen the social statistics base in order to   Capacity development in statistical agencies to     Objective partially
  ensure that social policy is formulated on a        carry our representative household surveys.         accomplished.
  well-informed basis.




                                                               - 37 -

- 38 -

