Page  1
November 15, 2001
H.E. Azra Hadziahmetovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9, Sarajevo 71000
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
United Kingdom Grant for Functional Review of Social Policy 
Institutions
Grant Number TF 029816
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate the IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
Government of United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding one hundred sixty two thousand six hundred eighty pounds 
sterling (GBP 162,680) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director and Regional Coordinator
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Azra Hadziahmetovic
Date:
December 18, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the local governments of the Recipient in 
aligning the functions and structure of the public sector to promote overall coherence 
in the social protection system including interaction with non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) and the general public (the Project).  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
preparation of an inception report and a work program for the assignment;
(b)
preparation of a report on: (i) the functions performed by the local 
protection bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina at local level; (ii) the existing 
structural arrangements within social protection bodies and their interconnecting 
roles and functions; and (iii) the current capacity of the social protection bodies;
Page  2
(c)
development of a decision matrix with clear division of functions 
performed by social protection bodies;
(d)
conducting workshop and training sessions for government counterparts on 
analysis and policy recommendations on institutional issues in social protection; and
(e)  preparation of a final report on lessons learned.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on 
the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to 
IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For the purpose of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall 
enter into the subsidiary grant agreements (Subsidiary Grant Agreements) with the 
Ministry of Finance of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of 
Finance Republika Srpska, respectively, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the Activities 
are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of Expenditures
Category
Allocated (in GBP)
to be Financed
Part A:
The Federation
(1)
Consultants’ services
and workshops
113,876
100% 
Sub-total
113,876
Part B:
Republika Srpska (RS)
(2)
Consultants’ services
and workshops
 48,804
100% 
Sub-total
 48,804
TOTAL
162,680
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "consultant services and workshops" 
means expenditures for consultant’s services and workshops on analysis and policy 
recommendations on institutional issues in social protection to government 
Page  3
counterparts. 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment to IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February 28, 
2002, or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Recipient or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of 
consulting firms costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; and (b) services of 
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) workshops, 
all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain two special deposit accounts (the Special Accounts) in U.S. dollars, the 
Federation Special Account for Part A of the Project and RS Special Account for Part B 
of the Project, in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
4.7.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Page  4
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the World Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services for functional review of social protection in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  5
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent 
of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (a) in respect of the Federation 
Special Account for Part A of the Project, an amount in U.S. dollars equivalent to 
GBP113,876; and (b) in respect of RS Special Account for Part B of the Project, an 
amount in U.S. dollars equivalent to GBP48,804, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
and deposited in the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Attachment II.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Accounts at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
Page  6
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of 
the Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under 
the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.
