Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3439 BOS
Project Agreement
(Social Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated April 13, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3439 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION (the Federation).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Federation agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into among the Borrower 
and the Federation (the Subsidiary Financing Agreement), the Borrower will make 
available to the Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices; and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Federation 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Federation and the Association to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Federation Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Federation of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the Federation a plan for the 
future operation of Part A of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Federation on said plan; and 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, 
Page  3
resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Federation shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to, not later than February 15, 2002, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Part A 
of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Federation shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  4
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the 
Federation of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
Federation Ministry of Finance 
387 71 203 152
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation 
or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or 
persons as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the Federation shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
Page  5
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Karlo Filipovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Schedule
1.
The Federation shall coordinate with RS the implementation of its respective 
activities under the Project through the Federation PIU, and shall, for this purpose:
(a) 
ensure the maintenance of the Federation PIU, until the completion of the 
Project, under terms of reference, and with staff, facilities and other sources 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
assign to the Federation PIU all technical responsibilities for Project 
implementation, including:  (i)
preparation, in consultation with the Bank, of annual 
plans for Project implementation, setting forth, inter alia, the activities to be 
carried out under the year in question, together with an estimate of the funding 
requirements and the target dates for the employment of consultants or the conduct of 
training or the implementation of any other planned activity under the Project; (ii) 
preparation, with the assistance of consultants of the bidding and contract documents 
for the Project; (iii) maintenance of the Project financial records and accounts, 
including the Special Accounts, and arranging for the audit thereof; (iv) preparation 
and submission to the Association of quarterly reports on Project progress; and (v) 
supervision of progress of Project implementation.
2.
The Federation shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM and 
maintain the PIM until the completion of the Project and unless the Association may 
otherwise agree, not amend, repeal or waive the PIM or any provisions thereof.
3.
The Federation shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the association, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Page  6
Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the following provisions of the following Parts of 
this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C : Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review 
With respect to: (a) each contract procured under Part B of this Section I; and 
(b) the first five contracts procured under Part C.1 and C.2 of this Section I, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  7
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part A.1(a) of the Project estimated to cost less than $135,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $135,000 shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection 
Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Services under Part A.1(c) of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000, may be procured from International Labor Organization in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of  $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
