Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7580
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CR_DIT 954-IN)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted disbodon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency Rupee    (Rs)
Appraisal Year Average    (1979)          USS 1.00 = Rs   8.076
Intervening Year Average  (1980-84)      US$ 1.00 - Rs   9.730
Completion Year Average   (1985)          US$ 1.00   Rs  12.237
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
7liE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OMiCe of DetKc"Wal
Opeifatfts E[vaiation
December 30, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on India Maharashtra
Irrigation II Proiect (Credit 954-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India Maharashtra Irrigation II Project
(Credit 954-IN)" prepared by the FAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Programme,
with an overview memorandum prepared by the Asia Regional Office.
Full evaluation of this project has not been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department.
Attachment
T This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD           - Agricultural Department
AEO          - Agricultural Extension Officer
ARDC         - Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD          -  Command Area Development
CADA         -  Command Area Development Authority
CCA          - Cultivable Command Area
CCF          -  Constructive Conversion Factor
CDO          -  Central Design Organization of GOM
DCA          - Development Credit Agreement
ERR          -  Economic Rate Of Return
FCF          -  Foodgrain Conversicn Factor
GOI          -  Government of India
GON          - Government of Maharashtra
HD           - Health Department
HYV          -  High Yielding Varieties
ICA          -  Irrigable Command Area (see Glossary)
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
ID           -  Irrigation Department
IFAD         -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB          - Local Competitive Bidding
LDA          -  Land Development Agency
N & E        - Monitoring and Evaluation
MPAU         - Mahatma Phole Agricultural University at Rahuri
MWUP         - Maharashtra Water Utilization Project
OER          -  Official Exchange Rate
OFD          -  On-Farm Development (see Glossary)
O&M          -  Operation and Maintenance
PA           -  Project Agreement
PW & HD      -  Public Works and Housing Department
QCU          -  Quality Control Unit
RWS          -  Rotational Water Supply
SCF          -  Standard Conversion Factor
SSC          -  State Seeds Corporation
T&V          -  Training and Visit System of Agriculture.l Extens4"n
VLW          - Village Level Worker
WAPCOS       - Water and Power Consultants
WMU          - Water Management Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorifation.



GJ.OSSARY
Branch and     -     Irrigation canal with capacity more than 0.7 m3ts
Distributary         originat'ng at the main canal
Canal
Black Cotton   -     Heavy black clay soil, derived from basaltic rocks
(BC) or
Vertisol
Chak           -     Block or irrigation service area below the Government
outlet
Field Channel  -     Irrigation channel from the lovernment (chak) outlet
to individual farms (with lefs - 28 llsec - discharge)
Irrigable      -     Equal to net Cultivable Command Area (NCCA)
Commavd Area
(ICA)
Kharif         -    Wet Season (June to October)
Main Canal     -    Main conveyance systems originating at the water
source (dam, river)
Minor          _     Irrigation canal with capacity less than 0.7 m3/s and
serving group of chaks
Murrum         -     Granular material derived from weathered basalt
formations
On-farm        -     Small-scale works needed for efficient water
development          distribution and soil moisture control at the chak
(OFD)                level (e.g. field channels and dividers, drains and
landshaping). OFD can be with or without land-shaping
Outlet         -     Outlet. discharging from minor to 15 to 25 ha block,
designed to take full field channel discharge and be
either open or shut
Rabi           -    Winter Season (November to March)
Rigid Shejpali -    Allocation of water according to Shejpali
with delivery at predetermined turns
Shejpali       -     Rotational Water Supply used in Maharashtra on
sanction of water by crops, and irrigation from the
tail-enders upstream
Warabandi      -     Rotational Water Supply (RWS) used in northern India
and based on allocation of water in proportion to the
size of the landholding and delivery at predetermined
turns



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 954-IN)
1ARLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface       ........................ ..... Co.. * .* * * ** * * ** .......... #. .*....  i
Basic Data Sheet  ......00.. **..*o......ii
Evaluation Sumnary  ......... *.***.........*.**....O..*....   {iii
Overview    ...........   0.....- 6*   .....    0               vii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Introduction  ..... 1 ... ... 0...
II. Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal  ....     2
III. Implementation  ... *.*.......   ......                     3
IV. Institutional Performance and Development  ............    13
V. Project Impact  ....................................    17
VII. Economic Re-evaluation  ..... ..... ...  .    .......    20
VII.   Bank  Performance  .......... **.*. ...........  $0   ........  23
VIII. Conclusions and Lessons Learned                    ...    24
Tables:
1.  Implementation Status for Girna and Mula Schemes
2.  Comparison of Main Features of Physical Components
3.  ICB Procured Machirery
4.  Project's Annual Expenditures per Scheme
5.  Un'.t Cost Rates of Earth Works, Concrete and Rasonry over Period
1977 -78 to 1985-86
6.  Allocation of IDA Credit
7.  Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Purchase of Machinery and Equipment under ICB
9.  Annual 0 & M Expenditures and Water Charges
10.  Summary - Total Cropped Area, Cropping and Irrigation
Intensities, Farm Income
11.  Cropping and Irrigation Intensities by Crops - SAR and PCR
Comparison
12.  Crop Yields by Scheme
13.  Agricultural Production at Full Development by Scheme
14. Annual Inc--mental Agricultural Production at Full Development -
SAR, PCR Comparison
15.  Economic Input Costs and Farm-Gate Prices
16.  ERR - Krishna
17.  ERR - Warna
18.  ERR - Kukadi
19.  ERR - Upper Penganga
20.  ERR - Upper Wardha
21.  Total Project - ALT. I
22.  Total Project - ALT. II



Figures:
1.     Implementation Schedule - Krishna
2.     Implementation Schedvl.e - Warna
3.     Implementation Schedule - Kukadi
4.     Implementation Schedule - Upper Penganga
5.     Implementation Schedule - Upper Wardha
ATTACHMENT I: Borrower's Comments



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 954-IN)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews
implementation of the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project in India,
for which Credit 954-IN in the amount of US$ 210 million was
approved in October 1979. The credit was closed on 31 December
1985 as originally scheduled; with the final disbursements in
early 1986 for expenses incurred during the project period, the
Credit was fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/CP and was revised
slightly after consultation with Asia Region staff. The
evaluation summary and IDA Overview prepared by Asia Region
staff, is based on the PCR, the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2529a-IN, dated 13 September 1979), President's Report (No. P-
2625-IN of the same date), Development Credit Agreement, dated 14
April 1980, Bank supervision mission reports, on field visits to
two sub-projects, and on reviews of Maharashtran irrigation by
FAO/CP and Bank staff during the 'reformulation' missions for
Maharashtra Irrigation III (MCIP III) Project. MCIP III is a
follow-on to MCIP I not to this project. There has been no
follow-on project to date.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project
performance reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project has not yet been
audited by OED staff. A copy of the draft report was sent to the
Government of India for comments on October 26, 1988.  Those comments
have been appended as Attachment I.



IMOIA - MAHARASNTRA IRRIGAtION It PROJECT (CR.954.1.1)
PROJCT COMPLETION REPORT  . OASIC DATA SHEET
!x.Pro 1ct Oat
Aooral%a1     F       Actual         as tot
Project Cost (USS million) 1/       452.9       *96.19               iI1
Credit Amount (USS million) Z/    710.0          210.00              100
Oste of Effectiveness              10/1979      6/1980
Oats Board Aoproval                             10/1979
Otte Ph s ca' Conponents            9/1984        1990
Completem
Closing Octe *                     12/198S      l2/198a
Economic Rate of Return (S)           IS       c     1.41A/
(Weighted Average 5  Sli
Nem Schemes)
If  Excluding 'iAO Cradit - USS50 million.
jI Source: SAR Vol. Ilt: SAR Vol. I states USS451.0 million.
According to Credit Agreement.
t   Figure In  reackets gives a second invesUent optien, explained tn
Chapter VI.
Cumulative itsbursement
Fiscal Years:           FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Appraisal Estimate       S.0    36.0    84.0   :5,00   198.0                  -
(USS million)
Revised CUSS million)    .            _                  lSB.O   195.0   210.0
Actual (USS million)    8.8    35.9    75.3   119.5   162.9   191.7   210.0
Actual as S of aporal.  176       100     90       g0      80       93     100
rtvised estimate
Mission .ata
Mission        5 n     ate    No.   Man-   SciC'  -         frr 4ncRatin   -
( (nth)  dir-   ays    sation                 f       c/        d/
-     year)           i in              Status  Trend      tio
Preparation'    -
Appraisal       HQ   Feb. 79  10
supev. I        MOO  Apr. 90   1       12        I         1       I        -
superv. ti      "DO  mar. 81   3       29      1.1.1       1       2      T.,HF
Superv. 111    MOO  Oc. 81   2        19       1.1        2       1      T.M.F
Superv. IV      NOO  May. 82   2       21       III        2       1       T,M
Superv. V       NOO  Nov. 82   2       32       1.1        2       2       T,M
Superv. VI      MOO  May  83   2       24       1.1        2       2       TIM
Superv. Vtt    MOO  Sep. 83   5        51   I I.I.A.A      2       2       TIM
Superv. Vill   00  Mar. 84   5        27   1I1,1.R,A      2       2       F."
Superv. IX      MOO  Sep. 84   4       303   i,,i.R        2       2       F.M
Superv. X       MOO  Mar. 85   5       27   I1.1,,lRA      2       2       FIN
Superv. XI      MOO  Nov. 85   6       40  I,II,I,R,A    2        2       F.M4 v
PCR         FAO/CP  Fa. 87
Prepared by GO  In cooperation with IAPCOS. WO and FAO/CP In 1977/79.
/   t * Irrigation Engineer%  F * Financial Analyst;  E a Economist;
R * Roads Engineer; A a AgriCulturiSt.
I/  1 * Problem free or minor probims;    2 a *odorate problems;
3 * rjor problems.
I/  1 * Iproving    2 * stationary;   3 * deteriorating.
FJ f * financal; N * managerial; T * technical; P * political.
/   New format Introduced, rating adjusted to previous system.
Other Project UA
lorrower:                        Governeent of India
Eaecuting Agency:                Goveruwant of Pbharasntra
Fiscal Veer:                     April 1  - March 31
Mame of Currency:                Rupee (As)
Currency ExchaMe Rate:          179/80             USSl.OO  *   8.076
1980/81               *     *   7.893
1981/82                         8 8.929
1982/83                     *   9.628
1983/84               -     *10.312
1984/85                        11.887
1985/86                        1 12.237



- {ii -
PROJECT CONPLETIO0N REPORT
INDIA
HAIARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 954-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.       This project was defined as the 1980-85 "time slice" of
construction of five already-started irrigation sub-projects
(Krishna, Warna, Kukadi, Upper Penganga & Upper Wardha) (97Z of
base cost) and certain modernization works on two existing sub-
projects (Girna & Mula)(3Z of base cost.. The "time slice" of an
eighth already-started sub-project, Bhima, wa appraised with the
other seven but financed by IFAD; it is the subject of a separate
PCR.
Li.      All seven sub-projects are canal irrigation projects in
the Deccan Trap portion of Maharashtra. All seven cozmand areas
are predominantly vertiuols. All sub-projects are in rather flat
yet undulating terrain, necessitating large dams and shallow
reservoirs, as well as quite a bit of cut and fill to construct
canals and quite a bit of land shaping/levelling to permit good
irrigated farming. All are in rainfall-deficient areas, with the
western-most sub-projects in more drought-prone areas than more
easterly Upper Wardha and Upper Penganga. Except for the
modernization sub-projects, none were or were expected to be
completed by the end of the five-year time slice. At full
development, incremental irrigated command area from the five
sub-projects was expected to be about 494,000 ha. benefitting
120,000 farm families directly and generating 140,000 jobs for
hired farm labor and 80,000 non-fomu jobs.
Costs. Benefits, and Returns
iii.     The credit became effective in mid-1980, nine months
later than anticipated. The project works were not completed by
the end 1985 as anticipated, but all credit funds were disbursed
by the end of 1986 as originally planned. In that period, costs
were 10 more than had been anticipated. However, theae costs
did Iot achieve the anticipated objectives. Comparison of
physical targets and achievements is complicated by modifications
in project design anticipated at appraisal. By comparing
physical achievements reported in the PCR with those costed in
the SAR and applying weights as per SAR base cost, the weighted



- iv -
physical under-achievement was 352. Cost over-run, therefore,
was 702. The PCR cites steeper-than-anticipated cost escalation,
in part because the appraisal team worked from out-Aated cost
estimates.
iv.      As the PCR argues, it is premature to estimate benefits
when, in 1987, less than 10% of the expected ultimate irrigable
area is completed and when much of that 10% is in the breaking-in
stage. PCR estimates factor in a) delay in benefits because
works' completion is delayed, and b) lower irrigation intensity
in kharif (rainy season) because the systems cannot deliver crop
water needs for more than 50% of the kharif command area. Also,
as compared to the SAR, the PCR finds higher without-project
yields and lower cropping intensities, lower full-development
yields, and a revised cropping pattern that reflects developments
since appraisal, notably restrictions on sugarcane areas,
development of hot-season groundnut, etc. These adjustments
indicate a major reduction in benefits.
v.       The PCR may be under-estimating full-development yields
by basing its projections on results obtained during a period
when farmers are learning irrigated farming by doing (since, as
the PCR reports, the extension improvements built into the
project did not take place). Conversely, the PCR may be over-
estimating full-development yields by basing its projections on
the experience of farming the head reaches of two sub-projects.
Even based on the PCR's optimistic assumptions about system
efficiency (5.6 & 7.3), the lower reaches may get their canal
water less reliably than the head reaches. A definitive finding
would be premature.
vi.      The most serious of the PCR's findings rexarding
potential benefits is that canal caps.city will permit no more
than 50X of the command to be irrigated dv'ring kharif, based on
optimistic assumptions about system efficiency mentioned above.
SAR estimates ranged from 65 to 93% by project. The PCR does not
explain the source of the discrepancy between canal sizing and
anticipated kharif irrigation intensity. Underestimation of
system water losses is probably not the source because PCR
estimates were optimistic ones (5.6), though construction quality
seems to have been poor (3.21-2). SAR underestimation of crop
water requirements could not have caused the discrepancy because
the SAR used the same WATREQ model assumptions that the PCR did.
Did the SAR over-estimate the extent to which crop water
requirements could be met from rainfall during kharif? Or did
the PCR, conducted following several years of extraordinary
drought, under-estimate them? Did the PCR inadequately take into
account the important water-storage capacity of projects'
vertisols? For design of any future cana.& irrigation projects in
vertisol areas or re-design of old ones, it is important to have
answers to these questions.



vii.     With all these caveats, the PCR very tentatively
estimates the economic rate of return for the five on-ftoinit sub-
proiects as wholes at from less than 0-to-7X, compared with the
14-to-18X estimated by the SAR. Neither SAR nor PCR estimate
return to the time slice and completion of these sub-projecta,
taking whatever was built by 1980 as a sunk cost. That would, of
course, have been the operationally-relevant indicator in 1979 --
was it socially worthwhile to finish the five projects? And
would it be today? The O-to-6% finding does not answer this
question, but it does suggest that these projects are much less
attractive investments than supposed in 1979.
Lessons Learned and Some Thints That Went Wrong
viii.    Quality of works, particularly of those contracted out,
has been a persistent problem, partially overcome with help from
vigorous IDA supervision. 'ID officers have not been resolute
enough to reject substandard work, especially in canal lining and
do not make contractors strip back and replace unacceptable
sections' (3.21). The quality-control organization set up was
not effective.
ix.      The project aimed to replace the traditional
Maharashtran system of allocating irrigation water to crops as
agreed between users and Irrigation Department (shejpali) with a
rotational water-supply system with irrigation water allocated
proportional to land holding and with farmers free to crop as
they wish to optimize the use of this pre-determined supply
(warabandi). This replacement has not yet taken place, except
for a few pilot experiments with 'rigid shejpali", a half-way
hc.use between the two systems. The PCR agrees with the SAR that
warabandi would 'lessen waste and permit more equitable
distribution' and "provide a natural incentive toward higher
irrigation intensities, particularly during kharif" (3.28).
There is no convincing account, however, of why warabandi has
been resisted.  One possible reason is that, with only a small
portion of the commands developed, water is not yet scarce, as it
is in all areas where warabandi now works.
x.       Canal lining and smaller chaks.  The PCR finds the SAR
azgument convincing that lined distributaries and smaller chaks,
though expensive, are cost effective -- that the higher standard
is the least cost solution (8.2). Nevertheless, ID, driven by
budgetary considerations, has cut back on lining and has reduced
chak size less than agreed. The problem of stabilizing unlined
canals in vertisols, however, was not solved. Grass sodding in
the invert does not work.
xi.      Training in land and water management at the Aurangabad
WALMI has been successful and significant.



- vi -
xii.     Road construction and maintenance, carried out by ID
during the credit disbursement period, reverted to Public Works
Department thereafter.
xiii.    Adaptive aaricultural research at Mahatma Phule
Agricultural University did not turn up any effective solutions
to farmers' problems of irrigated vertisol farming.
xiv.     Extension to help farmers adapt to irrigation, using the
T&V system and involving both the Agricultural Department and the
Command Area Development Authority, was almost totally
ineffective (4.6-7).
xv.      Malaria control worked.
xvi.     Monitoring & evaluation was ineffective.
xvii.     Pilot water manacement" programs to determine the
optimum level of irrigation services were inconclusive (3.26-7),
except that the PCR finds that flanged semi-circular spun RCC
pipe of 30 1/s capacity is best for lining field channels in
vertisols.
xviii.   Cost recoverv through water chartes was much lower than
either expected or promised. A study showed that volumetric
charges were impractical.



- vii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 954-IN)
OVERVIEW
Introduction
1.       The Maharashtra Irrigation II Project was approved in
October 1979. It includeds
- six years (1980 through 1985) of the construction of
five gravity irrigation sub-projects already begun earlier (942
of slated costs) (the same 'time slice" of a sixth project was
appraised simultaneously but financed separately by International
Fund for Agricultural Development);
- modernization works on two existing gravity irrigation
sub-projects (32 of costs);
- a trial pilot scheme to try out higher construction
standards on the Jayakwadi gravity irrigation scheme then already
being financed by the Bank under Credit 736-IN (1.5Z of costs);
and
- establishment of the Water and Land Management
Institute to supplement the training of engineers and
agricultural officers (1.5Z of costs).
2.       The five sub-projects had been started between 1968 and
1972. They were at various stages of completion. They were to
be substantially completed by 1994, bringing their net cultivable
command area of 494,000 ha. fully into production. The appraisal
was accompanied by the most thorough state-wide irrigation-sector
assessment made up to that time.
Obiectives
3.       In the broad sense, this 'composite' project, coming on
the heels of Credit 736-IN, a 'composite' project focused on the
large Jayakwadi gravity command, aimed at improving irrigation
planning, project selection, and the standards to which gravity
irrigation systems were built and operated throughout Maharashtra
State. As part of this effort, prior to and during appraisal,
the Bank surveyed the sector state-wide more comprehensively than



- viii -
had been done previously in an Indian state. A number of
desirable changes were identified:
- because farmers would often not construct smaller
canals and field channels on their own as expected and,
therefore, a lot of canal water was being wasted, have the state
system deliver water to 8 ha blocks (chaks) instead of to much
larger ones as previously and construct the field channels on
behalf of farmers (and recover the expense of doing so through
the credit system);
- because Bank analysis showed that canal lining, though
expensive, saved enough water to make it the least cost solution,
line all canals down to the 8-ha chak;
- to facilitate operation and maintenance, build canal-
side roads and paths and install radio communication links;
- because the Bank was convinced of the superior
efficiency of the warabandi rotational-water-supply operating
system (though most of the Maharashtran irrigation cadre was
not), size all the distribution network for operation under a
rotational-water-supply system;
- because distribution-network works were being carried
out and completed in a haphazard way and drainage was generally
being neglected, construct the command area works by blocks,
including the drainage, and 'commission' thew -- certify their
completion before the Irrigation Department handed them over to
the Command Area Development Authority;
- because of the manifest inadequacies in construction,
raise standards of concrete technology, earthwork compaction,
cross regulators and other control structures, dewatering
structures;
- because of the knotty problem of the expansive black
soils' popping out canal linings when they get wet, or simply
eroding away when canals are unlined so that canals disappear,
condur.t experiments on different kinds of canal lininas, their
cost and effectiveness, and then adopt standards; and
- looking ahead to future demand for more sophisticated
irrigation to meet more specialized crop needs, experiment with
intermediate storage reservoirs to meet peak demands and
volumetric water charges.
4.       All of these efforts to improve state-wide irrigation
standards, and others to improve agricultural research and
extension for black-soil irrigators, to improve markets and
access to them, to increase cost recovery from beneficiaries, to



- ix -
improve monitoring and evaluation, for instance, were to be tried
through the five sub-projects (plus Bhima, the IFAD-financed sub-
project), through up-grading the already commissioned Girna and
Mula sub-projects, through an experiment with higher standards on
a pilot area of the Jayakwadi project, and through supplementary
training of engineering and agricultural staff.
5.       The specific goals on the five sub-projects, each at
different stages of completior when the Credit began, were to
complete specific construction targets to agreed standards by
1984 (with disbursement allowed ..ntil end 1985 to accommodate
delays). None of the five sub-projects was expected to be
completed during the time slice. Major construction was expected
to go on until 1987/8 for the Krishna sub-project, to 1990/1 for
the Upper Penganga and Warna sub-projects. The area actually
served by irrigation canals, 8,000 ha at the time cf appraisal,
was expected to rise to 85,500 ha by the end of the disbursement
period and to reach 494,000 ha by full development between 1993/4
and 199718, depending on the sub-project.
6.       At full development, on the net cultivable command area,
cropping intensity was expected to rise from 100-110% to
124-160X, depeuding on the sub-project. Net farm incomes were to
rise from three to five times what they would have been without
the project thanks to an combination of much higher yields and
shifting to more profitable crops. Annual incremental production
at full development was estimated at 945,000 T of grains and
pulses, 2,337,000 T of sugarcane, and 58,000 T of cotton. The
120,00 farm owning and/or operating families were to benefit both
from their increased incomes and from being able to provide an
additional 20 million days of work (equivalent to 67,000 full-
time jobs or about half a job/family) on their own farms.
Moreover, irrigation tnduced incremental demand was expected to
create the equivalent of 142,000 full-time jobs for farm laborers
and, based on an assumed multiplier effect, 79,000 additional
jobs in the non-farm sector.
Implementation Experience
7.       The PCR finds that 110X of the projected expenditure was
made to complete roughly 65% of the projected works, which
amounts to a cost over-run of about 70%. (The comparison cannot
be precise due to modifications in project content and in Credit
allocation.) The Credit was fully disbursed by the original
closing date. Since only two thirds of the works were completed
by this time, the implementation lag was substantial. Completing
the last third of the works, a Government of Maharashtra
responsibility, has been made more difficult by budgetary
stringencies since 1985 resulting from droughts and other
factors, and by the absence of the "carrot" of a follow-on IDA
since MCIP IV has been dropped from the lending program.



8.       The PCR stresses the difficulty of evaluating a time
slice of sub-projects that will be completed only 15 to 20 years
after the end of the time slice, "particularly when only few
agricultural activities have been undertaken, especially when
these have been poorly monitored" (Para 8.10, p. 26). Indeed,
very little of the 494,000 irrigable command to be created by the
five sub-projects was actually being irrigated, and most of that
was in the breaking-in period. It is understandable that the PCR
asks that its conclusions "be viewed with great skepticism" and
calls upon the Bank to review its practice of commissioning
"conventional' PCRs on time slices of long-term programs.
Granting and accepting these observations, certain patterns of
implementation do emerge from the experience with this project to
date, particularly when they are viewed together with the
experience of the Jayakwadi Project (Cr. 736 for Maharashtra
Composite Irrigation I Project, Cr. 1383/Ln. 2308 for Maharashtra
Water Utilization Project, and Cr. 1621 for Maharashtra Composite
Irrigation III Project).
Construction Performance
9.       The PCR concludes that contractual specifications and
procedures, as well as construction, improved, and that GOM
demonstrated its capacity to implement high-quality major civil
engineering works under force account. However, there were major
slippages for many reasons, from shortages of cement and fuel, to
shortages of funds from GOM, to inability to acquire needed land
on time, to disputes with contractors and between contractors and
their workers. Block contracting and "commissioning" does not
seem to have got very far during implementation. The PCR notes
that IDA supervision, which was heavily oriented towards
engineering, helped improve the quality of engineering
construction, but tnat IDA supervision can only go so far, and
'further improvement of the construction supervision of ID
(Irrigation Department) staff is necessary in order to enforce
quality standards in contractual work" (Para 8.7) In fact, IDA
supervision did concentrate on policing the quality of
construction and was criticized within IDA as too heavy,
reinforcing the PCR's conclusion on this point.
10.      The project was only partly successful in getting higher
enaineerina standards adopted in project implementation, either
on the sub-projects being financed or in the irrigation sector
state-wide. Building systems to deliver to smaller chaks was
largely achieved state-wide (but this design parameter has tended
to become the standard India-wide too), though the chak siza was
reduced less than agreed. Manuals of construction standards were
elaborated and agreed by 1985. However, Government has backed
away from 'World Bank" standards which it considers "gold plated"
in several critical instances, notably canal lining, drainage.
and road standards.



- xi -
System Operation Performance
11.      Firstly, a major objective of Bank policy in this and
other recent Indian projects has been to change the predominant
operational mode of irrigation systems in most of India to that
used in northwest India. In the former (shejpali), which is
practiced in Maharashtra, engineers agree with farmers to supply
the irrigation water required for a specific "sanctioned"
cropping pattern.   Because shejpali allows government officials
great discretion in water allocation, it is an invitation to
collusion between them and better-off farmers. She4pali
generally results in concentration of irrigation water on
lucrative, high-water-use crops (e.g. sugarcane, rice, bananas &
hot-season groundnuts) towards the head end of the canals and/or
in hot season, when water is most valuable, with irregular or no
water delivery to tail reaches. Shejpali generally results in
very complicated, if not impossible, gate operations to deliver
the water where and when it is needed for sanctioned crops, and,
in fact, in chaotic system operation and extremely inefficient
use of the canal water. In the latter (warabandi), the system
operates automatically from the distributary down, allowing no
discretion to government operators; water delivered is
proportional to land commanded, regardless of cropping pattern,
and irrigators below the outlet share water by taking turns.
Warabandi operation has led to much greater efficiency in canal
water use than shejpali, and to much more equitable distribution
of water within the commands.
12.      Under Maharashtra Composite Irrigation II, the Bank
hoped to convince the State's Irrigation Department (ID) to
convert to warabandi (see SAR, Para. 3.10, especially footnote
1). All new canals under the five sub-projects were to be sized
for warabandi operation. (However, it is a mark of lack of
consensus or of confusion that the system was to be gated below
the distributary, which would have been pointless under warabandi
operation.) Canal sizing is not a matter covered by the PCR, so
it is assumed that they were sized for warabandi operation.
However, ID officials were not convinced to adopt warabandi-type
operation and this has not been done. The last SPN (November
1985) reported that "rigid shejpali' (a sanctioning system where
water entitlements are proportional to crops sanctioned, not to
area commanded) was being gradually introduced in Mula, Krishna,
Kukadi and Upper Pex)ganga sub-projects, but that no form of
rotational water supply was being practiced elsewhere. (see
discussion below under Findings and Lessons)
13.      A second system-operation objective of the Bank was to
change the timing of irrigation and, in so doing, the cropping
pattern. The appraisal report assumed that the sub-projects
would be operated to carry over water through the hot-season in
order to be able to give the command area a pre-monsoon soak,



- xii -
thereby making it possible to plant the kharif earlier and,
consequently, to grow both an irrigated kharif crop and an
irrigated rabi crop on the same piece of land. The cropping
pattern and irrigated cropping intensity assumed by the SAR are
prAdicated on this development, which did not take place. In the
instance, there was no water left for a pre-monsoon soak for a
variety of reasons, including droughts, and shifts in the
cropping pattern, especially to hot-season crops which used up
all water left at the end of rabi.
14.      Since the system was not operated as the SAR anticipated
in these two regards, the agriculture practiced on the irrigated
command was quite different from what the SAR anticipated.
Agricultural Performance
15.      It is too early to evaluate agricultural performance.
The PCR has done the best that can be done at this stage basfd on
the two sub-projects that are the most advanced: Krishna etd
Kukadi. As f that mission in February 1987, there were 33,400
ha of commissioned cultivable command area (73% of the 46,000 ha
expected by that time by the SAR) out of 220,000 ha of cca (cf.
206,000 ha foreseen by the SAR) expected to be irrigated under
these two sub-projects at full development. The area being
examined here is the 15X of the commands closest to the head
works and therefore most likely to be well served with irrigation
water. (In other words, the other 85% may well not get as much
water as reliably as the part from which the extrapolation has
been made.) Based on agricultural experience in these areas, the
PCR has made courageous assumptions about what is likely to
happen over the entire commands from now to full development and
beyond. These are the best that can be made now, and it is not
likely to be possible to Improve upon them for some time. Here
are the conclusions.
1) Because irrigation works are delayed, irrigation
benefits are delayed.
2) Even in these areas, which are the head reaches of
the systems, the systems cannot deliver crop water needs for more
than 502 of the command area in kharif. As a result, the kharif
irrigated cropping intensity is lower than the SAR anticipated
(though overall kharif cropping intensity is about as expected
because more land has continued to be farmed using the rains).
Rabi irrigated cropping intensity has been about as anticipated,
and hot season (zaid) intensity somewhat higher than anticipated.
3) Ex-post, it appears that, on balance, the SAR over-
estimated the yields irrigation would bring and, perhaps more
importantly, under-estimated the yields farmers were already
getting under rainfed conditions.



- xiii -
4) Actual input prices have been and are expected to
continue to be far higher than predicted at appraisal (Table 15)
but then so, presumably, are the output prices (PCR assumptions
not specified).
Taking into consideration the dangers of generalizing from the
present situarion, when farmers who have recently received
irrigation are very much still learning by doing, it appears that
head-reach farmers are concentrating irrigation water on high
value crops like hot-season groundouts and sugarcane (to the
extent that new restrictions permit them to). The main reasons
benefits are falling short of expectations are differences
between the predictions on without-project and with-project
yields at appraisal and those being made now, as well as the
devastating effect of the delay in benefits on their net present
worth. It is not clear whether the shift (relative to SAR
estimates) to hot-season groundnuts and sugarcane from low-value
irrigated crops like sorghum and pulses raises or lowers the
economic irr. However, for farmers who pay little for irrigation
water, the financial interest in growing these very water-using
crops is clear.
16.      As regards agricultural services, the PCR finds no
difficulty in marketing outputs or in getting inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides) to farmers. (It is known, from studies
preparatory to the Narmada Sagar Project, that Girna sub-project
cotton farmers truck their cotton to Madhya Pradesh to be
exploited by private middlemen instead of selling to the
Maharashtra Government monopoly.) Extension to a 'tpt to
irrigation, using the T&V system, was not effective (Paras
4.6-7). The same is true of adaptive agricultural research for
irrigated vertisol conditions. The PCR does not comment on land-
shaping and credit for land-shaping, a problem in the nearby
Jayakwadi project.
Health Performance
17.      The malaria control measures undertaken in connection
with the project were effective. This is a striking contrast to
simultaneous developments during implementation of Upper Krishna
Irrigation Project (Cr. 788), a short distance down-stream from
the Krishna and Warna sub-projects in Karnataka, where malaria
was introduced and made significant headway during project
construction. (This problem is now being addressed under the
Upper Krishna II Project, currently being apptaised.)
Training Performance
18.      The Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI), started
at Aurangabad under the project, has flourished and become a
model for WALMIs in other Indian states. It is, of course,



- xiv -
difficult to measure to impact of training, but the Aurangabad
WALMI is highly regarded. It is to be presumed that it has been
useful, not just for the project but for the Maharashtra
irrigation sector as a whole, in supplementing the normal
training of civil engineers and agriculturalists called upon to
work in the irrigation sub-sector.
Resettlement & Rehabilitation Performance
19.      The SAL estimated that the five sub-projects would force
resettlement of about 16,000 families (20,000 counting Bhima, the
IFAD-financed sub-project) from 282 affected villages. This is a
rather large number for the size of the commands. The
submergence area equals 11% of the net cca (cf. 25% for Bhima
sub-project). As the SAR noted "The relatively large area of
submergence in relation to the areas put under irrigation is a
result of the flat topography at the storage sites, and also
includes land lost to canals." (SAR, Para 3.17)
20.      The PCR does not report on resettlement experience.  The
f:nal IDA SPN report found that resettlement was encountering
moderate problems, except for "major problems but being
adequately addressed" for the 24 villages being affected by Upper
Wardha. Of 132 villages reportedly affected (cf. 282 in SAR), 74
were reported to have been moved and 21 in process. The aide
memoire stated that resettlement had been completed where dams
were storing water and was in progress elsewhere, but that "there
is no monitoring of post settlement status of oustees, and this
should be followed up by detailed inspections." Resettlement was
an on-going concern of SPN missions, though more often in terms
of scheduling to avoid delays in civil works than in terms of
adequacy vis-a-vis Bank guidelines. For instance, the November
1984 SPN recommended, "organizing resettlement before end of
November 1984 of persons affected by reservoir submergence in
Varna Project so that gorge filling car be completed this year
and further postponement of construction of dtam can be avoided."
The penultimate SPN mission of February-March 1985 reported, "The
norms adopted by GOM for resettlement are satisfactory according
to the guidelines of the Bank."
Rate of Return
21.      The SAR calculated rates of return for each of the five
sub-projects as a whole, that is from their inceptioas (1968 to
1976) to their expected completions (1987 to 1991) with benefits
and recurrent costs extending beyond. The PCR did the same. The
SAR reckoned that the economic irr to the resources engaged in
the sub-projects ranged from 14Z for Warna to 18% for Upper
Wardha and Krishna. The PCR re-estimate, based on projections of
the agricultural results from the two most-advanced sub-projects
(see caveat under "Agricultural Results" above) and based on the



- xv -
most realistic projections of future funding levels by GOM, give
economic irrs ranging from less than 0% for Krishna and Warna to
61 for Upper Wardha. ,he SAR average for the five was 15%; the
PCR average, 1%. To the extent that PCR estimates can be
trusted, they show that the over-all investment in the five sub-
projects was not well spent, giving less return than the presumed
marginal investment in India -- about 12%.
22.      What neither the SAR nor the PCR tell us is whether the
investments from 1979 foiward have been worth making. That,
after all, was the relevant question in 1979, when, according to
the SAR, Rs 1,359 million in 1979 Rupees (1979 $ 158 million) had
already been irretrievably sunk into the five sub-projects. Were
they worth finishing? Disregarding all costs and benefits before
198011 (and still accepting all other SAR and PCR assumptions),
the economic returns t. resources engaged and to be engaged in
the five sub-projects from 1980 onwards are as follows:
Returns to post-1979 Investments
Sub-proiect                 To Finish Projects
SAR Estimates       PCR Estimates
Krishna                    67%                 0%
Kukadi                     26%                 5%
Upper Penganga             22%                 5%
Upper Wardha               20%                 7%
Warna                      19%                 7%
In short, if all costs prior to 1979 are considered as sunk
costs, there is a higher return to completing the sub-projects
than the rates shown, which are the returns to the sub-projects
as wholes. Based on the PCR assumptions, completing the sub-
projects does have a positive net social value, but not as high
as that presumed to be available on other investments -- 12%.
Sustainability
23.      Irrigation in India can be eminently sustainable, as the
orderly functioning of some systems more than fifteen centuries
old demonstrates. The principal menaces to sustainability in
this instance are four: 1) filling of reservoirs due to
siltation; 2) deterioration of systems due to inadequate
maintenance; 3) deterioration of systems due to destruction of
canal linings by expansive vertisols and their disappeerance
through erosion; and 4) loss of command area to farming due to
build-up of salinity and water-logging.



- xvi -
24.      Regarding the first, the slopes up-catchment from the
reservoirs of the five sub-projects (and of the two modernization
sub-projects too) are modorate. Therefore, siltation is
moderate. Even though reservoirs are shallow, their useful life
should be long.
25.      Regarding the second, Bank missions have repeatedly
found maintenance to be inadequate in the MCIP II sub-projects,
as in most others in Maharashtra, in India, and in the world.
However, improvements have been realized. It is reasonable to
expect that, once farmers see benefits from the projects, they
will see to it that Government somehow maintains the systems or
will somehow do it themselves.
26.      Regarding the third, there is understandable concern
that there may not be a way of lining small distributaries and
field channels that is both sustainable and affordable. The Bank
has recognized the need to keep looking for the cheapest
sustainable way of stabilizing small canals by supporting
continuing experimentation in irrigation creditsiloans made since
MCIP II, notably MWUP (Cr. 1383/Ln.2308). MCI? III (Cr. 1621),
and in Upper Krishna I (Cr. 788). A number of Indian irrigation
departments and academic institutions are also working on this
problem, with and without Bank support.
27.      Regarding the fourth, trends suggested by the PCR are
ominous. In black-soil projects from Bargi and Tawa in Madhya
Pradesh to Tungabhadra in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, failure
to allocate irrigation water equitably (coupled with failure to
pass on a reasonable portion of the public cost to beneficiaries)
has allowed head-reach farmers to concentrate a lot of water on a
small part of the command area, generally to grow sugarcane, rice
and bananas. This has frequently led to waterlogging ad
sometimes to salt build-up. These conditions can be overcome,
but it is better all around to avoid them in the first place by
encouraging economical irrigation-water use through rationing to
produce water scarcity (as in warabandi), or much higher water
charges for high-water-use crops (a simple proxy for volumetric
charges), or by encouraging ground water development, preferably
by some combination of these. The authorities responsible would
be well advised to monitor such trends in the MCIP II sub-
projects.
Findings and Lessons
28.      I.  Economic worth of vertisol gravity irrigation
projects. The MCIP II PCR confirms an impression from other
gravity-irrigation projects in the Deccan on vertisols. Given
the way these projects are now being constructed and operated,
the benefits do not justify the costs. This may not be so for
completion of a project where there are substantial sunk costs,



- xvii -
but new starts should certainly be avoided until some of the
obvioua problems are overcome.
29.      The findings of the PCR for MCIP II confirm findings of
the appraisal missions for MCIP III (Jayakwadi) in 1984 and of
Upper Krishna II in 1988. In both of those cases, as in the MCIP
II sub-projects, construction was so substantially delayed and
unit costs rose so much above projections that projects expected
to give decent rates of return, above but not radically above the
presumed opportunity cost of resources, in fact, taken as wholes,
do not. In the case of MCIP III and UKP II, given that sunk
costs are sunk, appraisal missions found that it paid to build
the next section however. (But the MCIP III appraisal mission
found that it would not pay to extend the Majlegaon canal in a
third phase, even with all earlier phases sunkl)
30.      There are a number of reasons why these projects are not
spectacular investments from an economic point of view. Terrain
is flat, yet undulating. River flow is highly seasonal, so that
substantial storage is required. But the best darm sites are not
good ones, requiring long, low dams that create shallow
reservoirs from which a high proportion of the water left after
monsoon evaporates. Since reservoirs are shallow, to store the
needed water, they must be large, flooding a lot of the best
riverine farmland relative to the size of eventual commands, and
forcing the resettlement of a lot of people relative to those
benefitted. And since tErrain is undulating, construction of
canals is costly, as is land levelling and/or shaping so that
canal water can be used. Where the command is narrow besides, as
it is in Narmada Sagar and in the third phase of Majlegaon, the
ratio of main-canal length to area commanded is low so that, in
some listances, the irrigation system is not worth building.
(Irrigation tmder Narmada Sagar is justified, up to a point,
because the immense power benefits justify dam construction.)
Moreover, because vertisols are both expansive and easily
transportable, canal lining is essential to maintain and to
operate the system, and also very expensive because of the steps
that need to be taken to protect lining against soil expansion.
Furthermore, the very water-retentive (that ls, hard to drain)
vertisols, while very rich, are also very hard to irrigate or
even to farm under rainfed conditions during monsoon.
31.      In spite of all the above, the evidence suggests that
the completion of already-started vertisol gravity-irrigation
projects usually give good returns on investment provided they
are constructed and commissioned expeditiously and operated more
or less according to plan, so that anticipated farming results
can be realized. That is what the MCIP II SAR and PCR show. So
does Bank analysis of other vertisol gravity-irrigation projects
in the Deccan.



- xviii -
32.      However, in almost all cases, these results have not
been obtained in fact, due to lengthy construction delays with
consequent delays in benefits, due to large cost over-runs, and
due to system operation and farming on the command radically
different from what was anticipated at appraisal.
33.      II.  Using composite proiects to achieve sectoral aoals.
MCIP II was, in a sense, only incidentally about time slices of
five sub-projects, etc. It had the broader and, in economic
terms, more important objective of changing irrigation sector
policy in Maharashtra in many important ways. As the discussion
above shows, these ranged through mode of system operation,
design and service standards, mode of contracting and of
controlling quality of construction, cost recovery, and training
the professional engineers and agriculturalists who deal with
irrigation. In these matters, the Bank was sure that it knew
better ways of doing things. In some instances, as of appraisal,
the Bank was sure th:.t its sector work and its earlier dealings
with Maharashtra had convinced the relevant decision makers about
new standards; canal lining is an example. In other instances,
it was assumed that studies to be carried out under MCIP II would
furnish the needed proof; volumetric water charges and warabandi
operation are examples.
34.      During implementation, at management levels, the Bank
was sure that its strategy was aucceeding. When the next
Maharashtran 'rrigation project was presented to the Board on
June 9, 1983, the speech took for granted the success of MCIP II;
"...new design and operational standards were introduced for the
whole State" the most important of which were "upgrading and
lining of minor canals." As the PCR shows, and as a careful
reading of SPR reports shows that technicians knew all too well,
institutinnal and policy change was quite modest; Maharashtran
irrigation policy makers were much less convinced about the
system changes the Bank believed in than was assumed.
35.      To some extent, the Bank itself is less sure about some
of the 'irrigation for the 21st Century" innovations now than it
was in 1979. There is less emphasis on volumetric water charges
and on small balancing reservoirs to make possible flexible water
delivery on demand. The MCIP III appraisal mission of 1985
backed away from earlier insistence on full canal lining and full
conversion to warabandi operations. A look at the Jayakwadi
project, different parts and aspects of which wre covered under
four Bank projects (MCIP I, MCIP II, MWUP, and MCIP III) shows
that the Bank itself has been learning from experience and
adapting its standards.
36.      The Bank's aspirations for 'irrigation for the 21st
Century" conflicted with its desire to convert the system to
warabandi operation. The desire to be able to deliver water to



- xix -
meet the individualized demands of farmers let to experimentation
with or acceptable of structures that are inconsistent with
warabandi, or which, if not technically inconsistent, would be
extremely difficult to operate in order to run the system to
warabandi specifications. The many gates are an example. During
Implementation, consultants under the Bank-implemented UNDP
project had the difficult task of resolving these conflicting
aspirations, which was made more difficult by the size of the
systems. A certain amount of confusion ensued. This undoubtedly
compounded what was probably a strong reluctance on the part of
many in ID to convert to warabandi in the first place.
37.      Some attempts to chan.e policv have succeeded.  The
WALMI, to give engineers and agriculturalists specific, practical
training on irrigation, is a fixed part of the landscape; the ex-
Director of the Aurangabad WALMI is much in demand to help in
duplicating the Maharashtrian experience in other states. More
canals are being lined. Chaks are smaller. Although the PCR
doesn't say so, progress has been made in resettlement and
rehabilitation, and Maharashtra's policies are being imitated by
other states.
38.      Nevertheless, the MCIP II experience, and the Bank's
subsequent experience in the Maharashtran irrigation sector, show
how hard it is to bring about policy change, even where the
policy dialogue is sustained and intense, and where it is backed
up with substantial loans, with very specific covenants and pilot
trials to bring out the facts where the borrowers was not
convinced. Most attempts to get policy and standards changed
under MCIP II failed. Though the PCR is circumspect in saying
so, construction quality is still poor. State-wide, Maharashtra
is still operating its gravity systems under a sanctioning
system, and the shejpali is not even more noticeably 'rigid' than
before. As part of discussions on "restructuring" MCIP III,
Maharashtra is proposing cutting back radically on canal lining,
drainage, land-shaping and road investments, all design and
policy matters which the Bank thought were settled in 1979. So
the policy dialogue continues.
39.      III.  Unanswered questions and a research agenda.
Review of the MCIP II PCR highlights some of our uncertainties
regarding gravity irrigation and irrigated farming in Deccan
vertisols.
40.      Farmers persistently use less irrigation water and do
less irrigated farming in kharif *"han anyone anticipated.  There
are several plausible theories, but no conclusive answers.  The
PCR suggests that system design is responsible.  FAO Cooperative
Programme work "reformulating" MCIP III has generated a model
that gives the same conclusions.  Canal sizing will permit kharif
irrigation of less than half the command. There is not enough



- xx -
storage to irrigate more kharif and still have enough left for
rabi, hot season and perennials. But the results of this quick
and rough model are somewhat counterintuitive. As one Bank staff
member has commented on the FAO/CP model and its rivals, 'None of
the methods adequately represents the moisture carried over to
the rabi in these very highly retentive black cotton soils. None
were adequately calibrated against known scheme performance."
(Albinson-to-Lafourcade of 10 February 1988) All of the models
are deficient in taking into account two basic facts of farming
in the rabi-dominant, vertisol areas: soil moisture storage and
carry-over into dry periods, and deliberate water-stressing of
plants by farmers that is economically optimal, not agronomically
optimal (as are the modelled water requirements). Missing these
critical facts about rabi-dominant, vertisol farming means not
knowing whether farmers' reluctance to use canal water in kharif
stems from inadequate canal size, inadequate storage, poor system
operation resulting in unreliable or no canal water, the
difficulty of controlling weeds on deep vertisols because they
are so mucky, inadequate land-shaping, farmers' not having
learned how to irrigate, adequacy of rainfall, inflexibility of
system operation and inability to respond to droughts, the
sanctioning and water-charge system, or something else.
41.      A properly specified simulation calibrated against known
performance would shed light on this and other questions,
possibly even answer them definitively. At least three
simulations exist or are being created that might helps the
SIMYIELD model being constructed by S.G.Narayanamurthy as part of
the Rajasthan Canal Project; the Danish Hydraulics Institute's
SHE ; and a new simulation being constructed ab initio for MCIP
III by Hydraulics Research under a trust-fund arrangement. By
applying them creativelv, it should be possible to test some of
the hypotheses mentioned above. It s'ould also be possible to
improve the quality of our answers to other questions, such as:
- what would be the economically optimal allocation of
canal water between kharif, rabi, hot season, and perennials, and
what incentives would bring farmers' interests into line with
that national interest?;
- given climate and reservoir configuration, is it
better to hold water over for a pre-monsoon soak, thereby losing
a lot to evaporation but advancing the kharif and making more-
kharif-rabi double cropping possible, or to use the same water in
rabi or hot season?;
- given canal-water scarcity and historical, uncertain
patterns of rainfall, how much irrigation in kharif is
economically optimal?; what is the best degree of water-
stressing?; what is the minimum irrigation-water slug that
farmers can handle and the system can deliver?;



- xxi -
- what degree of 'water-spreading' or "water-
concentrating is optimal?; should sugarcane, rice and bananas be
banned or restricted?;
- what are the comparable results of operating these
gravity-fed, vertisol systems under shejpali or under warabandi
or under different variants of these?; and
- what is the optimal sizing of canals and storage dams?
Throughout our protracted policy dialogue with Maharashtra and
with other Indian states on these issues, the Bank has evolved
answers to these questions heuristically. The Bank has, to some
extent, allowed those answers, sometimes explicit, sometimes
implicit, to evolve in response to increasing experience. Now,
there is a convergence of issues arising in the MCIP II PCR with
those constantly axising in other vertisol gravity-irrigation
projects. The accumulation of experience has improved our
ability to specify what has to be modelled. Therefore, there is
an opportunity to make simulation useful and to improve answers
to the questions that have been posed in the design and
implementation of MCIP II, as well as of both its predecessors
and successors.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Maharashtra is India's third largest State,  extending  to  308,000
kn,2 and with a population of 64.2 million (1985). Total cultivable area is
abDut 18.2 million ha (1985) of which about 2.5 million ha are under
ir.-igation. The present irrigation potential is estimated at 6.3 million ha
and with improved irrigation efficiencies would increase to 8.9 million ha,
including 2.7 million from groundwater sources. The extent of surface
irrigation is constrained by the seasonality of the rivers, by topography
and by the fact that most of the soils are black basaltic vertisols (black
cotton soils) which are difficult to handle under irrigation. Groundwater
resources are limited to shallow, low-yielding albeit widespread aquifers.
1.2      Commencing   in   the  early  sixties  the  Bank  has  supported  a
substantial share of Maharashtra's irrigation development programme. The
first project was the Purna Irrigation Project (CR.23-IN, US$13 million,
1962). This was followed by the Maharashtra Irrigation Project I (CR.736-IN,
US$70 million) approved in 1977, which was the first in a series of
composite irrigation projects in the State. The project provided support for
development in the Jayakwadi area using water from the Godavari river
impounded by a dam at Paithan. It further included the upgrading of
irrigation and drainage systems in the Purna Project. The project achieved
most of its physical targets but, like several other schemes, remained
widely under-utilized. This led to the financing of the Maharashtra Water
Utilization Project (CR.1383 and LN.2308-IN) in 1983, which was designed to
bridge the gap between the speedy "creation of surface irrigation potential"
<1> during the 1970s and the slow utilization of this potential.
1.3      The MCIP II <2> project (CR.954-IN) was approved  in  October  1979
and was to finance a five-year time slice of a composite programme
consisting of six new irrigation schemes (Shima, Krishna, Kukadi, Upper
Penganga, Upper Wardha and L.arna), and partial modernization work on two
existing schemes, Mula and Girna. The Bhima scheme was subsequently taken
out of the package and financed by IFAD. c3> The total area commanded by the
six new schemes would ultimately comprise 620,000 ha (ICA), all located in
the drought-prone Deccan Plateau. The MCIP II was to cost USS452.9 million
of which US$210 million was to be firanced by the IDA credit.
--------------------------------------
4l>      Construction of irrigation infrastructure with emphasis on major
works.
'2>      t MCIP II is the common abbreviation used for the Maharashtra
Irrigation Project II.
43'      Separate PCR is available with IFAD.



1.4      This report is based on a review of the SAR, the Project  Agreement
(PA), the Development Credit Agreement (OCA), IDA Supervision reports,
project files, a working paper prepared by GOM, and data compiled by an
FAO/CP mission that visited GOM and the project areas in February 1987.
II. PROJECT IOENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1      In 1977 the GOI and GOM  presented six major on-going surface water
irrigation schemes - Bhima (126,000 ha), Krishna (74,000 ha), Kukadi
(132,000 ha), Upper Penganga (125,000 ha), Upper Wardha (75,000 ha), and
Warna (87,0O0 ha) for IDA financing. Reports for these schemes had been
formulated in the 1960s and construction work had been initiated by GOI
between 1968 and 1972. Project preparation, involving staff from the Bank,
the  FAO  CP  and  GOM's  project  preparation   agency  (WAPCOS) started in
November   1977.   The   traditional   project-by-project   evaluation   was
supplemented in this case by an assessment of the role of the irrigation
sector as a whole in Maharashtra's agricultural and economic development
context. This sector review took place in late 1978 and was the first in
India for major irrigation projects. Specific recommendations for the
planning, design, construction and operation of the proposed schemes were
developed and set out in a separate Sectoral Background Paper which was
incorporated   in   the  SAR  as  Volume  II.  The  principal  findings  and
recommendations were finalized with GOM during appraisal in February 1979.
The recommendations were formalized during negotiation with an assurance
that GOM would implement the project works in accordance with agreed
planning criteria, and design and construction standards and that it would
operate the schemes in accordance with agreed operational criteria.
ProJect Components
2.2      The  five-year  time slice project, as planned at appraisal, was to
assist the continued construction of the five major irrigation schemes,
Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga, and Warna, starting from
October 1979, together with the partial modernization of the existing Girna
and Hula schemes. Full development of the new schemes was estimated to be
reached between 1993 and 1998. -c> The project comprised the following seven
components as given in the SAR Vol. I.
a) Construction work on 11 dams, construction of about 900 km of main
and branch canals together with construction of distribution canals
(down to the farmgate); drains to serve an area of 95,000 ha; and
about 620 km of new and improved link roads to serve an area. of
85,500 ha in the five new irrigation schemes.
b) Modernization of canals and drains in the Mula and Girna Irrigation
schemes.
This is not specifically indicated in the SAR, but can be gathered
from the benefit streams given for the calculation of the economic
rate of return (ERR)



c) Strengthening of the CAD organization, including reorganization of
agricultural extension and applied research and water managenent
services and operation and maintenance on all seven schemes.
d) Procurement of vehicles and equipment for project construction and
for operation and maintenance.
e) Expansion of a GOM pilot water management programme.
f) Project monitoring and evaluation.
g) Implementation of a training programme for and development and
water management specialists.
2.3      Moreover  the  subsequent  on-farm  development  (OFD)  works,   as
described in the SAR Vol. III <1> are as follows:
a) completion of sub-minors and field channels on 76,300 ha;
b) lining of sub-minors and field channels down to the eight ha outlet
on 55,800 ha of ICA.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Credit Negotiations and Effectiveness
3.1      A major issue raised by the World Bank during  negotiation  of  the
IDA credit, held in August 1979, concerned the proposal of lining all canals
down to the eight ha block. It seems that the analysis to Justify this
proposition did not take into account that at the initial stage of the canal
construction (creation of irrigation potential) water would be relatively
abundant. It could therefore be argued that only those canals which would be
permanently used needed initial lining while lining of distribution networks
which are rotated 7 days on/7 days off could be deferred (at the expense of
higher costs) until a later stage when the project would approach full water
utilization (para 3.17). Faced with financial constraints the Government,
towaras the end of the project, followed this course of action and thereby
ignored one of the covenants (para 4.15).
3.2      In spite of the fact that the OCA became effective on July 16, 1980
and GOM made strong efforts to put into motion the necessary institutional
arrangements   for   project   implementation,   the  establishment  of  the
engineering and CADA divisions within the five command areas took  at  least
six months to one year. This was mainly due to a shortage of funds and
unavoidable bureaucratic procedures. In the meantime, construction of the
dams continued and credit withdrawals for expenditure which occurred after
16 October 1979 were made immediately, which was in line with thr DCA.
1>      Not cleatly specified in Vol. I.



- 4 -
B. Implementation Schedule
3.3      At  appraisal  the  project's  completion  was  scheduled  for   30
September 1984. In the OCA the loan closing date was however extended to 31
December  1985.  Although  the  project  closed  in   time,   its   physical
achievements remained well below SAR targets. The project works under the
IDA time slice are now expected to be completed by 1990, i.e. with a delay
of five years. However, completion of the overall programme, including CADA
works, of the five new schemes is expected to be reached around 2000.
Comparison of the SAR estimated completion schedule with p-esent estimates
is made in Figures 1 to 5 for the five schemes.
3.4      In order to optimize returns on investments for  these  large-scale
irrigation projects particular care was to be taken in synchronizing
implementation of dams, canals, roads and distribution networks. This effort
was only partially successful as it was distorted by events (discussed
below) that were largely beyond the control of the individual project
construction management. Some of the schemes thus show a somewhat skewed
development, with considerable progress in dams and main canals but less in
distributaries and in command area development. In Uppe, Penganga an
encouraging effort was made to bring canal development into line with
creation of storage potential by only partial lining <1> of main canals that
would be completed when funds permit and by other careful scheduling of
works.
3.5      Activities   scheduled   under   the   Girna  and  Mula  Irrigation
Modernization Schemes are shown in Table 1. At Mula, they have been more or
less completed according to plan while at Girna progress has been mixed.
C.  Implementation of Individual Components <2>
Construction of Dams, Canals, Drains and Roads
3.6      The  numerous  sub-components  of the project and the intricate and
inconsistent SAR targeting, <3> together with subsequent revisions, preclude
an accurate quantification of achievements attributable to the time slice.
However, an approximate account of progress on major items is given below
and is also summarised in Table 2.
3.7      Oams.The SAR and OCA indicate the construction of 11 dams. Actually
according to the project funding only seven dams were to be financed, of
which three (Manikdoh, Dimbhe and Simbhora) turned out to be only partially
eligible for reimbursement because of already awarded major contracts that
were  unacceptable  to  IDA.  The degrees of completion of the seven dams at
closing date were as follows: two were in service, four were completed for
70% to 95% and one had barely reached 30% completion (Table 2).
<1>      Not to be confused with selected or deferred lining, this is lining
of the bed and toe portion only.
<2>      Strengthening of CADA, and Monitoring and Evaluation are covered
under Chapter IV.
'3>      Inconsistency between Volume I and III.



-5-
3.8      Major  conveyance  system.   The  description  of  the  project  in
Schedule 2 of the OCA stipulates the construction of about 900 km of main
and branch canals, while the SAR Vol. III provides for only 601 km. The
actual cumulative length of canal target in the five schemes over the time
slice works out at about 660 km, taking note of slight revisions made during
implementation in Kukadi and Upper Penganga systems. The overall progress at
closing date was about 500 km which is 83% of the SAR target.
3.9      Distribution systems.  Against an appraisal target of 88,600 ha  of
distribution network, about 58,300 ha or 66% of target was achieved. Lining
and completion of canal structures is lagging considerably. <1>
3.10     OFO works.  These comprise construction  of  field  channels/drains
with relevant structures, about 20% of lining, and land shaping, the latter
at farmers' expense. An irrigation potential of 76,300 ha (ICA) was to be
created by closing date according to SAR Vol. III. The overall progress up
to 31 December 1985 has been 67,500 ha or about 88% of target. Lining was
completed on only 68% of the targeted 55,800 ha.
3.11     Drains.   Soils  in  the  areas  where  irrigation  has started are
reasonably well drained with no waterlogging observed so far. GOM therefore
has decided to defer investments into drainage systems and to take them up
on a selective basis at a later stage. Quantitative targets were not given
in the SAR but costs were estimated at 0.0 to 0.4% of total base cost for
the schemes.
3.12     Roads.  According to appraisal projection, a total of about 600  km
of CAD Foaids <2> were to be constructed/improved along with the requisite
cross drainage works. During implementation GOM had reduced the length to
552 km in order to restrict the investment on this activity to the original
cost as provided in the SAR, although no such restriction was placed on the
cost of irrigation components which have escalated by over 70%. The
importance of the road sub-component was not fully recognized by ID. It is
therefore not surprising that ID's financing of the road programme was
discontinued after closing date. Any future improvement or extension of the
road network in new project command areas would be planned and implemented
under PWD's regular programmes. The road test reaches of the project
however, are continuing to be monitored.
3.13     ImPlementation  experience.   The  simultaneous  implementation  of
eight major schemes (including Bhima) at widely apart locations was in
itself an important achievement. Regular Bank supervision missions with
considerable  input  of  engineering   expertise   gave   much   appreciated
professional support and led to close cooperation in overcoming numerous
technical and other problen.s. Support of the agronomic aspects has, however,
been extremely weak. Major factors affecting and delaying implementation are
discussed below.
-l>      The estimate is very rough as all canals are in various stages of
construction.
<2>      It is noted that canal service roads are not included in this
component except when serving both substantial public uses and
canal service staff. No mention was made on the length of such
roads in the SAR.



-6-
3.14     Severe shortages of cement, steel and fuel persisted until 1984 and
were a major setback in all construction works. The traditionally critical
land acquisition and resettlement problems also turned out to be major
retarding factors in several schemes. They were particularly damaging in
Kukadi, Warna and Upper Wardha but could have been softened by better
planning (para 3.33). Protracted procedures for acquisition of forest lands
were delaying at least two schemes. Unexpectedly high price escalations also
slowed down the pace of implementation (para 3.37).
3.15     The  project  was  also  not spared contractor-induced construction
delays (especially Upper Wardha and Warna) and suspension of works due to
labor  disputes.  In  the case of poor contractor performance at the masonry
dam of Upper Wardha, ID reduced slightly the volume of the contract and
awarded  that volume of works to a competing contractor which had a salutary
effect on the former.
Planning and Design Standards
3.16     One  major  objective  of  IDA  support  for  the  project  was  to
demonstrate the effectiveness of new planning and design standards and to
strengthen quality control. This objective was to be reached through
application of new technologies, the upgrading of design manuals, the
continuous experimentation towards improved technical solutions, especially
with regard to black cotton soils and through manpower development.
3.17     Key elements in the upgrading  of  standards  were  the  lining  of
canals from the source of supply to the 8 ha outlet and the reduction of
chak size from 40 ha and more down to 8 ha. Another criteria was that canal
systems should be capable of operating effectively at one half of design
capacity. While the latter was adopted in all systems, the concept of lining
all canals turned out to be a proposal that GOM was not prepared to follow
indiscriminately. First lining of field channels was restricted to 20% of
total length, then, towards the end of the project ID introduced selective
lining of the distribution network (disnet) below capacities of 100 cusecs
(about 3 m3/sec). Lining would be limited to reaches adjacent to structures
and to specially exposed or permeable reaches. ID is now considering
reducing lining of field channels to as low as 10%. As all disnets would be
operated on a rotational basis, the omission of lining in black cotton soils
is bound to have negative effects on canal performance (reduced efficiency)
and O&M. Furthermore if lining is deferred until the systems have become
operational, the cost could increase significantly, as was experienced in
the existing Hula and Girna schemes. The stability problem of unlined canals
cannot be overcome by resorting to grass sodding of the invert as some ID
staff have proposed. In fact the present trend marks a return to the low-
standard approach to irrigation that prevailed before MCIP II and which IDA
analysts proved to be wasteful in both a physical and economic sense.
3.18     The 8 ha chak concept evolved in other  parts  of  India  was  also
greatly mod fied as this size turned out to be too small for the adopted
delivery system <1> and under existing land tenure and other socio-economic
conditions. Therefore the new chaks developed ranged from 15 to 25 ha.
-----------------------------------
<la      Shejpali and rigid shejpali (para 3.28) require gated outlets:
-reduced chaks therefore mean increased number of gates with
correspondingly increased O&tM.



3.19     Deficiencies  in  planning  and  design  were  present  in  several
schemes. At Warna the main canals were aligned with more consideration given
to connand area maximization than to cost effectiveness although water and
not land is the limiting factor. Consequently canals hive been constructed
on steeper side slooes with harder excavation materials than necessary. At
Upper Wardha the lack of sufficient lead in canal design restricted the
execution of canal works. Additional model studies required for the spillway
at Upper Penganga delayed works for about one year. In the present
implementation set-up there is too little feedback from construction circles
to the Central Design Organization (COO) at Nasik, a constraint that should
be tackled energetically. In some schemes out-dated concrete canal lining
specifications were used and several SPN missions have commented on the need
to improve contract specifications in order to produce lining of desired
characteristics.
3.20     Lift   irrigation.    GOM   generally   sanctions  lift  irrigation
development up to a ceiling of 16% of available project water supplies.
However, it was not clear whether this percentage is taken into account when
dimensioning the total project command area. Although lift irrigators are
regular participants in the schemes, there is little CADA involvement. It
appears necessary for CADA to take the lead in ensuring optimum water
management also in lift irrigated areas.
Quality Control
3.21     As  envisaged  at  appraisal,  the  project  was  instrumental   in
establishing a quality control organization that has the status of an
independent circle with divisions and sub-units in each of the seven
schemes. Quality control has been focussed on laboratory testing of
concrete, mortars and soils whereas the other aspect of quality control,
namely the continuous inspection of engineering works at site has so far
been clearly outside the responsibility of the QC units. Thus there has been
little correlation between quality achieved in the field and quality of e.g.
placing, compacting and curing adopted for concrete test specimens. No
attention has been paid by the QC units to workmanship like line, grade and
dimensions of finished works. ID officers have not been resolute enough to
reject sub-standard work, especially in canal lining and do not make
contractors strip back and replace unacceptable sections. This is now
changing, considerable improvement is noticeable between earlier and more
recent linings, even when allowing for ageing. The earthworks at Chandoli
dam, done departmentally, are of excellent quality technically as well as
economically.
3.22     Seepage and leakages  from  linings,  walls,  aqueducts  and  other
structures have been a quality control problem frequently addressed by Bank
missions who thereby helped to remedy the situation.
3.23     The dam safety panel that  was  set  up  for  the  project  visited
schemes  about  once  per  year  since 1983. Its recormendations were mainly
concerned with minor structural modifications, dam stability monitorlng, and
some   additional   investigations.   Bank   supervision  missions  revealed
inadequate attention to dam safety with respect to floods and arranged for a
specialist consultancy to review the situation at Kanher dam (Krishna) and
Isapur dam (Upper Penganga). The consultant outlined a prvogramme for
improved analyses that would make use of recent storm records and latest
stite of the art. The recommendations are reported to have been followed up
by the COO, but despite the obvious urgency of the matter no conclusive
results have yet emerged.



- 8 -
Modernization of Girna and Mula Irrigation Schemes
3.24     Modernization  comprises  an  array of O&M improvements, corrective
measures and new works such as lining and structures. This has been achieved
quite successfully at Mula but to a lesser degree at Girna for which no
apparent reasons were identified. At both schemes lining of existing canals
under rotation with tight off periods, difficult access, etc., turned out to
be overly expensive, time consuming and unattractive to the ldrger and more
efficient contractors. Drainage improvements could only be done after
extensive persuasion of farmers. While at Girna the organization of farmers'
groups (Outlet Committees) was weak and the introduction of rotational water
supply (RWS) very tardy, the response has been far better at Mula.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.25     No   supervision   mission   has   comprehensively  addressed  this
component. Construction equipment was procured on a scheme by scheme basis.
Warna, Upper Wardha and Upper Penganga with their large volumes of
departmental earthworks have absorbed the bulk of equipment (Table 8). These
earthworks were reported, managed, operated and maintained in an exemplary
way. A list of ICB procured machinery is given in Table 3.
Pilot Water Management
3.26     The   project   provided  continued  support  to  the  pilot  water
management programme that had been initiated under MCIP I at  the  Jayakwadi
scheme  and  also  made  provisions  for  extending the programme to the new
irrigation schemes of MCIP II. However insufficient direction was given in
the SAR on what the studies should actually focus on and accomplish. At
Jayakwadi the programme essentially continued to monitor the performance of
the  4,000  ha  "Pilot  Project"  and  the  5,800 ha "Farmers' project", the
difference being a lower level of infrastructural investment per unit in the
latter. MCIP I had established that farmers' response in taking up
irrigation, is closely linked to the level of irrigation service which in
turn  is  a  function  of  the  irrigation infrastructure provided. This was
confirmed under MCIP II, in that lower irrigation intensities were recorded
in the Farmers' Project, (13% average over four years). However this was not
significant enough to justify the substantially higher cost level of the
pilot project approach. Consequently the Farmers' Project's level of
infrastructure, especially lining of up to 10-15% only became the norm
adopted in most project areas. It is noted that this comparison is unlikely
to have taken long-term O&M implications into account.
3.27     In the five new command areas under MCIP II,  experimentation  with
lining materials and different structural designs has been referred to as
upilot projects" by ID, without however representing a true expansion of the
pilot water management studies as envisaged at appraisal. '> Since the
various testings were conducted in relative isolation the mission identified
certain duplication and recommends that results are better pooled and any
further studies be better coordinated. Overall the flanged semi-circular
spun RCC pipe of about 30 l/s capacity appears to have emerged as the most
--------------------------------------
c1>      The project also tested a buried pipe distribution system in an
area with land aquisition problems.



- 9 -
appropriate element for lining field channels in the black cotton soil
context.
Operational Procedures
3.28     A  major  "soft"  project  objective  was  the  abolishment  of the
shejpali  (on  demand)  system  of  water  allocation  in  favour   of   the
introduction of proportional delivery under warabandi. The she"pali system
works reasonably well in smaller schemes but becomes unmanageable in large
ones and is bound to lead to less demand and wasteful delivery problems.
Since the new schemes under the project are yet far from fully developed,
water availability has not yet become a serious constraint. The inherent
inadequacies  of  shejpali  have  therefore  not  yet  become   sufficiently
apparent. Consequently sufficient pressure has yet to build up to overcome
the natural resistance against changing an established system which after
all had been quite adequate in the smaller systems of the past. It does
permit a considerable influence by the irrigation authority vis-a-vis the
water user. However, on balance the performance of shejpali is inferior to
that of the proporticnal delivery system. It is clear that proportional
delivery would not only lessen waste and permit more equitable distribution
but would also provide a natural incentive towards higher irrigation
intensities, particularly during kharif. The introduction of rotational
water supply, involving'a shift from shejpali to "rigid shejpali" <1> has
been implemented on a pilot scale in several schemes. Later conversion to
proportional (area based) delivery would probably require the introduction
of  fixed  proportional  outlets  in  lieu of the present gated outlets. All
field channels are dimensioned to carry  a  30  1/s  farm  stream.  However,
handling  of  this size of flow by farmers is still a problem that should be
overcome by a more vigorous extension and training effort.
3.29     The benefits of an advancement of the kharif irrigation to June 1st
has been recognised. However, its implication, provision of carry-over
storage and the foregone production of rabi and summer crops, particularly
groundnuts, has not convincingly been established.
Training
3.30     At appraisal, training in water management and land development was
considered an essential project component in order to fill an apparent know-
how gap within the cadres of engineers as well as among agricultural
officers. Such supplementary training thus would strengthen ID's, Land
Development Agency's (LOA) and Agricultural Department's (AD) capabilities
to implement and successfully operate the MCIP II schemes. The Droject
therefore made provision to establish an institute that would undertake
through   appropriately   designed  courses,  both  initial  and  in-sFrvice
training. The initiative developed into a widely respected centre  known  as
the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) in Aurangabad. A prestilious
GOI award was received in 1984 in recognition of the pioneering work carried
out   by   the   Institute's   President  and  the  first  Director  in  its
establishment.
------------.-------------------------
<1.      A modified version in which timely restriction is imposed on the
delivery in turns, but on-demand is maintained.



- 10 -
3.31     Training activities have by and large been in  line  with  the  SAR
proposals. A total of 46 intensive, orientation, and special courses were
held for a total of about 1,200 participants. However, few of these were at
executive level. There seems to be a need for better coordination between
WALMI and ID/AD to overcome this shortcoming.
D. Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.32     During  the  project  period  a  total  of  254  villages have been
affected by the reservoir inundations compared to 282 estimated in the SAR;
the total number of resettler families is about 24,500 compared to an
estimated 20,000 at appraisal. Total expenditures involved for resettlement
in all schemes except for Upper Penganga, where the costs have not yet been
fully  recorded,  are  Rs28O  million  and  include  rehabilitation   costs,
compensation for land and houses and compensation due to court cases. The
total costs estimated in the SAR were about Rs 310 million.
3.33     The implementation of  this  sub-component  has  not  been  without
difficulties. Although the IDA credit did not allocate any funds for it, its
laborious  undertaking  delayed  the  timetable  of  the   physical   scheme
implementation: in particular Kukadi, Upper Wardha and Warna (the latter was
initially delayed for about one year but made up through the subsequent well
planned   construction   effort).  The  main  problems  encountered  by  the
resettlement schemes were the compensation payments which were insufficient
and settlement of differences often resulted in lengthy court-cases.
Difficulties were also confronted in land acquisition within the project
command areas. Other problems which did not have an impact on the project
implementation schedule but which caused anxiety among the affected farmers
were: the time lag between settling compensation and being able to obtain
land in the scheme command areas. In some cases farmers affected had to wait
for more than six years to get new land which was usually amongst the
poorest in the command areas; some lands were too high  or  undulating  with
corresponding difficulties in irrigability. In some of the new villages the
civic amenities provided were inadequate. The SAR did not treat this
component of the project in sufficient detail.
3.34     It  was  reported  that  only 10% of the resettlers (the better off
farmers) went to court and In many cases their ccmpensation was doubled; the
others could not seek recou"se due to lack of resources.
E. Project Costs
3.35     Total costs of the project (including physical  as  well  as  price
contingencies) was reported as US$451 million, in SAR Vol.1 and as USS452.9
million in SAR Vol.III. The latter has been considered as the correct
figure since Volume III contained the latest data, although the Agreements
were based on Volume I.
,. ..



- 11 -
3.36     Though  the  loan  became  effective  on  16  July  1980,  'project
expenditures which did not exceed the equivalent of USS25 million (Credit
Agreement) and had not been incurred before October 1979 could also be
charged to the IDA credit. Notwithstanding the fact that the funds in the
SAR were stipulated to cover the estimated expenditures of each of the
schemes and other components (Table 4), they were to be considered
relatively fungible.
3.37     Actual total project costs amounted to US$496.19 million,  9.6%  in
excess of the total estimated in the SAR (para 3.35). All schemes except for
those of Upper Wardha and Girna exceeded the SAR estimates. In spite of this
the physical work for all schemes could not be completed within the project
period, mainly due to higher price escalation than anticipated in the SAR:
10% per year for other than road construction (price escalation for road
construction was 7.5% per year) against a total average of 6.7% per year in
the SAR <1 The steeper than anticipated price escalation has been clearly
identified for the infrastructure component of the project: i.e. from the
per actual unit cost rates for the different construction activities. The
weighted average increase per year over the project period for this
component was about 13% (Table 5).
3.38     Although the actual costs per scheme or component incurred have not
been far beyond the SAR estimate (Table 4), it is clear from the figures on
physical progress that substantial shifts in resource allocations were made
within each scheme between the various sub-components. There were large cost
over-runs in the construction of dams and main canals; to finance them,
expenditures on drainage works, road works and disnet and OFD works were
reduced.
3.39     The   actual  clearly  identifiable  foreign  exchange  expenditure
required for the project occurred only in 1983/84 and amounted to a total of
USSIO.02 million or 2% of the actual project costs. This is, of course, not
comparable with the SAR estimate of about US$77.7 million or 17% of the
total project costs, which reflects the entire impact of the project on
imports, direct and indirect.
F. Disbursement
3.40     The  categories  of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
credit were: (1) Civil Works, (2) Equipment and Vehicles, (3) Technical
Assistance, and (4) Unallocated. The amount of the credit was mainly for
Civil Works (Table 6). The unallocated funds covered principally the
additional expenditures incurred under Category (3) under which WALMI and
the Jayakwadi Pilot and Farmers Projects, together costing about US$16.08
million (Table 4), were financed.
3.41     The  SAR  disbursement schedule was revised in 1984 when the actual
disbursements fell too far behind the appraisal estimate. From then onwards
the actual disbursement was in line with revised estimates. The project
closing date was 31 December 1985, disbursements were made in 1986 for costs
incurred during the project period (Table 7).
cl>      Source: iD, PW and HO.



- 12 -
G. Contracting and Procurement
3.42     It was  beyond  the  mission's  competence  to  check  whether  all
procedures required by the PA were followed for each particular procurement.
Only an overall assessment was made of this activity of the project. First
the Mechanical Organization of the 10 (MO/ID) was allowed by IDA to execute
the construction of four earth dams in the project. Originally this was to
be allowed only if GOM could demonstrate to IDA that this would be the
least-cost solution. To do so GOM was to solicit ICB on one of the four dams
and compare the results with the cost of doing the work by force account,
i.e. by MO/ID. An attempt to do so was undertaken by GOM, but due to lack of
response from foreign tenders and unqualified local tenders, it was decided
with World Bank concurrence that the works were to be carried out by force
account.
3.43     The  poor  response  from foreign tenders was common to most of the
other procurements under ICB. Response was forthcoming in those cases where
ICB concerned procurement of heavy equipment for which there is little
supply in India (Table 3). Equipment procured under ICB from foreign sources
amounted to the equivalent in foreign exchange of RslO9.6 million (US$11.08
million), and from the local suppliers to about Rs81.4 million (USS8.04
million - Table 8). All other procurement was carried out through LCB, local
procedure contract and forced account. Approval of contracts has been the
responsibility of the Executive Engineer (smaller than Rsl million); the
Superintendent Engineer (over Rsl million but smaller than Rs5 million) and
the Chief Engineer (over RsS million).



- 13 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Implementing Agencies and Coordination
General
4.1      All major civil engineering works down to the government controlled
chak outlet were implemented by the [D's construction wing. Part I of OFO
works (below the chak outlet) - consisting of construction of field
channels, drains, etc. - were also undertaken by ID through CADA. Part II of
OFD, consisting of land levelling only was paid by the farmers and :arried
out either by themselves or LDA and CADA. The road component was implemented
by PW & HO in close coordination with ID.
4.2      The  Chief  Engineer in Pune coordinated the project activities for
al' schemes. However, he had little executive power over those schemes not
under his jurisdiction, i.e. Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga and Girna. In
spite of this, no major problems were encountered except for monitoring  and
evaluation (para 4.10).
Irrigation Jepartment
4.3      Given the various constraints in scheme implementation (paras  3.14
to 3.15) the ID has performed satisfactorily, although further improvement
in quality  control  should  be  possrble.  Coordinathon   of Is   and  CADA
activqties was much smproud as compared to MCIP n. The CADA staff strength
in  general  was  adequate  to  meet  CADA's  responsibilities   in   timely
undertaking  the  OFO (Part I) works. As envisaged by the SAR, CADA absorbed
the bulk of staff trained in water maneaement at WALMI, to build up their
cadres.  WALMI's  role  in  relation to CADA staff strengthening will remain
crucial as CADA's implementation capacity will have to be stepped up and
kept  high  over  the  number of years needed to develop the full irrigation
potential In all schemes.
4.4      At appraisal an agreement had been reached with GOM that CADA would
permanently take over O&M of completed schemes. GOM however is not fully
complying with this in that CADA has been ass aned to handle scheme
management and O&M only over the implementation phase and until irrigation
has been firmly established. Thereafter CADA would withdraw by handing over
these responsibilities to the regular O&M wing of ID.
Department of Agriculture
4.5      As envisaged at the time of  appraisal,  the  AD  was  expected  to
provide agricultural extension and land development services (Part II works)
and field channels and field drainage (Part I works); coordinate adaptive
agricultural research and farm input supply. AD was also supposed to become
responsible for the planning of  cropping  and  of  water  supply,  and  was
expected to take an active part in monitoring the agriculturalperformance
of the schemes.



- 14 -
4.6      During  the  project  period,  AD   was   concerned   mainly   with
agricultural extension activities while all Part I and Part II works were
basically implemented by CADA (para 4.1). Although the T & V system Qf
extension started in 1982, it has not yet effectively penetrated the farming
community  in  the  areas  where  irrigation  has  started.  So   far,   its
effectiveness leaves much to be desired. The ratio of VLW to farm families
was reported to be about 1:1300 because of staff shortage. Most VLWs do not
live in or near the project area and have to depend on bicycles and public
transport and hence are unable to meet the target number of contact farmers
at fortnightly intervals. They are not provided with sufficient teaching
material, including audiovisual aids. They are not given adequate training
in   irrigated   farming  and  visits  by  Subject  Matter  Specialists  and
supervising officers are infrequent because of staff shortage. No advance
extension is undertaken in anticipation of conversion to irrigated farming.
4.7      The  AD  assisted  CADA  in  determining  crop yields based on crop
cutting experiments undertaken by CADA engineers in command areas. However,
no systematic monitoring or evaluation of the performance of the schemes was
done. There is a total lack of effective involvement of the AD in making use
of the costly irrigation infrastructure established to increase agricultural
production.
Mahatma Phole Agricultural University
4.8      MPAU  was  responsible  for adaptive research for which it set up a
research project in 1982. Farm demonstrations were undertaken during 1982-83
(kharif and rabi) at the MPAU although the crop production technology
including land and water management techniques had not yet been fully
tested. Experiments on the technique of proper layout of land for irrigation
were successfully undertaken. On-farm adaptive research was conducted in
Kukadi command. Farmers were encouraged by these demonstrations to use
better crop varieties and agronomic practices. However there is a need to
test and develop technology in cropping pattern and irrigation methods that
would suit the existing system of water allocation and delivery or
alternatively explore the possibility of changing this system. This study
would require close collaboration between the Adaptive Research Unit, the
Agronomic Research Centre and CADA.
Malaria Control
4.9      Accor4ing to the agreement reached with IDA, the  GOM  through  the
Health Department (HO) and ID undertook regular malaria surveillance,
treatment, spraying, and breeding control operations. Originally the HO
proposed to ID to provide an annual budgetary input of RslO million to the
NO to cover the malaria control Pxpenses for all the schemes. This was not
accepted by ID. Instead it financed the staff (inspectors and survey
workers) required to carry out the programme, while HO provided materials,
transport and supervision. Measures taken involving, inter alia, the use of
DOT were safe and in line with GOI/GOM regulations.
'<



- 15 -
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10     GOM  complied  with the IDA agreement to establish a Moiitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) unit in Bombay under the leadership of the CAD Commissioner
but the unit's actual performance was inadequate in scope and depth in that
it never developed beyond the rather narrow function of compiling physical
and financial progress of the various sub-projects and issuing quarterly
project progress reports on these matters. Even 4in this function, the M&E
unit was late in furnishing reports and data contained were often difficult
to reconcile. The unit apparently was physically too remote from the actual
project areas and not given enough authority and professional strength to
carry out the various tasks. Moreover, the M&E unit was never properly
designed. No Terms of Reference were provided for this activity, either by
IDA or by GOM.
4.11     The  M&E  unit  was  expected  to  carry  out  detailed  monitoring
exercises  on  water deliveries, crop yields, cropping intensities, cropping
calendar  and  patterns,  agricultural  production   related   to   specific
deliveries  of canal water and from wells, costs and socio-economic data. It
was then  supposed  to  carry  ou..  project  impact  analyses  and  specific
evaluations  which would provide factual evidence on the relative utility of
various physical and operational concepts in terms of production per unit
water delivered. Although irrigated farming was delayed in some schemes and
has not even made a start yet in two of them (Warna and Upper Wardha),
irrigation was sufficiently advanced in Kukadi and Krishna to permit the
full range of expected M&E activities to be undertaken. The same holds true
for Girna and Mula. Unfcotunately this w1s not done. The only monitoring of
crop yields was undertaken by AD's Statistics Division through crop cuttings
carried out by CADA engineers. Since it was not project-focussed, this data
was inappropriate for the intended M&E. This poor state of M&E has made it
particularly   difficult   for  the  mission  to  evaluate  the  impact  and
performance of this project.
C. Cost Recovery
4.12     The  recovery  of  capital and O&M costs have been elaborated on in
the SAR. There, it is clearly stated that if the levels of recovery through
water and water-related charges remain at the 1979 level only about 30% of
the project cost (including O&M costs) would  be  recovered.  The  level  of
recovery has fallen even below that target for those schemes which have been
developed to some extent: Krishna and Kukadi. In the more  advanced  scheme,
Krish.a, water charges cover only about 5% of the O&M expenditures. In the
Kukadi scheme, which is now underway, these charges  initially  covered  O&M
costs. In the last two years, however, there has been an increasing
shortfall due to the infrastructure build-up, which has resulted in higher
O&M costs while the revenues from water charges increased in the same
proportion as before. Moreover water charges are not fully collected: the
1985/86 collection rate was about 50% for Krishna and 60% for Kukadi.
However the records show that for the last five years the collection rate
for Krishna hovered around 70% (the 1985/86 performance could therefore have
been accidentally low) while Kukadi's collection rate showed an increasing
trend (Table 9).                                                  S



- 16 -
4.13     In this context it should be pointed  out  that  water  charges  in
Maharashtra are the highest in India. In spite of this they do not even
cover the project's O&M expenditure, which is in conflict with GOM's policy:
water charges should at least cover the O&M costs. GOM should therefore pay
more serious attention to the collection of water charges and study options
for increasing these revenues.
4.14     To  generate  more irrigation demand in kharif, IDA had proposed to
abolish the kharif water charge. Although it would scarcely affect total
cost recovery, the proposal is still under review.
D. Compliance with Covenants
4.1'     In general the covenants have been  satisfactorily  complied  with.
However, covenant 3.01 (a) stipulates that GOM agrees to carry out the works
of the Project in accordance with design and construction standards agreed
i etween IDA and GOM. For reasons explained before (para 3.1 and 3.17) GOM
Jid not entirely comply with this covenant.
4.16     In the case of-two other covenants 3.04  (b)  and  3.10  there  was
technical compliance, but the intent of the covenant was not achieved.
Covenant 3.04 (b) concerns the introduction of the T & V extension scheme in
the project area. A general assessment of this introduction was made in the
two more advanced schemes: Krishna and Kukadi. The T & V system has been
introduced, but in a haphazard way: the ratio required has not been applied,
there were insufficient materials and transport facilities etc. (para 4.6).
It is essential that this be improved since the increase in agricultural
production is the main purpose and benefit of the project while in reality
it is significantly lower than projected in the SAR (para 5.12).
4.17     Covenant  3.10  deals  with  the  review  of the existing water and
water-related charges in Maharashtra, the related experimental schemes with
different systems of volumetric charges and subsequently the introduction of
the most appropriate system. The study of different types of systems showed
that for the moment introduction of any such system was not considered
feasible for the following reasons:
1) the number of beneficiaries is too large and any volumetric
charging  system  would  therefore  become too expensive to operate
(water measurement);
ii) the adopted delivery system requires 24 hours of continuous
inspection, thus making the system difficult to apply;
1ii) it would require modification of the Irrigation Act.
GOM is now experimenting with a  "block  system"  whereby  the  charges  are
levied per block in which GOM hopes to form a society of farmers. The
society would be charged and in turn would charge each member for the
proportion that he would use. If this were feasible the water use efficiency
and charges would improve significantly. At present the rates are charged by
ha and crop; to change this to volume of water used would not'only be more
justifiable, but also increase the revenues derived from the water charges
if they are indeed fully collected (para 4.12).



-17-
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Agricultural Impact
Intended Impact
5.1      The  intended  impact  of  the project was to increase agricultural
production through the adoption of more intensive year-round croppirg
patterns and increased yields given assured irrigation. Expected incremental
production of major crops at full development would consist of 16,000 tons
of cotton, 0.55 million tons of foodgrains and 0.85 million tons of
sugarcane.
5.2      It is still early to assess agricultural development and impact  at
this stage since irrigation works are as yet far from being completed (para
3.3) and also data was not systematically recorded by project staff.
Consequently the mission was unable to assess the impact of irrigation on
cropping intensity, crop calendar, cropping pattern and yields accurately.
Mission projections for all the project schemes are therefore largely based
on data estimated by staff of the AD and CADA and mission field observaticn
and interviews with farmers.
Agricultural Impact in Krishna and Kukadi
5.3      As irrigated farming has progressed most in Krishna and Kukadi,  an
account of agricultural impact over the project period is given for these
schemes below.
5.4      Irrigable Command  Area  (ICA)  <1>  In  the  SAR  the  ICA  to  be
implemented over the project period was estimated for Krishna and Kukadi but
there was no indication of agricultural changes and impact that would have
resulted because of the availability of irrigation water. At the end of the
project period, ICA covered in Krishna was 19,000 ha compared with the
appraisal projection of 26,000 ha for this period and 74,000 ha at full
development. In Kukadi the ICA developed over the project period was 14,400
ha (with lining down to 8 ha) compared with an appraisal estimate of 20,000
ha and a total of 132,000 ha at full development. The latter is reported to
have slightly increased to 146,000 ha.
5.5      Cropping.  irrigation  intensities,  and  yields.  These  have  all
increased in Krishna and Kukadi but the increases were lower than  appraisaL
projections (Table 10). In Krishna there was more cropping of high value
crops such as vegetables and wheat in Rabi, groundnuts in Hot Weather 'and
sugarcane as a perennial crop. As anticipated there has been a shift frcm
growing traditional sorghum  var'eties  to  hybrids.  However  the  complete
replacement of local sorghum with hybrids and french beans with vegetable
and paddy was slow. In Kukadi, there has  been  a  substantial  increase  in
irrigated sorghum, wheat and groundnuts. Most farmers interviewed requested
--------------------------------------
<l>      The SAR uses the term Net Cultivable Command Area (NCCR) which
corresponds to the ICA as commonly used in Maharashtra and in this
PCR.



-18 -
that irrigation interval for Hot Weather vegetables be reduced from 15-21
days to 10 days and that the limitation imposed by CADA on the area
sanctioned for sugarcane be waived. However due to GOM regulations further
expansion of these crops in both schemes has not been anticipated.
5.6      Utilization of irrigation potential. Of  the  19000  ha  ICA  (with
lining down to 8 ha level) developed in Krishna up to closing date only
4,500 ha were reported under irrigation  during  kharif  1986,  implying  an
irrigation intensity of 23%. This low kharif irrigation intensity is in line
with findings in other existing irrigation schemes in Maharashtra and is due
to difficult soil conditions, cultural traditions and other socio-economic
factors. The PCR in its projections of future project performance assumes
that these problems could largely be overcome through improved irrigation
service,  reinforced  extension  efforts  and  appropriate   water   pricing
policies. However, there is an upper limit set by the physical capacities of
the systems. In case of the Krishna scheme, assuming optimistic overall
system efficiency, project data indicate an upper limit of about 50% for
kharif  irrigation  intensity.  Therefore  the  high  intensities  at   full
development assumed in the SAR cannot be supported.
5.7      Farming practices.The project envisaged early planting (early June)
of kharif crops to reduce the incidence of pests and diseases and enhance
the timely planting of subsequent rabi and Hot Weather crops in order to
attain higher yields. Mbst farmers continue to adhere to the normal planting
date, i.e. between the third week of June and mid-July, since under existing
GOM procedures for operating the canal systems tte first irrigation would be
available only about the end of June or in July. Little guidance was given
in irrigated farming. Only a few study tours to the Mahatma Phole
Agricultural University in Rahuri were provided to the "rainfed" farmers.
Judging by the wide range and rates of fertilizer and organic manure applied
it appears that inadequate extension service was provided to farmers on
optimum usage under irrigated conditions. Nevertheless, use of fertilizers
by farmers appears to be on the increase.
5.8      Input  supply  and marketing. There appears to be no problem in the
supply of HYV seeds, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals and in
marketing of farmers' produce.
Projected Agricultural Impact
5.9      Cropping and irriqation intensities. Projected cropping intensities
without project in all schemes is estimated to be somewhat lower than
appraisal estimates. The reduction takes into account the drought-prone
situation which suppresses average attainable cropping intensities. With
assured irrigation supply, cropping intensities at full development are
expected to increase from 100 to 167 in Krishna; 80 to 141% in Kukadi; 82 to
134% in Upper Wardha; 100 to 162% in Upper Penganga; 110 to 157% in Warna
East and from 105 to 152 in Warna West (Table 10). This increase exceeds the
one anticipated in the appraisal projections but has to be weighed against
lower projected crop yields (para 5.11) as well as irrigation intensities.
While the SAR does not provide data on future irrigation intensities without
project the PCR assumes from 10 to 30% irrigation intensities in the non-
project  situation.  The  source  would  be  groundwater  and   river   lift
irrigation. As compared to the SAR estimates the irrigation intensities at
full development have been adjusted in order to match the physical
properties (capacities, efficiencies) of the irrigation systems.



_ 19 _
5.10     CroPppgi Pattern. It is anticipated that cropping pattern would  be
more diversified and intensified at full development (Table 11). Groundnut
would be introduced as a Hot Weather crop and the area cultivated annually
is estimated to be 35,000 ha. Substantial increase is also expected in
sugarcane, from 27,000 ha to 36,000 ha, since farmers' response to the use
of  irrigation water for this crop is tremendous but would be limited due to
GOM regulations. In kharif, sorghum is expected to increase substantially
from 79,000 ha to 134,000 ha but the area under cotton would decrease, as
envisaged in the appraisal estimate. There would also be increases in paddy
and pulses. In rabi, wheat would increase substantially from 43,000 ha to
82,000 ha and vegetables from 11,000 ha to 40,000 ha.
5.11     Crop yields. Table 12 gives the annual average crop yields compared
with the appraisal projection. The latter did not quantify yields for the
respective schemes. It appears that appraisal yields for all the crops
except paddy and fodder were underestimated for the without project
situation but would appear too ambitious for most crops for the with-project
situation.  In general, substantial yield increase for all crops is expected
although lower than anticipated in appraisal projections.
Incremental Production
5.12     At  full  development annual production of major crops is estimated
to be 907,000 tons of foodgrains <1> 169,000 tons of groundnuts, 245,000
tons of vegetables, 3.6 million tons of sugarcane and 76,000 tons of cotton
(Table 13). Expected incremental production <2> which is lower than
appraisal projection (Table 14) is shown below:
Scheme                  Foodgrains             Cotton            Sugarcane
. . . . . . . .   '000 tons . . . . . . . . .
SAR      PCR         SAR      PCR      SAR        PCR
Krishna                138       114          4        -      758        185
Kukadi                 266       147          -        -       140       321
Upper Penganga         202       136         38        3       140       399
Upper Wardha           123        66         16       13       80         30
Warna                  187        85          -        0    1,219        -83
Total      916       548         58       16    2,337         852
j                    ==s       s=s        =s=     n~~~~~~~===    us=s   s=
<C31>   Sorghum, wheat, paddy, pulses, maize, millet.
<2'      Future with project minus future without project.          *



- 20 -
Farm Budget
5.13     In  appraisal  estimates,  one  farm  model  each  was prepared for
Krishna, Dhom, Krishna Kanher, Krishna Arphal, Kukadi, Upper Penganga, Upper
Wardha, Warna East and Warna West. In consultation with CADA, it was agreed
that one farm budget would adequately represent Krishna since agro-climatic
conditions and cropping are rather similar in the three different sites
(Dham, Kanher and Arphal) within Krishna. Furthermore based on data provided
by CADA, the average farm-size holding in Krishna and Warna is now
considered to be 1 ha respectively instead of 3 ha indicated at the time of
appraisal.
5.14     On  this  basis net farm income at full development is estimated to
increase for all schemes comoared to future without project situation.
Incremental net farm income per hectare is less than appraisal projection as
shown below:
Incremental Farm Income in 1978/79
(Rs)
Krishna   Kukadi      pper                Warna    Warna
Wardha    Pencanga    East      West
SAR            5,252     3,399    3,421      3,712       4,667    3,826
n/
PCR            2,570     1,451    1,476      2,231      2,641    2,473
a/ The 1978/79 value adjustment is based on the Wholesale Price Index.
Lower benefit is due mainly to lower yields than anticipated at full
development.
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Assumptions
6.1      An accurate re-evaluation of the economic impact of the project can
be made only after the project is completed and its results have been
monitored. Here this was not the case. The economic impact has been measured
by the mission purely on the basis of the economic rate of return (ERR) for
which relatively sufficient cos:; data were available; however the data to
measure the related economic benefits were not as reliable. <1> To ensure a
relatively sound comparison the ERR estimate has been as much as possible
--------------------------------------
<1>0,    Most of the infrastructural expenditures have already been
undertaken and there now exists an agronomic data base to at ledst
estimate the projected yields with more credibility, i.e. derived
from the partially developed commands at Krishna and Kukadi.



- 21 -
aligned with the one used in the SAR: similar conversion and shadow rate
methods were used, one and the same economic value per cost or commodity was
estimated for all the schemes and finally the ERR was applied over the
overall investment for the scheme construction programme and not over the
time - slice only.
6.2      Project  costs  include  all  expenditures  that  would  contribute
directly or indirectly to the project bene'its, and also those that would
avoid any negative impact resulting from the project: i.e. malaria,
submerging of land, resettlement (It is not clear whether this aoproach had
been followed in the SAR also). The annual expenditures have been expressed
in 1985/86 costs by applying the Wholesale-Price Index for non-agricultural
items. Before this a Construction Conversion Factor of 0.8 was applied on
the project construction component.
6.3      The phasing of the expenditures already incurred were obtained from
the government records. For the phasing of the expenditures still to be
incurred government projections were used and two alternative approaches
were considered. The first and more realistic approach (Option I) is based
on 7th Plani expenditure provisions and consequently shortage of funds
(except for the Upper Wardha scheme). The second approach (Option II)
assumes that the Government would continue the investment programme as
rapidly as possible, i.e. it was assumed that ID would not be constrained by
insufficient funding but would complete the  schemes  as  quickly  as  sound
engineering practice and available implementation capacities would permit.
6.4      Benefits accrued or still to be accrued are the annual net revenues
obtained or expected  from  the  incremental  agricultural  production  (the
difference of the with and without project situation) of the area developed
for irrigation. The value of the internationally traded commodities such as
sorghum, sugarcane, paddy, wheat, cotton and groundnut are estimated at
economic farm-gate prices based on the World Bank commodity price forecast
for 1985 expressed in 1985 constant prices. Values of the other crops,
mainly non-traded commodities <1> , were based on the average financial
price  for all schemes adjusted by a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.80. The
phasing of the incremental benefits imply two benefit streams, i.e. each
relates to a different alternative expenditure approach. Both benefit
streams were based on the following assumptions:
i) the completion of on-farm development (OfD) works would lag behind
the completion of infrastructural project works down to and
including disnets by one year;
ii) the  net  cultivable  command  area  (ICA)  would   reach   maximum
anticipated irrigation intensities within three years after the OFD
wo.ks are completed; and
iii) maximum yields would be obtained only five years after the start of
irrigation.
-Maize was also included in this category since the project produced
only a limited amount of this commodity.



- 22 -
6.5      It is noted that completion of disnets  is  usually  proceeding  in
stages (of several 1000 ha). However, for practical reasons the benefit
streams still to be derived from both options have been considered to be
linear. For each scheme the net value of the maximum incremental production
has been estimated in the year in which full development is expected to
occur, thus according to the above assumptions nine years after the disnet
is established. This value has then been divided over the pe-iod when the
first incremental production has been or will be made until the full
production is reached. The outcome gives the average annual net incremental
value. (The SAR did not explain the phasing of the benefits. It only listed
the ERR benefit stream and from this, the start of production and the time
of realising full development could be deduced).
Re-estimated ERR
6.6      Based on the above assumptions <1> the ERRs for Option  I  for  the
schemes Krishna and Warna have been estimated at less than 0, and for
Kukadi, Upper Penganga and Upper Wardha 1.2, 2.5 and 5.8 respectively. For
Option II the ERRs of the first two schemes remain less than 0, while for
Kukadi and Upper Penganga the ERR would increase to 1.9 and 4.2 respectively
(Tables 16 to 20). As mentioned before Option II was not applied to Upper
Wardha. There is thus no financial constraint for the continuation of this
scheme - additional funds would not speed up the construction since the
expenditure provisions based on the 7th Plan on which Option I is based,
appear to be sufficient (para 6.3). The weighted average ERR for the overall
project would be 0.6 for Option I and 1.4 for Option II (Tables 21 and 22).
6.7      From  the  foregoing  these results may not come as a surprise. The
incremental production attributable to the project has been estimated from a
reduced incremental irrigation intensity as compared to the SAR. The
production at full development was by far overestimated in the SAR, mainly
due to yield overestimates and the too large emphasis of government on the
engineering  and  construction  aspect  at  the  expense   of   agricultural
development. The delays of the construction works have also postponed
production and the point in time of full development, while the project cost
overrun only exacerbated the final results. Moreover, most of the economic
farmgate prices are significantly lower than those indicated in the SAR.
Only the input costs in the SAR have been predicted more or less correctly
(Table 15). However, it should be borne in mind that the project is in
principle not even half way completed so far as the agricultural development
is concerned: only 14X of the ICA has been fully developed (para 8.1). The
development projection includes therefore still a large element of educated
guesswork (para 8.10).
-------------------------------------
c1>      No judgement could be given on whether the SAR assumptions on
phasing were realistic, since these were not given (para 6.5).



- 23 -
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Design and Appraisal
7.1      The  decision  to  support an ongoing programme of inajor irrigation
development that would take a further 15 to 2C years to complete was
undoubtedly not only challenging but entailed considerable risk The IDA
therefore rightly undertook a thorough review of Maharashtra's irrigation
sector as part of the project preparation exercise. The review and its
evaluation in close cooperation with GOM lead to the linkage of support for
a massive civil engineering implementation programme with the introduction
of a number of innovations and improvements in planning, design, operational
procedures and institutional arrangements as detailed elsewhere in this PCR.
The central issue was the low utilization of irrigation potential created in
Maharashtra so far due to lack of OFO and poor irrigation service. To close
this gap GOI and GOM emphasized integrated development of the command area
with upgraded and modernized design standards which was a concept much in
line with IDA's own findings. However, in actual fact It turned out to be
far more difficult than expected at appraisal to achieve this objective
within the frame of a 5 year time slice.
7.2      Much  of  the  effort  on  improving  operational  procedures,  OFO
standards and water management were shifted to the subsequent projects
Maharashtra Water Utilization Projects (MWUP) and MCIP III; therefore the
MCIP II project was reduced by and large to a civil works implementation
project. In this respect the project has achieved considerable improvement
in design standards, quality control and phasing of works between the ID
construction wing and CADA.
7.3      Certain weaknesses in appraisal projections  became  apparent.  The
SAR considerably underestimated project costs, probably because it did not
update the project feasibility studies which usually apply outdated unit
costs and have estimates that are not as ti1 bound as the appraisal
requirements. It is not known whether the technical scheme designs at
appraisal were still preliminary or whether they were insufficiently
scrutinized. However, it has now become apparent that most canals have not
sufficient capacity to satisfy irrigation requirements at the irrigation
intensity levels anticipated in the SAR (para 5.6). Assuming that the canal
capacities have been correctly designed to match available water yields and
command areas, which is likely, then the SAR has considerably over-estimated
the physically possible irrigaton intensities.
7.4      Minor numerical inconsistencies exist between Vol. I and III of the
SAR and the economic Lvaluation lacks sufficient supporting information to
enable a re-evaluation on the same assumptions and methodology. Agricultural
aspects were insufficiently covered and the same applies to the very
substantial resettlement aspects.
Supervision
7.5      Eleven  supervision  missions  visited the project over a period of
five years and were able to give considerable technical advice and
assistance in civil and irrigation engineering. However, inadequate emphasis
was  given  by  supervision  missions  to  agricultural   development.   The
supervision   reports  Drovided  excellent  reference  material  on  project
implementation  in  compensation  for  the  absence  of  comprehensive   M&E
reporting. The working relationship between the Bank and project staf nas
been uniformly excellent.



- 24 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.1      Conside-ing the dominant role of civil engineering works under this
project and the implementation difficulties faced (para 3.14 and 3.15) it is
clear that the attention of the implementing agencies as well as supervision
missions has been far more geared towards construction of dams, spillways,
canals, major aqueducts, tunnels and other civil engineering works than
towards service area development including the provision of a dependable,
agro-economically sound and socially acceptable irrigation service for a
maximum of farmers. With only about 14% of the ICA having been fully
developed by proJect closing date it has been relatively easy to defer this
more delicate part of irrigation development to the future. Thus while the
project  took  decisive  strides  towards  improved  planning,  design   and
construction of schemes it cannot be overlooked that it indirectly gave
further support to the trend of the 1970s when much investment went into
major works, but implementation of the various supporting measures to ensure
adequate  utilization  of  potential  created  remained  weak.   While   the
strengthening of CADA as an essential precondition has been achieved, only
the future will tell how effective and lasting t:'is effort has been. The
large amount of remaining work will require further reinforcement of CADA
while simultaneously scaling down the capacities created in executing large
civil engineering works. Any repeater project should be designed to
exclusively support the array of activities required to assure reasonably
quick and most effective utilization of the irrigation potentials created.
8.2      The extent to which canals should be lined has been a controversial
issue since project preparation, despite the quite clear findings of the
sector review. This inter alia emphasized that the low-standard approach to
irrigation then prevailing in Maharashtra was wasteful In both a physical
and economic sense in that it allowed loss of much water, irrigated less
area, constrained yields and limited the adoption of a higher valued
cropping pattern. The study estimated that the adoption of recommended
lining down to the 8 ha level and the reduction of chak size to 8 ha would
alone increase overall project efficiency from about 34% to 49% and thus
would permit expansion of irrigated area by 45%. This high performance
standard, it was found, could be gained at the expense of only about 14%
higher total project costs, thus making the inclusion of lining and smaller
chak size in basic design standards economically highly attractive. In other
words the higher standard was found to be the least cost solution in terms
of cost per ha irrigated or in cost per cubic metre of water delivered. The
analysis In principle has not lost any of its validity today even if some
adjustment seems justified. Thus lining could be deferred and corresponding
water losses tolerated over the period of build-up of a scheme's command
area as long as water is still relatively abundant (para 3.1) and as long as
postponed lining does not significantly increase costs. The availability of
sufficient offtime in canal operation is a positive factor in this respect.
GOM under mounting financial constraints has thus increasingly taken this
avenue in respect to distributary systems. Likewise in lining of field
channels it has cut back originally agreed standards (para 3.17) which will
result in some reduction of overall efficiency.



- 25 -
8.3      Another inroad to design standards but less severe,  has  been  the
level of chak size reduction in that the 8 na level advocated by the Bank
was found to be too small and was increased to an average of about 20 ha
(para 3.18). While the rationale for this level of chak size appears sound,
consideration should also be given to the degree of success of farmers'
outlet committees and getting farmers', cooperation in O&M of field channels.
In conclusion it must be pointed out that a permanently lower level of
irrigation infrastructure would further reduce the already over-estimated
irrigable command areas and irrigation intensities and consequently decrease
the economic viability of the schemes further.
8.4      GOM  and  IDA had agreed that new water allocation procedures would
be introduced in the new schemes, in replacement of the prevailing method of
shejpali, which was considered the principal reason for inefficient water
management at field level. Although not stated verbatim it was understood
that a gradual ctange via the so called "rigid shejpali" (para 3.28) to
proportional (area based) delivery was to be introduced and, if well enough
received, would be adopted in all new command areas. This aim did not
however develop beyond the introduction of rigid shejpali in Kukadi and
Krishna. <1> The experimentation with volumetric water-charging (para 4.16)
revealed severe inherent difficulties, unlikely to be overcome in the
foreseeable future. As it was intended to improve water use efficiency under
the prevailing shejpali, its failure must be seen as an additional argument
against maintaining that system and in favour of its earliest possible
conversion to the area-based proportional delivery system. In view of the
vast irrigation potential still to be put into service in the five new
schemes under MCIP II it would seem worthwhile to arrange for a pilot scale
introduction of pooportional delivery, on rly 5000 ha of command area where
no irrigation hastaken place so far.
8.5      In order to optimize water use and  facilitate  scheme  management,
each scheme's specific resources, physical configuration, soil and agro-
climatic conditions, allocation procedures, etc. need to be integrated in an
operational plan.
8.6      Lift  irrigation  from  reservoirs  and  main  canals constitutes a
substantial section of water use in the project schemes. It therefore merits
more systematic ID (CAOA) involvement in planning, design, operation and
management than appears to be the case at present.
8.7      Under the project, GOM demonstrated the capacity to implement  high
quality major civil engineering works under force account as well as
contract. Quality however was not uniform, especially in canal lining, which
was due to inadequate quality control and contract specifications (para
3.21). Contractual specifications and procedures were improved but further
improvement of the constructiin supervision of ID staff is necessary in
order to enforce quality standards in contractual work. Flood hydrology as
related to dam safety needs urgent review for Kanher and Isapur dams (para
3.23).
cl>      Prior to 1979 it had already been t-ied quite successfully at
Girna.



- 26 -
8.8      In the process of conversion from  rainfed  to  irrigated  farming,
agricultural staff and farmers would need to be adequately trained in crop
production technology and land and water management techniques. In addition,
extensive on-farm adaptive research is iequired to develop technology in
cropping pattern and irrigation methods that would suit the system adopted
for water allocation and delivery. Continuous monitoring of agricultural
performance is desirable to enable improvements to be made to the operation
of the irrigation supply system and the adoption of more appropriate
cropping patterns. It was not quite clear from the SAR which agencies were
responsible for these activities, but the mission consider that this task
has not been adequately addressed. A much more active role by the Department
of Agriculture in agricultural development in the command areas would have
been expected in order to achieve the full potential benefits of irrigation.
Nevertheless it should also be emphasised that for monitoring and evaluation
activities to be successfully implemented, exact terms of reference for the
tasks to be carried out need to be given either in the SAR or through
subsequent supervision missions.
8.9      The costly delays experienced in construction of major works due to
land acquisition and settlement problems indicate the need for more careful
and advance planning and greater flexibility in settlement of  compensations
which usually are tiny fractions of the amounts lost through postponement of
completion of works, idling of machinery and other factors. Where farmers
have to be displaced because of the submergence of dams, a comprehensive
plan of specific action is required to ensure that adequate compensation is
promptly paid, good farm land given or purchased with little delay and that
the families become established and economically self-sustaining at living
standards that at least match those before displacement.
8.10     The Bank should carefully review the justification of commissioning
conventional PCRs on time slices of long-term programmes before these are
finally completed. To make an accurate evaluation of such time-slices is
difficult,  time-consuming  (particularly   when   only   few   agricultural
activities have been undertaken, especially when these have been poorly
monitored - para 4.10) and thus relatively costly. The conclusion of such
PCRs must be viewed with great scepticism since they must be largely derived
from educated guesswork rather than facts. It may therefore be more
appropriate instead to apply a modified approach to the evaluation of
project/programe progress as an input into the appraisal of the next  time-
slice. Such an evaluation would involve an in-depth assessment of physical
progress and of agriculture achievements but would not seek to re-estimate
the ERR.



- 27 -
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
Implementation Status for Girna and Mula Schemes
Percentage of SAR Estimates Completed
Project Sub-Comoonent                     by 31 December 1985 at
Girna                      Mula
Improved Standards
of O&M
Reducing chak size                    60                        100
Wireless communicat.ion               70                           0 1/
Equipment for O&M                    100                        100
Buildings for O&M                    100                         100
Service roads and
inspection paths                     50                        n.a
Roads in command area                100                        100
Flow measuring devices                35                        100
Cross regulators and
escapes                              30                        n.a
Corrective Measures
Repairs to lining                      0                        100
Remodelling of
distributary system                   0                        n.a
Drainage improvement
in command area                     65                         100
New Works for Modernization
Lining of canals and                  85                        n.a
branches
Liiing of Disnet                      40                        100
En route storage                       0                          0
J Was deleted and transferred to Kukadi Scheme.
,. .



0.4: C'%4TRA J1l?G et-4 It PROJECT (C-.95:-19)
C-i!2;-v    _if 4in Qfeittrees of Pb1ic1  !Coa2!nents
It#br/   "t it  tIen        NIW .li          9. 9 t'i gqa       U;Uordhla            .4 ,td1                  Percentage
FeTirve                            S    "IT -kn2/   'f          T         SW         CT    SAP       C      SAR    cT       SAS      A CT        ie
fe_e            S^q-l- -i  21   . t-- -- z!            S.X?~~~~~--- --- ^C  P---  ---C   -P--   ---T    ---        ---c!  C lee
DAIm                                 I         I                  3         1         I       2       t       1       1         7      7         -
Clole*5t4   Stat;                   -        91        -      tOJ/i0o/    -          75      -       28      -       74       i:t    n.I a-
./TiN C.1JJ ECT4
T3#4l l.xatl IaC
r.d LKl:
of T .; --.Pei         t       473       -           5      -         3tl       -      143       -      34      -      1,7        -
- Fi3  lear tine          tn       265    .23  31    ! 7       S 4         86       64     18       34       'O    70       611    499          83
;l.ct_
Tots! CCA              t119 hN   BeAl        -       li .W       -       13?.00      -    93.30      -      97.?1   -      5i8.1      -          -
Tatel Wet ACC           100 ha   74.O0               1.P2.11     -       126.10      -    75.50      -      97.0t   -      494.00    -           -
Can,! C0acity           /sec.ha    0.86      -          US       -         0.63      -     0.63      -       t 7'  -         -        -
Over tipe slice         1010 ha   28.1l    23.73    31.S        21.00    1S.10   990   5.0l            0     7.90  0.9  8 8.60   59.30           S&
Over tine slice:
Sob-minwrs and        1M00 ha   3t.20    34.11    25.5    24.50    10.60    8.90   5.00              0     5.00   I        76.31   67.50        88
- tiniiq dotn It
8 ha outlet          1101 ha   26.01    19.30    20.99    14.40        5.01    4.36   1.80         I      3.9q   0       55.80   37.70        68
Total length               km       234       IS1      155       155       119       88      49      36       49    23       597      463        79
slite
1/   Quantities derived f-in SAR V.1. Ill, Aich often differ subst4ntiall7 fron tbose of Vol. 1.                                                                                     v
Z/ kta1ll corpletes by lsan cJloi2 dute 12/85, and related only to time slice project.
3/   As camnes are in  inns stages o           ef cwletiin of earthuorks, lining and structeress the figures provided are approzinutians.                       N



- 29 -
Table 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
ICB Procured Machinery
Description of Equipment                                     Year
Imported
Cat Twin Engine Motorized Scraper  -  6 Nos.               1982
Deima3 Hydraulic Excavator           -  2 Nos.             1983
Poclain Hydrauiic Excavator          -  2 Nos.             1982
Cat Front End Wheel Loader           -  2 Nos.             1982
of 1.29 cu.m.
Cat Front End Wheel Loader           -  2 Nos.             1982
of 3 cu.m.
Caterpillar 08K Tractor              - 12 Nos.             1982
of 320 HP
Caterpillar D7G Tractor              -  5 Nos.             1982
of 180-210 HP
Vibratory Pad Foot                   -  4 Nos.             1982
Compactor (Dynapac)
Vibratory Slope Compactor            -  6 Nos.             1983
(Bomag)
Concrete Finisher                    - 12 Nos.             1982
Indigenous
Terex TS-14 B Scraper                -  6 Nos.             1983
Beml D-355A3 Tractor                 - 10 Nos.             1983
3eml R-35 Haulpac Durmpers           -  2 Nos.             1983
Terex R-25 Dumpers                   - 12 Nos.             1982
Leyland Hippo Dumpers                - 20 Nos.             1982
Availing Jessop SL 340               -  5 Nos.             1983
Dumpers



Prsi tt's 9-ineal e-e^ditvres     Sc'-.4e
04; N'll1}1}
SAR   71
Oth!e"rl.er        t   1?1   l9SI131    1!98 2   !50; 13    tE        t      tte        7       Ii        !S       e!/F"4lli  lS
r.o'rliy                                                                                       31/!/7nSS    zs nil.)    usI AS      4inr1.p%Vs:c.l
jid price cant)
10lo1i exhe0e             74.93      173.41 U      5 .95    219.77    27.0 7 IJ    211.97    146.25         1,145.49      116.16         101.9
8rishrn khebb,            7.?2       199.96      131.27    14.75    143.Pl  Y        111.23      94.74        797.50       82.87          79.1
Uiral ScN41e              78.67      113.6       119.32    112.11    1A1.4"          175.95      97.20        .927.53      05.39          83.0
lder Pen7anqa Sc%e"e    S.21         Il?,5'      153.6      2711.11    215 lI If    1.6.31    107.16       1,049.30      106.91          92.4
Ulmer p  0l  Schem?       31.37       67.44      115.13    135.16    152.11 J!    132.54        111.06        744.71       74,39          79,0
0-!1 Claul                 I,.1       1.26        13.9fb     19.94      15.??         1.23       1I.19         74,75        7.55           5.9
Mo@e nitasnc  ScWe-?
Girtl C1i1                 2.t.s       5.91        9.63      1M44       12.3         t12. 19     10.09         68.76         9.es           6.2
roof."iwitIo  ScNece
1Sm|kvn1i  Pilst St          -         5.!8       13.51      J1 .5      9 27           7.29       0.57         77.67        8. 09
Fir>6 s  Pn   e
1114lastn9itcte  S!                     1. 13      9.2       1.1 76     18 .99    _s_71 _!&.96                  WM    _ 9  Q         4     3.3
Totit 3nnalt             1738t 5o    S   '9      4n 29    91? 97    9'3 81          8113 1S      84.21      4,971.89      496.19         4S52 9
Eirwiditire
Annoiul fichm1le Rate      8.17        7.89        8. M2      9 S28    10.312         11.997    12.150 01
to U.S.11I.0
Totit Annual              41.S9       72.8        70 31      9555      9t SI b0 6826             48.88                    496.19         452.9
Eipeidittre (IJSS ") ::                   :     5::: :::               =::            :=       =                5        _== 
!1  ncle4inj foreignl eichange eipenJitere of Is 17,TA,014.
,     @       * Q; ts 7,162,311.
4/  8   "    e           "       " t; *l~~~~4,1?1q,01. 
51 These components ire ctareed onder f tegir7  III ffpehnical Assistlancel for Crelit Disbursement.>
S/ hsed on the annuil eichinge role.
'J Adopted fnxi Volimp III Supplerientory Oasis uichi   differs Iron Voloe I oftIhe SAR.
i/ Eichange rates I9 /8 J2 ;12 217. Increase of R-.0S1 oere 193UR5
A-9mne linear increase; I months i nrreise comes ti Is.2  S5
Fjg,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,g P.,jer?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INOIA
MAHARASlHTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJFcT tro,954-lNl
Unit Cost Rates of E o-t tho, k s. Concrete anoc  adounry ovwet Pe lod 19717-8 to 1985-86
(Rs)
Item                             Unit    1979-80    1980-8t-82         1982-83    19083-84     1984-0s5    1915-86       Atf3jAje A nnual
Ier!.* *%Over
 Ye4rs
Excavation in Soil S.M.            m3        3.65         3.65           3.75        4.00         4.50        4.50             4.6
excavation in H.M                  m3        6.20         6.211          5.25        5.70         6.30        6.30             1.6
Exca%ation in S.R                  m3       11.70        11.70          16.00       17.65        19.4S       19.45            13.2
Excavation In H.R                  m3       23.25        23.25          27.00       31.00        36.50       36.85            11.7
Embankment Casing Zone            m3         6.90         6.90           6.65        7.25         7.90        8.10             3.5
(available material)
Embankment Casing Zone            m3         8.80         8.80           8.00        8.60         9.35        9.55             1.7
Oborrow pits)
Embankment Hearting Zone          m3         5.80         5.80           5.60        6.10         6.65        6.85             3.6
(ava lable material)
Fmhanhmwnt t art u..j Zone        m3         6.60         6.61)          6.30        6.70         7.25        7. 4             2f.6
h off i lI " 1 t s )
a0 O_
ID.'



AMANRASITRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
Unit Cost Rates of Earthworhs. Concrete gnd Masonry over Period 1977-78 to 1985-88
(Ps)
Item                Unit *     9.9-80 Jalk..ggl u992-H3                1t 1903-04    194O        985-06    Averane Annual
Inscr ase.Over
5 Years
Cement Concrete (1:3:6)           m3        184.40         104.40       247.70      272.90       324.95      362.70          19.3
for foundation (80 mt)
Cement Concrete (1:2:4)           m3        250.40        250.40        320.00      360.00       430.00      488.00          10.9
for foundation
Cement Concrete (1:2:4)           m3        273.55        273.55        350.30      400.00       470.00      534.00          19 0             )
for columns
Cement Concrete (1:2:4)          m3         256.70        256.70        350.30      400.00       470.00      534.00          21.6
for Slabs
M.S. Reinforcement              M.T      4.015.00       4.015.00    5.359.45   5,298.00   5.333.80   6,433.80                12.0
U.C.R  MUasonry                  m3         122.30         122.30       144.00       164.00      193.00      216.00          15.3
In C.U. (1:5)
U.C.R Masonry in C.M.            m3         126.10         126.10       146.15       166.25      194.85      217.90          14.5
(1t5)
Ngte:  Weighted average annual price escalatirsn    13%.
.*                                                                                  Ww~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 33 -
Table 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION I1 PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
Allocation of IDA Credit
Category                            Amount of Credit Allocated
(in US$ equivalent)
SAR                Actual
Civil Works                     170,000,000          171,,48,903.00
Equipment and Vehicles           24,000,000           24,587,120.68
Technical Assistance               6,000,000          13,563,976.92
Unallocated                       10,000,000
Total Credit                210,000,000         210,000,000,00



- 34 -
Table 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Semester            Accumulated Disbursements         Percent actual
to SAR/Revised
Appraisal   Latest    Actual           estimate
Estlmate    Revised
Estimate
. .. .US$ million . . . .             (X
1980    1                  0                      0
2                 5                    8.8              176
1981    1                 18                   15.7               87
2                36                   35.9              100
1982    1                 58                   47.0               81
2                84                   75.3               90
1983    1                117                   33.1               80
2               150                  119.5               80
1984    1                176         135      130.4               78
2               198          158     162.9               80
1985    1               210          173      175.4              82
2                            195     191.7               93
1986    1                            210     206.3               98
2                                    210.0              100
Source:  Bank Office - New Delhi.                                ,



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT ICR.954-IN)
PeLit-ase oif Macninerar  andt Eoluipme ist Istlderi ICB
Warna          VvvLir        Vulm        KrisIs.s      KsIkdsS,t Ij Ia!            Ex        it e'     Total
Wag 411d     f'ge..a.tca                             (Rs *000)    Rate tuJ U2          (USS '00
latoarted
1982        31.115        33.400         14.483        1.521        1.521        82.049          9.621             9,522
1983        12.527         5.739          9.860          518          507         19.151         10.31"2           1,859
1984 2'      3,S_ I                                        r__'a 42  I_! J49     _*4Q             1.17                07
Sub-tota!               37.202        40.456         27.5H5-       9.1t(I      2.177        109.160                           11.086
Lnd_I4ejngo%L
1982          -           14.461         11.503          -            -          25.964          9.628            10,312
1983        13.131         6.029         26.190        6.310          -          52.460          10.312            S.087
1984 2/         792          7246         1.317          110          -            2.965         11.887              249
1985 2/          42       .                               -           -                          12.150                 3
5mmA-gtl6               1J.965        22.016         J9.,30        6.420          -          81.431                            8.036
TOTAL                 51.1fi7      62.472         6fi.615       8.610          -          191.041
/1  Exchange rates for 1982/83. 1983/84 asid 1984/85 lTable 4).
.   Pelates to spiare parts inly.
SopLS:  Irrijat1o0n Departmeent. Pvne



1AD
MAHARASHTRA ERRICATKIN 11 PROJECT CCR.SS4-IN)
AnostoAl 0 & N Exaenditures and Water Charoes
| .  . , . . ."K  R  I  S  " N   A .  . . . . .             .K   U    K    A                  0        . . . . .)
P a H         Water       O a H    Wiatr_Ch&Frtar          0 aH           Water      O a m      WAt_r_SharoeG
Expenditure    Charges       Cover       Coll ction        Expenditure    Charge         Cover       Cgolectig
"atj                                                        Rate
(Re  000)    (Rs '000)        1M(                         (Rs  o000)    (Rs       )      (%)            Is)
1971/72        18,200          1.579        8.6          aS                  27              152       563              7              1
1982/03        24.300          1.531        6.3          79                  70              234       334             16               I
1983/84        30.500          1.447        4.7          77                  9O              284       312             40
1984/85        39.670          1.796        4.5          72                 550              322        59             52
1905/06        53.990          2.793        5.2          47               2.415              444        to             59,
c0
'0



yAHARASHTRA IRRICATION 11 PROJtCT tCR.954-1N)
Summary - Total Cropgag Area, Ciiuam$nm   Irrinadtipn Intenpitles. Farm Itc; M2
ojlge^e * $tfrh#wj KM2i ftlLljJjer Wdrdi,a
KRIS"NA                        *       ItUtKADI                                tiDR P  WAIJROHA
SAR                PCR       _SkAJ_____    ___ ecQ                          _AR                      PCR
Diet CCJA (ia)          74.000   74.000   74.000   74.0130   13?.000  132.000  146.000  146.000    7r.n0n0   75.DOlj  75.000  75.000
Total cropped           79.920  118.400   74.000  123.500   179.520  179.520  116.800  205.860    7fi.500   93.000  Cl,.%OO 100.500
area lha)
Total 'Irrigated                 115.440              85.100               179,520             121.180               81.750            bl.500
area (Ia)
Crovnnfiia Intensity (S)
Kharif                      83        ao        70        82         33        63        30        66         94        }?        70      92
Rabi                        22        59        20        61         66        71        49        72           7        30       tO       4n
Hot weather                  0         7         0        10          0         0         0          0          0         O        0        0
Perennial                  _          14        10        Il         I          2          1        3           1                  2 -      2
TOTAL.                  108       160        100       167        too       136        80       141        102       124       02      134
jfLjgM_Qtn IntemoistZ 1%)
Slharif                               76         I        50                   63        11        40                    77        2       40
Rabi                                  59        10        43                   i1         3        40                    30        6       40
Hot weather                            7         0        to                    0         0         0                     0        a O
Perennial                            J4         10       j]                   -            I i     -                      2      --        -
TOTAL                              156       21        115                  136        15        03                  109       10       82
Fdrm lfscome
Farm sile   (ha)              3         3         I         1          5         5          2         2         5         5        r        5
Natl IflL uhE  (M'd It b .4.)825   2tl.220    J.i.4    H,ZIII     4.4b45   21,541     2.23t     p.391    5.bII   22.b18   5.tizb  I9.H24
to



MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT tCR.954-lNI
Sspmmarw - Total Cronped Area, Croantoy and IrriEpatiot Intensities, Farm Inro
Scleae .  iLeeer Penoanuna. Warna East a..d Warna West
1JPPER PENGANGA                          WARNA EAST                            WAIRM4- WE ST
SAR                 PCR                 SAR                PCR                SAP                PCR
Wet CCA (hal           126.000  126.000   126.000  126.000   64.000  64.000   64.000  64.000   23.000  23.000   23.000  23.000
Total cropped                    17.660   126.000  204.120   65.280  88.960   70.400 100.480   23.460  30.590   24.150  34.960
area (hi)
Total Irrigated                  156.240               144.900             84.480             71.040             29.440             20.010
area (him)
Croopina Intensity () *
Kharif                      89        93         70        93        82       74        60       7S        85       69        60       76
Rab1                        19        46         27        46        it       40        30       SS         4       37        25       50
'Hot weather                 0         0          0        17         0        0         0       t0         0        0         0       10
Perennial                    2         3          3         6         9      _n        .20       17                __ 21      20       17
TOTAL                110       141        100       162       102      139       110      157        102     133        los     162
Irr1 atio]n IntensltY 4$)
Nharif                                73         IS        46                 66         0       44                 64         0       10
Rabi                                  45         12        46                 40        10       40                 37        tO       so
HuAt Weatla,                           0          0        17                  0         0       10                  0         0       10
Perennial                                         3         6                 2-        z 0                         27 220             It
TortL                          121         30       IIS                131        30      III                128        30       87
Fatm Ifscmk
Farm Size 'adi                5        5           5         5         3        3          1         1       3        3          1
Net 11C.oigie Ih.:        b.237  24.796       14.373   35.040    6.742  20.742    5,195    10.278   7.794  19.272    4.78b   9.545                   ,
C O



Itr16aI.fb!R!itr-D!QSl-t-l-e 1tr  SMt    Cow9 atii
lntesilss b    (IkIIMADI     41vulnII
__ ~~~~~.1!9.____.I^.........tw
SM       _       PtR  _M _I __   RI_                  __   R                           
P#Arl HOWlit Il                                        .                   I         t 6       i       It.  1     1. 1     i         .         i
Nail.                       iF                   I       a         a                  a         a         a                 a         *        a
it                  a       a         a                  a       l.A       II a                                   a
EWi agt                     o                    a    24.a      11.                   I         I         I                 6       3.6 
1i               19.?           1    .                V. S  s. 2.6         9.9              i            a      SA
Lilt..                                                                                                                   IVa a        a1.  36.3  25.0
13                1.        a         a                 *.6       1.6      5.                S.          a      s
Chilles                     or|                          @         @@                                      
II1.9             .         .a                            a         aa                          a        a
IR               13.9       I      a.l  We                       6.6      13.5               2.1       7.2      2.1
1e ~       ~~~~~                                                      2..:e              |.         *     1.
ct"paIR                                l.Sil      t         1.               7.t       t.l      t.                 5* bA              5 94 9 7t
lifi                        IR                l.il    l.t ID    6                             It      41                77         2 
fdlr                      Uf                                                        *       3.1         1                 a        a         a
Nat,I be(ui.l               IR                  6        I         I                1.6       t.l      2.t                *s         a t     .a^
Ctqip,mqiteuo,t,s            (111 t                    .  19     7  ,?33           *'        3e       li        S!       1?       n          ?
1~~~~~1
Sit                         Ii                  I        I         I        6         6         6         6                 6      2.          6 
itt              2,.4 1 a.         25.6       2.6     26.1       3.6      11.4              19.6       6.t      19.1
Sva.z mn g1                                     I      t.1      26.6     55.6      2 .1    3U.1        9.4                  I        I         I
it               19.6       I         I         I     17.1                26.4               4.1         6     14.
oi f.1                       I        I         I         I        6         I                 I         6         I
cwaa                        Vr                  I      3.6         I      L o                2.        4.7                 I      2.6 
II               16.1       *      14.1         I      9.6         6       3.2               4.3         I      4.3
itable egism)               le                4.                 4.1        I       3.6         I         6               2.6        *       3.1
p.lit"                      t                 7.6        I         I        I       3.1         I         I               1.6                  I 6
Sa6EloueISwmf,t             Sr                  I        6                7.6         6       0.6      18.90                                   I
Ctrnitqhem.sta              it)    ?         ss       29        i3       *         n 1!               72       7. !          3t    ! 
1'
Irti,atima l s i! ss                                   ! t )                                .3       41                36        A         43
r..dage                     SE                S          a      to          a         I         a         a                 a *                6
Ciso.i a lmtst,.            117.0                        9      if !                            !         !                 !         9        I
i-i
MniIiOI ANNe..atp          Iii7 N                    n                           M   S         S                                 ifS  6
Sq wthsaitmlIr.                      3.6      62.3    16.6      t6        I         ?         t         I        1        2         7        2
!9Az  r !t!!LL'!'A1!!!   '3'  ItS           I"       199       !tt? ill           L"        '9         !       I!?      !?d!      97       64t
IOI   ifiz  A!r!W! i!jtL"s!!l II            !56      .71      fl5                 13         !5       93                !1        !19       ' 



'     ~~~ARW1NQ!LiL -
rim s  tli tis Jut    Cie   by         So  a  1   lvs
SOKEIS: W93  hMMN
Ip     PEIEAI                         WSIA FAST AltA                         VARIA  EST AREA
U  II     U          U ~ ~         ~ ~           ~    ~ I    U  U     U         U       I       U
OF            5.6      5.9      7.9                  1      35.0     16.0                   6    30.1    25.0
1l           36.1      3.9     22.9               36.6         6     26.0                1I.6                I
Fadil,                or               I        I        I                  I         I      1.6                           I        I
1i            6.6      6.1      7.6                7.1         0      5.6                35.3       0     5.0
9ueaI Nillet          OF               I        I        I                  I         I        I                   I       I        I
llire                 IF               I        I        I                  I         I      1.1                           0     5.6
i1              6        I        0                2.0         0      4.0                   6               0
Gesudost               IF              I        6        0                  0      12.5     12.6                   6     7.5    25.0
it            9.6        I        6               15.6         6     12.0                15.0       6        6
totieft                IF           16.0    29.4      19.8                                     I                   I       0 0
IR           26.6        0      5.1                  0         0        0                   1       6       D
Chillies/Tobacco       IF              I        O        0                2.1       2.5      1.0                   0     2.5     5.0
It            4.6      5.0     10.0                5.0         0      4.0                 2.6       6       D
V,etables              It            3.0      0.3      6.8                3.0         0        0                   6       1     5.0
Aries                  IF            2.0    15.1      15.1                7.6      10.6      1.t                 5.0    21.3     5.0
piqen Fpa             RF               6      7.4      2.4                  6         1      4.0                   6       6        6
Foeder                 IF              I      2.6      2.6                  0         0        I                   I       a        a
lueric/Cinqe7          TR              6        I        1                3.0         0         0                2.6       6        O
Cropiping Iniensity lO     P9       n        70       93      98         74        66       75        85        69      66      75                                             |
ltrrigation tntensity (U1  -        73      1`r       4t                 67 Q     Q         44                  64       !      Tof 
Iet;                  RF               6      3.0        a                  I         6        I                   I       I        0
KR           36.6    11.0    1M0e                 20.6     10.6      25.0                29.0   10.1    25.6
Sorqlhun              OF               0      7.6        6                  0      15.6     1.0          0             1    1 
to            .1.        6     18.6                9.0         0      5.6                 2.0       6    20.6
6Cai                   RF              6      3.1        0                  0       5.0      5.0                   0     5.6        0
12            6.6        6      8.6                5.0         6                          5.8                0
llai;e                 RF              I        I        a                  0         6        0                   616.6            0
IP            3.6        6        0                2.6        0       5.0                 5.6       I       0
Saflouever             RIF                    2.6       1                   0         0      5                     6       6 I
JR              I        I     1,0.                  0         6      5.6                   6       I        I
Veql able (onion)      IP              I        0        0                5.0         0      5.0                 5.0       6      5.0
.rPping lnirnsitp (1)    19       45      217       46        Il       46        36       55.       4         37.6e   25      56.6
Irrigation Intensity 12)  -__                T?                _                   To 4!  I            0        377     To      se:
N ot metie
ZiiiiFUV-              le      I       6              15.9                  I         6     10.0                   I       I    1t.0
Fodder                 le              I        0      1.6                  6                 I                   S       6        I
Cropping Inipasity (I)    19           1        6     17.4                  I         1     10.0        0          0       1    116.
Irrigation Intenst, (2)                6 I            rr                         I          t 1                    I       I    Trif
Perooniat                                                                                ~ 
Suqarcane MI1lin)      JR   P.0        3      7.3      3.5       9.0     23.6      19.0     10.1       13.1     25.     110.   10.0                                      hI0
Sugarcane IPateen)    lI      0        6      0.7      2.5         0        0      1I.6      6.6          0        0    10.0     7.6
Lucerne                1P     0        0        D        6         0      2.0         -      1.6          0      2.0       0        0
Ttal CropPtn Iont. (2)  lIP       141      too      16?       le?      139       lie      157       !0?       133     lOS      IS?
Toata  Jrr:'ption lntA(?  --       121      -6J      Its                TA?      -l        ITT                 r29      30 



LAI'tH
MHASNRA IRRICATION 1I PROJECT (CR.954-IN)
Clrp Yejlsd Iton/ha  b  Srhpso
so -     ---- - --                             C I
~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ h ~~wper            U~~iPrTI          iFiVI,Fn
Krishna       luladi         litdha      Penganqa        East hest
Iharif
SiE1iim           Local         IF   3      0.7       0.9           0.6            1.1            -             -
Local/N       IF   V     0.7        1.4          1.8                          1.5           2.0          2.0
NYU           Il   9     1.6        2.0          1.9              -           1.9           2,?          2.4
HYV           It   1     3.5        3.0          2.5            2.0          3.6            2.9          2.8
Paddy              Local         RF   9      1.7       14              -              -            -              -            -
HYV       IF/IR   9      2.5        2.0          1.8            1.5             -           1.9          2.0
MTV           IR   U     4.0        3.1          2.B            2.0          2.6            2.5          2.Y
tearl Millet       Local         IF   9      0.4       0.8           0.9 0.4                       -              -          I.6
Local/Y    . TR   V      2.0        1.2          1.8              -             -           2.5          I.t
Hsize              Local/HYU    IF   9       1,2          -            -              -            -            173 t7
Local/NWV   la   U       2.4          -          2.2              --                        2.0          1.0
Groundnut          Local/YV 8F/J R           0 B6       1.2          1.5            1;             -           1.5           1.3
Local/NYU IF/II   U      1.5        1.0          2.1            1.5                         2.0          1.8
Cotten             Local         IN   3      0.3          -            -            0.9 C.2                      -             -
Hybrid        II   1     1.B          -            -            1.8          2.5              -
tcneric            NYV           IR   9        -       3.5
NYV           IR   U     3.1        4.0            -              -             -             -            -
Onion              HYV           IR   U    20.1           -         1891           14.1         16.0
Chillies            Local/MN  IF/IR   9                              1.5                         1.1           1.2           1.0
NYV          i1    U       -          -          1.9            1.9           1.5           1.7          1.8
Polses             Local         IF   9      0.4      .05            0b6            I.4         06            0.6           0.7 O-
Local        IF   U      0.6        1.0          0.9            0.5          0.92/ 02912   1O2
Fodder             HV            it   3        -          -         16.1              -         1. 0
HYV          IR   U    23.0           -         18.0              -         12.0              -            -
Rabi
Ileit              Local         IF   8      P.         0.9            -            1.6          1.2
local/HYU    IR   8      1.5        1.8          1.5            1.3           1.5           1.5          1.3
NYU           II   U     2.5        2.5           1.8           1.8          2.0            2.6          2.0
Sorvhun            local/NYU Or/JR   8       0.5       0.5           0.5              -          12            0.7            -
Local/NHY  IF/IP   8     1.6        1.2          6.7              -           1.7           1.6          2.0
NYU           It   U     3.6        2.5           1.5           1.5          2.0              8          2.9
Raine              Local         IF   I        -          -            -              -            -              -          0.7
NYU           JR   U     3.2          -                           -             -           2.0          2.2
Cran                Local        IF   B      0.5       0.6           6.5            1.4          0.7            0,9          2.4
Local/NYU IFIl   1       1.2        1.2          1.2            1.5          1.5            1.2          1.7
Potatoes            NYU         1 t        17.5          -                           -            -              -
NYV           It   U    20.1          -            -           21.1             -             -             -
Ueuotab)e (onion)  NYV            It   U       -          -         20.0           16.6             -                       23.8
Safflower           Local        IF   7      0.4          -          6.6              -          0.6                     -
Local        OF   U      0.6          -          0.9                            -
NYU           11   1       -          -            -              -          1.3
Hot weather
CHOrioffl-         local/NYV IF/JO   I         -        1.6            -            6.7          2.6              -
TYU           JR   U     2.6        3.0                           -          2.2                         2.0
Perp,ni"I
Suarecane -
ian    -          YU           11   G    95.1      102.1         80.10           Bt0          98.0          111.0         85.0
HYv           11   U   115.0      11l.6       110.00          1t0.1        16041          120.t        101.0
lamton            NRY          IR   U    71.0       80.0             -              -         7n.1          75.0          66. 
NW            It   U    7. 0      85.              -              -         81.6           81.0         81.0
Luccrne             NYU           it   U    21.1       20.0            -                            -          16.0
1 7 - Si P-- feTat r.. -a IT--l  i W .
7t O*lt I  rl r.rro z ni,^.



INDIA
MHAARASH7RA IRRIGATION It PROJECT tCR.954-IN)
Aaricultural Production t0OOO toni at Full Develoonment by Scheme
UnO)er    Upper    Wd. *.a   Warna       Iotga.
KLrshna   KuIad1i    Wai"'e  Penuanna  Eaa          West       ProUect
Foodqrain
Sorghum               76.22   135.68    53.63   149.84    65.92    26.45           507.74
Wheat                 46.25    27.33    25.6S    25.20    32.00    11.50            167.93
Paddy                 39.96      5.31     IS.O0    22.93    10.24           -        93.44
Pulses I/             20.57    2S.51       5.25    25.11       6.72      1.38        84.64
Others  Y/             _        41.34       _           O    12.35    ____Q          53.69
Total            183.00   235.17    99.53   223.08   127.23    39.33            907.34                              1
l41
Other
Groundnut.            49.29    28.50       5.63    42.97    42.50       12.77       181.60
Veetables             6 59.20    54.67    81.76    3S.03       8.92      5.29       244.86
Sugarcane           939.80   438.00   153.00   693.00 1.011.21   358.80    3.590.80
Cotton                    0         0    28.50    47.78           0         0        76.28
l./ Includes mung, beans, pigeon peas, gram, peas
2I Inclujdes maize, bajra
l7 Inclusdes chillie. onion
-4
SD
0A



NARAWAIWA IRRIGATION 11 IROJECT (CR 954-INI
Annea1 lncrenental Agricsltvral Production ('S00 tons) al -Fll De,eloRment - sA, PCI Comparison
Utett        UlP                            a       rna                     Total
Krishna         lotadi        Wardha          Ppnvanoa    varn  ras   Varna Veilt    Varna Total            Project
SAR      PCR    SA       FCR   FA     PCR    SA        Pt   S R   SAR   P SAR    PCR    SAO PCl                      Pr                                 w
tz)
Sorghun      74.87   45.14  169.14   98.65  67.17  31.93  103.70 119.26   -   17.9?   -   12.65   4b.04   30.57    I0?..11    315.55
Uheat        37.03   32.93   62.04   20.76  42.19  19.91   90.42  -2.92   -   2?.40   -    9.51   29.93   30.91    310.32    lCI.48
Paddy        25.80   26.64    4.36    2.69  13.72  12.75   15.75   9.B8' -   10.24   -            0   94.73   11.24    157.35      62.19
Pulses 1/     4.49   19.46   14.43   18.79   0.0P   2.49   -9.04   9.00   -    3.84   -   -2.24    5.07    1.60          26.18     51.34
Other 2i     -0.27  -10.66   16.42   16.18        1  -0.12        0      1        12.35   -       0   10.33   12.35      57.51      17.65
Total    137.80  13.51  266.39  146.96 123.06  65.95  201.83 136.12   -   66.75   -   18.92  196.90   85.67  1,162.97    548.21
Other
Groundnuts    17.58   18 65   27.56   24.23    7.60   2.79  12.06  42.97   -  30.50   -   10.50         1.11  41.01      87.17    129.63
Veqetable 3/ 107.90   59.20  214.51   30.58   63.75  81.75  53.55  20.15   -   7.3?   -    5.29    38.40  12.61    527.42    204.74
Sugarcane    776.18  195.00  140.24  321.20   79.69  30.00 144.90 399.42   - 109.02   -   25.30 2,40U.8     -83.50  2,408.28    8B2.12
Cotton         4.03        0                 0   15.99  12.60  31.42   3.33   -      0   -       I    78.84       0     7.84       15.93
1'   includes zonqI piqeon pea, bPans, grail/peas
g/   Inclvdec nze, bajra
3J   Inclodrs clhMie, *nin



INDIA
UAHARAS"TRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT (CR.954-114
Economic Input Costs and Farm-Gate Prtcel
Seed                           Farm-Gate Price
(Re/kg)                              (Rs/Mt)
2/                                   2'
1/    ADJUSTED                      I/     ADJUSTED
UlR         PLR          $AR       PCR            PER      l
Sorghum             0           4.7        10.0       1.300          675      1,420                       Other Innuts
(Rs)
Paddy               4           2.0         2.S       1.300          675                                 I2
17     ADJUSTED
millet               7          3.6         10.0      1.800          935      1,410                   esR         .  PC l        SAR
Grrisntcine,t      In           5.2         4.5       4,400        2.786      2.670   N              7.10/kg       4.00/kU    4.4t/kg
Chillics           50          26.0        40.0       7.000        3,637      7.7n0    P 0           6.70/hg       3.48/kg    4.05/h1
Pulses              5            2.6          -       3,000         1.558    .1800   K 0             4.00/kg       2.08/kg    1.63/kg            4
2
Wbeat               4            2.1        2.5       2.20n        1.143      I.530   dahour            7/day      3.64/day   2.60/day
Maiae               10          S.2         3.5       1.800          935      1.410   Bullock pair   20/day    10.39/day   9.60/day
GCam                6           3.1         2.2       3.500         1.819     2.140
Safflower           7           3.6         3.0       3.000        1.558      2.700
Onions             28           14.5       25.0       1.500           779       600
Sueafcacle          0.1         0.05        0.05        380           197       160
Cotton             70          36.4         3.0       h.900        3,585      5.440
Potatoes            6           3.1          1.7      2.000        1.039        860
Tume,Ic             a           4.2         1.9       8.000        4.157      4.400
I/  These prices were used in the economic analyvss and based on financial price averages per scheme and adjusted
i,sternational IORD Commodity Price forecasts tor 1995 dated It March 1987 in constant 1985 UbS.                                        0
z/  the 197R7/19 val.e adjustments are based on the Wholesale Price Indlew and are Indlcated here to comgeare with the SAR
bt imAtedl pC It t1%.



,w w   w1W!le l!-2-s-r--s-n-!!- 4   --'s~~--------
*r~~~~~~~. r            .1    2.   1.        4.   5.   0.         7.   1.       S.   1.1   1.1    .12   1.        140   1S1   .1E     C  1 .     171    II    21          22    236   5  2     259     2b.  12;
btnsrnttl           ~~~~~.0   6.9    2.0   5.8   6.6   14.9  18.8  ?B. I  28.5  59.P  68.5  52.8  59.5  91.5  W|.8  12t.  IM7lSJ.   8t, .7  131.7  108.2  117.7  1?6.2  113.7  126.4  126. 4  12E.4  74.S
CCCSrSlt  t$           .1   3.11   3.7   3.6    3.4    3.2   2.B    ?.3   2.2   2.1   2.1   2.0   1.7   1.4   S.]   1.2   1.?   1.1   I.t   1.1    1.1    1.'   I.t   l.t   1.8    l.t   1.9    1.4
Icwestmir  I adpstid        1.1   3.3    7.3  21.9  22.6  48.2  52.  6U.2  62. 5  127.4  WA2.  IU6.5   9.9  123.7  136.2  140.6  134.9 111.2   el.7  131.7  140.2  117.7  126.2  113.7  126.4  126.4  12S.4  74.5
rDetits It11*  1.8  4.8 t.t  l.t  8.1   1.8  18t.t  *.1 t.l   1.8   1.1  t.t   2.4   4.7   7.1   9.4  11.8  14.1  1E.S  18.9  21.2  23.6  2...............9 2E1.3 31.7   3.1  35.
Itgntmt 11                  0.6   0.9    2.0   5.8   6.6  14.9  18.0   UP.1  213.5  59.0  MES   52.0  59.5  VIA  117.0  121.1  117.0   n.   81.7  131.7  188.6  221 .? 222.2  218.2  172.t   51.1                   25.7    .4
laesntmsn il adjustd        0.1   3.3    7.3  21.9  22.6  48.2  52.4   63.2  62.5 1U7.4  M4.5  10U.5  S1'.9 123.7  136.2  148.6  134.9  11t.2  81.7  111.7  IFS.  221.7  222.2  214.2  172.9  51.1  25.7    7.4
poet ppnf h t I             1. l  -3.3  -7 .3  -2 .9  -22 .6  -4t .2  -52.4  -E3.2  -62 .5 -I Z7.4 -IU2.5 -116 .5  -9P .S -123 .7 -136 .2 -I U. 6 -134 .9 -Itl .2  -81.7 -131 .7 -MIIS.2 -115 S *122 .6E -118e.3 -119 .3 -117 .5 -IIS.?  -E .t
lWt Imtit       11          I.S  -3.3  -7.3  2?1.9  -22.t -ce.2  -52.4  -63.2  -b2.5 -127.4 -142.5 -116.5  -9P.9-121.3 -131.5 -l"4.b- 125-5  -&q.4  -".6  tl5.2 -169.8 -1993 *IS8.7 -IS9?. 3 -14U.1  -19.4    -.3   2f .t
lr r                   29    29    '4    31        32    33    34       35    36    n7    3g3    39    41    41    42    43    U4    4              46    47    48  49-$l
Ben.^tits 1        ~~~~14.3  16.1  17.9  19.7  '211.5  ?3.3  2.5.1  76e   28.6  3e.4  3?.2  34.1  35.0  r?.6  39.4  41.1  4U.9  44.7  41.5  4q .3  Sl.l  Sl 5Y
Insfftts t          tl.l~?I-   21.1   21.1  21.1  21.1   21.1  21.1  tl.l   21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1   7.t   7.4   7.4   7.4    74   7.4   7.'   7 '
ctn-siso tastir             l.t   l.t    1.1   1.8    1.1    I.t   1.1    1.1   1.1   1.1   I.t   1.1   1.1   1.1    1.1   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1    1.1   1.1    I.t
lavestti I adpsttd         21.1  '71 .1   21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1   .1.1  21.1  21.1I  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1   7.4   7.4   7-'   7.4   7-4   7.4   7.'    7-'
Wrnests 11                 37.7  41.1  42.4  4t.8  47.?  49.5  51.9S         1. 51.9 Sl .9   51.9   51. 9 Sl.S5 I 51.9   51.9 S.         51.S   51.9   51.9 S! .9   51.9   51.S98 
Ionsts         It 1         7.4   7.4    7.4   7.4    7.4    7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   ?.4   7.4   7.4    7.4
Ins.etiest 11 idjcstCd      7.4   7.4    7.4   7.4    7.4    7.4   7.4    7.4   7.4   7.4   7 A    7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7 4   7.4   ?.4
Nt kXnelils I              -6.0  -S.l  -3.2  -1.4    0.4   2.2   *.1    5.e   7.5   9.3  11.1  12.9  1t 7   16.5  l.t.  13.7  !5 5  3r.3  tS,l  4t .9  Q?.7   U4 5
plet Bentfits 11          30.3  32.7  35.P   VA.  39.8  42.1  44.5  44.5  w*S   44.5  44.5  44.5  44,5  44.5  U4.5  44.5  H.S   44.5  U4.5  44.5  44.5   *t.5
llet lntt 
fair it  tcnl8
Svilchtq  salves for cpportttl tcost ocapistal   MIT1
NDlltl 11"*bts 1                        12.39               4*lU.t
PilOl tl la swnt I adjusteBd          -513 Ae                 -n71
of1  F4Al                     -Stl.69
FliSSII WIN1S       SinDllC>ilr WtlFS*
pinRl  bat   1                          I1.6                 1 1?7.S                                                                                                                                                            .
WWPtlIbws"n   1jJtC                   -1                      -S7.?l
tl I 14 t."l't                 4tt f



- , - ^(3, 1111k.)
tmm
*sw                    3     I      2      3      4     5       ,    7      I      9   13    11    12   13    14    nS           1     17    I    19    2    21    22    2314N    25    26                     7
hwfths I                   3.3    3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   1.3   1.9   2.9    3.9   '.3   5.3   1.3   7..    .7   9.7
INa   ttmIs 131.1   2.?   t.3   1.1   I.?   4.6  32.1  5J.2 114.t  53.0  95.1  %..  195.3  132.5  134.5  34.3 .127.5 124.1 118.7 117.3  119.1 122.2  116.9  117.9  117.9  115.1  117.1  116.4
Ctwsi tatitt               3.3   1.4   3.2   1.3   2.3   2.2   2.1   2.1   2.3   1.7   1.4   1.3   1.2   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.1 1.3   3.3   1.3    1.    1.3   1.6   1.-   1.3   1.3   1.3  13.
lalast I ipJuSI           l.t   9.2   2.5   2.7   2.1  1U.l  50.1  11.3 2M1.1  11.2  117.1  122.3 129.9  152.9  111.3  34.3  127.5  124.1  118.7 117.!  119.1 122.2  118.9  117.1 117.t H1.A  117.2 111.4
wtits 31                   1.1   I.J   t.l   6.l   3.1   3.8   1.8   1.1   8.t   1.3   1.1   3.1   3.1   1.1   I.t   1.1   2.3   3.4   4.6   5.7   *.B   t.3   9.1  11.3  11.4  12.5  13.7  14.
Itu iemt It               3.3   2.?    31.3   1.    12    4.5  32.3   9.2  134.1  53.3  86.1  95.7  135.3  132.1  114.5  34.3  127.5 124.1 236.7 237.2  237.4  m.7  238.5 m2.  239.2  21.1  211.9  141.3
Ieutau  11 aIdjsted        3.3   9.2   2.5   2.?   2.5  1t..  53.1  11.3 239.5  116.2  117.6 122.3  09.11 152.  111.3  34.3  127.5  124.1 236.7 237.2 237.4 2M7.  238.5  239.4 719.2 21t.1  213.9  143.,
i lknenls I               1.3  -4.2  -?.5  -2.?  -2.5  -1.3  -53.1 -113.3 -29.5 -131-.? -117.6 -122.3 -129.0 -12.9 -111.3  -34.3 -127.5 -124.1 -117.7 -115.9 -111.1 -118.4 -112.1 -112.1 -111.1 -139.9 -113.4 -136.7
ont leacls It              3.3   4.2   -2.5  -2.7  -2.5  -13.3  -58.1 -111.3 -2M.6 -11. -117. -122.3 -129.8 -152.9 -111.3  -93.2 -125.2 -123.7 -232.2 -211.5 -233.1 -I9, -191.4 -91 .I  11   -1917.5 -17.2 -12 .1
98m"
Test                  28    29    3       31    32    33    34        5    3A    37    38    39    41    41     4?4'-
kSesiu     I 1.5  11.5  12.5  13.3  14.5  15.4  1U.4  17.4  18.3  11.3  21.3  21.2  22.2  23.2  24.1  25.1
lnstants 1               117.t 111.5  115.4  115.1  111.5  115.5 117.1  117.7 112.8   9.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   3.7
ceswsen  Uatt.             1.3   1.3   1.3 1.3   1.1          1.1    1.3   1.3   I.3   1.1   1.1   1.3   1.3   1.t   1.1   1.3
Icutea t I aijusiw       117.3  111.5  115.4  115.1 115.1  116.5 117.1  117.7  112.3   5.?   8.7   9.7   8.7   8.7   9.7   3.7
ImOIs 11                  11.3  17.1  It.?  It.4  2t.3  n1.t  22.8  24.3  25.1   i.l  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1
Isstasut  nI              53.4   1.?    .7-  3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   0.7   1.7   e.7   5.7   0.7   8.7   9.7   3.7   8.7
Itmiat  31 adjutai        5t.4    3.t    7.7    3     .7   3.7   1.7 3.t    t.7    3.1    t.t    t.7    8.7    9.7    9.7    3.7   3.7
hut t$its 1             -1II.4 -115.t -11?.0 -12.5 -132.1 -1I1.t -1It.7 -101.3  -9.?  II.&  11.5  12.5  13.5  14.5  15.4  31.4
lNu   ertlits 11         -34.4   0.4   9.5  13.7  11.3  13.0  14.1  l5.3  1A.4  15.4  11.4  14.4  3.4  16.4  16.4  16.4
3  t.ts I
1#t0 tt rait@ 42 8
Swuic1aq Men f1f   SWtmitt C*t of coital a 12.1
.*             n~(ENT IUIS         U1OtW   4W!
ieU  he e  ls 1                        V.                 Sm.k
:t-.1 law.inmtt I adjnted           -m2.95                 -9.3
onW 2E mu-553.32
Nut beefats It'
SkitiOq *allff 1st eftvait) tcost of apitUl r 12.31
PtEMI ZlUES         51111.!11t MIES 
*Ricitr  Seedfits It                  15.13               I.M._
9iBfl. In nestset 11 adjusted       -11.11                 -97.4
pr  ii PA,                   -612.58



_0A4 1!!L 419C122  11J6038C1 3(3.954-Ill
fit - 1'34222
S  1  2  3     4      5      3     ~~~~~~~~~7  6  9    t6    it    22    23    14    Is    26    27    Is    t9    22    21    22 23                  2      25    26    2*7
h..fui  I  ~~~~~16.   6.6    6.6   6.6    6.6   6.0   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.0   6.6    6.6   4.7   9.3   4.6  16.7  23.3  29.1  3V.   37.   4? 6  46.6  51.3  56.6  61.6  65.3  69.9
2s2wi~I              6.6   6.0    0.4   1.5   4.3   5.3   9.5  14.3  56.9  65.9  69.7  63.7  63.2  113.4  113.4  161.4  194.9  16.6.  161.,  33.5  36.5  37.1  29.4  34.5  33.9  34.6  33.2  35.9
cmmwsi" fnh'o              6.0   3.6    3.7   3.6   3.4  .3.2   2.6   2.3   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1    1.7   2.4   1.3   2.2   2.2   2.1   2.0   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.0   1.6   2.6
2nmt.n2 I sdjntd           6.  06.2    1.0   5.3  14.7  17.6  26.3  32. 1211.4  141.3  194.7  168.7  225.  259.1  143.3  221.4 213.7  I96.  26.0  33.5  36.   37.1  WA.  34.5  33.6  34.6  33.2  35 9
kooeifa  22                6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.  6  .6   6.  6  .6   6.6   6.6   0.6   e.g   s.1   g.e   6.7  17.3  26.0  3A47   47.3  52.6  63.7  69.3  79.3  96.7
la*2w.tin  22              0.0   6.6    6 4    2.5   4.3   5.3   9.5  14.3  52.9  65.9  9B.7  63.7  43.2  116.4  113.4  MA918424.9  16.8.  161.9  32.6  43.3   VA.   V.8  51.5  99.9  96.9  85.5   92.9
loi..eu l 12 adjpsw.d      6.6   6.2    2.4   5.3  24.7  17.6  26.3  32.1 1M2.  140,3 234.7  161.7  2*5.2  159.2  1(3.3 222.  223.2  INA.  26L.   32.1  43.3  T.4   5-7.   59.5  99.8  99.9  85.5  92.3
Not kwi*is I               6.6  -2.I  -2.4  -5.3  -24.7  -17.1 -26.3  -32.1 -2111.4 -246.3 -104.7 -268.7 -165.2 -154.4 -214.6 -227.4 -194.3 -257.3 -233.8  -6.9   6.8    S 9   27.2  16.9  22.1  26.6  32.   34.6
Nei Ieoqf)2%  It           6.6  -0.2  -1.4  -5.3  -24.7  -17.6  -26.3  -32.2 -122.4 -146.3 -254.7 -168.7 -285.1 -259.2 -143.3 -222.4 -213.2 -166.6 -25S3.2  -24.5  -17.3  -17;.7  -24.5  -7.5  -219.1 *19.5  -7.5   4.9
lii,            ~~~ ~~28    29    36    31    32    33    34    35    36    3?    39    39    46    41    42    43    44    45    46    47    48    49    St                                              .
luufil; 1                 74.6  79.3  13.9  99.6  93.3  97.9  122.3  267.2  M1.9  116.6 12.2  225.9  236.6  135.2  279.9  144.5 249.2  253.9  253.5  163.2  167.9  172 5  1-.2 
1n,vteitua  1             29.3  37.   36.4  35. 3   37.6.  37,9  38.5  322.3  36.9  22.5  26.2  25.3  23.6  24.4  24.6  14.6  24.6  246  24.6  24.6  24.6  21.6  !4.6
c,m,euti,g.title?          1.6   2.6    2.0   2.3   2.6   1.6   2.6   2.  .0 2.           .6   2.6   2.6    2.  .0 2.6   2.6   2.6          1.0 2.6      1.6 2.6   2,6        2., 1.
1P,ft11Wft1 i Id3@s2d     29.3.  37.7  36.   35.3  32.6  37.9  38.5  33.3  36.9  22.5  26.2  25.3  213.6  24.4  24.3  24.3  24.3  14.6  24.6  24.6  24.6  14.3  2'.2
NW4111s 22                9.3  164.6  222.7  222.3  230.6  238.7  147.3  256.6  164.7  173.3  2312.1 196.' 109.3  I99.3  299.3  199.3  199.3 199.3 199.3  299.3  199.  I2K.3  10c.3
1ssonuu2t It              7.5  63.9  ,12.   41.4  29.2  14.6  24.6  24.6  24.6  24.6  14.6  14.6  24.3  24.3  14.3  24.3  24.6  14.6  24.6  14.6  14.6  14.   14.6
lUSKinhU4ut 21die3ISd    77.5  33.9  16.9  42.4  29,2  14.6  24.3  24.6  246   24.6  14.6  24.6  24.3  14.3  24.3  24.3  14.6  14.6  14.3  24.3  24.6  24 6   3'.6
Nei k6ot4i2ts I           4A6   42.3  47.5  53.3  31.3  62.6  34.1  2.9.  75.1  94.2  9S.2 262.6  117.1  112.9  23.3  1-29.9 2-34.3  139.3  243.9  148.6  153.3  Ir .9  WU.6
Mel kecef,ts 11           27.9  43.2  52.7  36.6  260.9  224.1  23.7  242.4  256.2  259.7  167.4  273.2  134.7  284.7  184.7  2224.7 264.7  294.7  284.7  194.7  294.7  W8.?  I's ?
Metv oqf t,ir 112
hililsiaq falmu  fi *peflrnlwv Cetis  Ca pitl.  22.6A
P6EV! 6AUIS         961TcH261 WIES
FWEcl Smfi                              6.72                49s.3
OICi,mci tuiwma  I ealjsutd          -544.97                 -222.9
MEI SALWa                    -423.24
setkel   it2
Isip St 1CSf    .9
S.110Ii00           opistrig"I$tuu,t cost t1clieI 2.61
268511 VAt2IfS      SV21CHW2U  1321S
PITUrf h.mfait 22V. 19                                      525.9
UONCHInltio?22*jte                  -574.70                 F1'. 
MEl WAKE~C                   -4!9.51



MISA
UM3!!j     Tjil!l f mmECI 6.95-13)
*     W-   WWAE
. .                                                                     {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h Billia
omm
Yew                    e     I      2      3      4                                      t o 7  3  * 1  II 12n 12    14      5s   1 1         t      19 2e    21    22                24    a5    2   27
kWinl I                    0.3   e.e   .0.   0.0   0.3   e.0   e.0   5.0   0.0   3.e   3.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.5  11.4  25.7  31.1  41.5  51.1   U.2   2.6   2.9t  93.3  183.7 114.1  124.4  134.3
Iwuuo.wmIs  I              0.0   3.2    1.3   3.0   3.4   4.6   A.4   51.1  57.6  53.4  110.1  02.7  117.2  171.0  058.7  129.3  126.4 331.1  312.1  3M3.7  34.7  175.3  53.4  51.3  32.7  15.1  15.1  15.1
erwslW  fater             3.0   2.4   3.2   2.3    2.1   2.2   2.1   2.1   2.0   1.7   1.4   1,3   1.2   1.2   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.3   1.0   1.3   1.0   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.6   t.3
lmutat I djp6d            1.0  Il.9   5.9   3.2   7.7  11.1  75.5  122.5  11.5  33.9  137.6 U.5  215.1  2M2.9  11.3  129.1  121.1  301.1 362.6 313.7 334.7  175.1  53.1  50.3  32.7  15.1  15.4  15.1
infits It                   .    3.    3.    3.0   e.0   3.0   3.3    0.0   3.0   1.4   0.0   3.3   0.3   3.3   3.5  15.9  3.6  47.7  U.4  79.5   f.4  111.J  I27.2  143.1  158.9  174.3  190.7 231.1
Iawtuet 11                 0.    3.2   1.8   3.0   3.4   4.1  35.4  5S.1  57.8  53.4 103.3  127.7 1.?  17.305 13.7  129.1 102.6 142.5 148.S  121.0  119.7  016U.  141.9  124.5  112.3  114.1 119.1 007.7
lwtu sl It edJeetw         0.6   0.9    5.    0.3   7.7  02.!  75.5  122.3  116.5  63.8  037.3  161.5 M2.  M3.9.11    129.1  021.1  14.5  143.5  071.  1109.7  066.  141.9  124.3  112.3  114.3  019.1  117.7
hi  Wits 1                 0.0  -06.9  -5.9  -3.1  -7.7  -13.l -75.5 -122.1 -11.5 -t.. -137.0 -016.5 -255.1 -2U.9 -161.1 -113.7 -035.0 -311.1 -321.1 -34.9 -242.1 -102.4  29.4  41.5  71.1  98.4  10.3  009.2
ln Seeu#ils 11             010  -101,  -5.9  -0.3  -7.7  -11.1  -75.5 -127.1 -111.5  -83.9 -037.9 -016.5 -25. -252.9 -140.3 -113.2 -94.6  -94.8 -u5.S  -41.5 -24.4  -54.7  -14.0  16.2  41.9  6U.5  71    99.0
n98/
Y..t                 29    29    33    31    32    33    34    35    3  37-51
ksits I                  *.I 155.5  115.9  176.2  189.4  197.6 237.3  217.7 22S.1  258.4
ImeetsmOs I               05.1  15.4  15.6  15.4  15. 115.15.1  15.1  15.1  15.4
mm"rso    wttw            0.0  01.0   1.3   0.0   0.0   1.5   1.1   1.3   1.0   10.
legeatuget 1 a Wjested    15.1  15.4  15.6  t5..1t5.15.15.4  15.1  15.4  05.4
mits If                   m.5 23.4  2.30.4 42.4  238.4  219.4 23e.4 238.4 238.4 2.18.4
Owtlneu     11           121.3  33.8  05.   15.1  19-6  05.6  15. 105.1  15.1  1 5.6
liesigo 11 adjsted    121.3  83.1 15.4  15.1  15.6  15.1 15. 15.4  15.4  15.6
W  keiets 1              129.5  139.9  151.3  161.6 171.8  191.4  191.7  262.1 212.5 222.9
po  Welsls 11            181.2 155.4 2.8   222.   2.             222.3  22.  222.3  2?2.8
hi lu*sh: I
3aoe.I ruown * 2.5
S.tdheg uiless OP e 1 I e"teitl test of tapital * 12.02
PIIDT "UES S0lllOql liLIES
InE? 1"hls, 1                        045.9                 315.0
PIOET tomsteet I adjted             -473.59                -79.5
WI WAIU                     -52.47
hi b ilt  It
oaef trtvn 2 4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
Skoriq gain   e uppetesto  est fl    caial ' 12.? 
9R313  tltUFS       SITCU;!E t'SdES                                                                                                                                                    0
FIDIM           n                    I9.97                 21.?_
lIONEl b   tet 11 adjsted           -U.92                  47.!                                                                                                                                                         .o
Il  WA 1                    -412.05



Iola
EN - ! PQRe WFiOJ
tmtflftmfl,ft                -ta::S:arr     rr::::ter:   lflrt.:,sz _:r:::r-  =::-----::: :::                               -tr-r:aX=:::=:ee:=r--e :: . : ::=r:-e:::--. r-          se  e         :::-raa-e         :::::::
$976f7
re ,                   6      1      2      1      4      5      6      7     0      9     to    11    12  13          14    1S    14    I?    IB    19          21  ')    2'         23    24    25    27        27
kneile I                  6.6   l.e    e..   ..6   6.6    9.6   6.0    6.6   6.6    6.6   6.6   6.6  11.5  23.1  34.5  46.6  57.5  69.1  96.5  92.0  113.6  15.1 12S6.6  139.1  149.6  161.1 Sm.   184.1
Immtestzaus I              6.6   1.4   9.9  21.5  25.5  54.6  93.1  116.6  123.9  in9.7  95.4  85.6  1278.  136.6  154.6  161.6 11.9   74.4  87.9  38.2   7.5    '.5    .5    7.5   7.5    7.5    7.5   '.5
g.wtSIw  (stit             1.8   2.1   2.1   2.6    1.7    1.4    1.3    I.?    IJ    1.1   1.1   1.1 1.6                    .1 1. t 1.1 1.6    1.6   2.6   2.6    1.6    2.6   1.9    1.6   1. 1 1.6   1.6    1.6
laintemet I adjunst6       6.1   1.4   19.4  41.4  42.4  74.7  117.7  135.7  142.0 116.3  95.4  S5.6  1p8.6  136.1  156.6  IU4.6  11.9  74.4  87.9  38.2   7.5    7.5   7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5   7..
NtI benetits               1.1  -3.4  -1P.4  -41.4  -42.4  -74.7 -117.7 -115.7 -142.8 -116.3  -95.4  -85.0 -IIS.5 -113.0 -121.5 -114.1 -54.4   5.4  -7.4  53.9  96.1  11?.6  119.1  130.6  142.1  153.4  165.1 1276.
StrSZSrt:alSrGrSr:: :: =:rrr:
71?3/14
Teer               2P-51
k#Iat; I                 tf95.4
Iuentper.ts 1              7.5
(WItf?IIb #t4rth           1.1
leeujtmr.t I adj.ete       7.5
bit  ie'iti
6.1, *5 retetc 7 5.9
S1ctmiq valves for *ppsrteniIl tcst  of upisal  12.11
FtUSET VltAliS      WdeN1Vo11 PAtlES
t1IRi ZI ecc 1                         214.15                 165.9
P03Cn C    "tAt)   I eejt.. s ted     -569.42                 -U.4
St   mLum                    -355.27
_,
I.,



MOWN* INl           JI 11    ' P.frj'
t-K-m -  0s- I
ru..                   e     1      2     1      *     5      6     7       9    t    to    I      1.    13    14    r       16    67   1t    19   2n    21    22    n          24    25    26
34fits k's                  6.6   6.0   6.6   6.6   1.6   0.6   k.    6.3   6.6   0.6   6.6   1.6   6.6   1.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   1.6   1.9   2.9   3.9   4.6   S.t   6.0   7.7   1.7
lamluomt maiwe              U.S   9.2   2.5   2.7   2.        e .1   I. 1I6.A M2.  116.2 117.6 122.3 129.3  152.9 11.M3  84.3 127.5 124.1 113.7 11m.e  119.e  122.2 116.9  IM.  117.9 111.  117.6
wNftts  *pw Fowls           0.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   *.6   6.0   0.6   6.0   0.6   6.0   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6  0.0   3.4  26.7  31.1  41.5  51.0  62.2  72.6  82.9  9.3  113.7 114.1 124.4
litnunt Isytulmagaa         6.6  66.    5.t   33    7.7  16.1  75.5  122.0 116.5  59.6  137.8 161.5 215.i M2.9 161.3 129.1  1?Lt  331.1 312.6 31t.7 34.7  175.1  53.6  51.3  12.7 1 I6  15.6
3si nt Vow  kt*a            0.6   6.0   0.0   e.0   0.6   6.6   6.0   e.e   6.6   e.e   e.6   6.e  11.5  23.M  34.5  46.1  57.5  09.6  Si."  92.6  103.1  115.1  126.6 138.1  149.1  111.1  72.6
lsm1tewt tPpt  7al          1..   3.4  16.4  41.4  C.A   7.7  117.7 135.7 142.9 1U.3  15.4  E5.6  1'I.0  M3.3  X.6 1fO.0 111.9  74.4  87.9  3.2   7.5   7.    7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5
k6 its 1irs                 6.6   0.0   0.6   6.6   6.0   g.m   e.g   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   0.0   5.a   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   0.    6.    1.e   3.6   5.4  '.2    *.9   1.7
tIminal Ohii,hn             6.6   3.3   7.3  n.   22.0  46.2  52.4  63.2  11.5 127.4 142.5 116.5  9F.  123.7 130.2 114.t 134.9 Hl.1  96.7  W.7  113.2 i17.7 126.2 113.7  123.4 126.4 126.4
eaurtiI lebald              6.6   6.0   6.6   6.6   6.0   6.3   6.6   6.6   6.          6 6.   6 6.   6.6   6.    4.7   9.3  14.   18.1  23.1  20.6  32.1  37.3  42.6   46.  51.3  16.0  66    65.3
Iowmnjt  ot r0i             6.6   0.1   1.4   5.3  14.7  I'.   24.3  32.1 111.4 14.3  184.7  18.7  165.1  159.A  143.3 M1.  211.2 13.1 161.8  33.5  36.5  32.1  29.4  34.5  33.0  34.6  33.2
let Iu.etis                 6.6 -26.9 -15.4 -7B.5  -9.6 -166.6 -339.9 -463.9 -4.7 -579.0 -478.1 443.9 45.5 -746.9 414.6  173.1  617.2  07.1 -6. -3541.5 -37.6 -219.3  469.  -1.4    4.3  51.S  M1.9
*eap                  2 3 n   29 3    31  32  33  34 35 36 37   38 3t 4                                               42 43 4 45 46  4?    4 495
3w1its Marta                9.7  U0.6  11.0  12.5  13.5  14.5  15.4  16.4  17.4  If.,  IV.]  21.3  21.2   2.?  23.2  24.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1                                  U'
lsminv't liars             1166   117.6  111.6 115.4 111.6  116.6  111.5 117.1 117.7  112.0   8.7   8.7   2.7   3.7   6.7   6.7   6.7  6.7   6.7   3.7   1.7   6.7   9.7   9.7                              0
loWits Ibw  Pamse,.        134.3 145.1 155.5 115.9  170.2 196.6 197.0 207.3 217.7 2.1.1  233.4 233.4 238.4 2.4  A.4 213.4  238.4 23.4  23.3  25.4 23B.4 M2.  2.4  233.4                                     I
ltsnttwh   'wr PoNsau1q 15.6  15. 165.0  15.0  15.1  15.1  15.1  15.1  15.0  15.1  15.1  15.6  65.1  15.6  15.1  15.1  11.1  15.1  15.6  11.1  11.1  15.1  15.1  15.1
Witsi w        le          14.1111.1 195.6    195.0 M I9.1 095.1  195.4  195.4 191.0  1195.6 19.4  195.0  195.6 195.1  15.  195.1 195. .6 195.1    .195. 1 5.t 195.6 195.6  195.1
Ismn  si tpw   hurdl        7.5   7.1   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.1   7.5   7.5   7.1   7.5   7.5   7.5   ?.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   *.5   7.S C            .5   7.5   '.5
holts,  lish                1t.5  14.3  t .:  ;,.   19.7  21.5  23.3  25.1  26.8  79.6  3t.4  3.?  34.1  35.   376  39.4  41.1  42.9  44.7  46.5  4C.3  56.1  51.9  11.t
IFmims Wishes              74.5  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.   21.1  21.1  21.1   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4
aini foldi                   9.9  74.6    .3  6t3.9  08.1  93.3  97.9  10.0 167.2  111.  11.6 121.2 125.9 136.6 135.2 139.9 144.5 149.2 113.S  153  1U3.2  167.S  172.5 1J7I2
lansusut tdldi             35.9  2.6  37.7  36.4  35.3  12.6  37.9  3B.5  3B.3  36.9  22.5  2t.1  25.3  23.6  24.4  1.6  14J         .   14.0  64.6  14.S  t4.   14.6   4J.  14.S
llt beftts                 561.6 250.5  M59.1 M7.  29.1  318.6 330.  34.2 3b4.  3".4 521.6 52f.8    .9 546.7 552.7  63.  591.6 597.4 663.9 616.4 1161  423.3   9.7  634.4
Int of rtor a * 6.6
Setbiq suam  tt #wIprtl  ctsit of cpital *It.
?lET twthts V rn                      9.63             2459.9
tlJECO  Istin       tipr  a         145.93              I24.?
tRCN   uutotsit WaRdho              214.15              1I06.
P1t2NCI Dftis trleo                  12.39             19134.1
"MCI bwete   h,haii                  6u2                 n3.
PiSOECI lomint Varsa               -572.95              -413.7
hOME? h.nuiwut Mepe' pesqefsa    -678.59                .34.3                                                                                                                                                go
FID     IC ntte tpop  rrIbe        -519.42              -44l.?                                                                                                                                               _r
OOlE?c bnstin    tril,             -5163.18             -42.6                                                                                                                                                .
PR ME? Ielestat li6 'j             -564.97              -459.4
IVSAL4                     -we.,                                                                                                                                             ,                        U



t#               ~~~~~~~I  1    2      3      4      5      6      t      9     9      to     11    12      13    14    IS       16    17    lIs    U        |    ?I    22    23         24    r.    26
ktits  goa                     1.  1   .1   II    6 .1    1.1    0.0   0.0   1.8   0.         U     4 .1    0.0    1.1   1.0   1.0   1.1    2.1   3.4   4.6   5.7   b.16   8.1   S.    10.3  11.4  12.5  11.7
bIni t    NMI                 1.0   9.2    2.5   2.7    2.t  I1.1   W.I  tlf.e 2|9. 116.2  117.S  122.3  IMe.  15 .  111.8  P4.3  C17.5  1.4.1   1.7tE   21.2 2174  37-7  '210$.5 2tMA   M4.2  211.1  211.9
kwats *ppw * M4ag             1.1   t.l    1.1   t.t    t.l    0.1   0.1   t.l   t.l    1.1   t.l    I.t    t.t    1.1   1.1   15.9  31.8  *7.7  E3.6  79.s    V5.4  111.3  127.2  1<1.1  158.9  IP4.8  19t.7
lostwnt 1lt    tnan            1.1  10.9   S.9   t.3    7.7  10.1  ?5.5  172.  116.5   11111  137.  161.5 215.1  2t2.1.  1tl.l  129.1  126.6  1t2.5  149.5  1211.t 119.7 1IU.I  141.9  t2 .8  112.0  114.3  11.1
k1t011U WW tiXdta              1.1   0.1   1.1   1.1    1.0   .0.           0.1  .     .1   6.1   1.1    1.6  Il.S   23.8   'JWS   4*S.  57.5  69.0    e.s    2.   113.t IIS.I  126.6  1311.1  10.6  U}1.1 It7.6
lonl"ent 4per vatii            t.l   3.4  If8.4  41.4   U.4  t4.7  117.1  135.7 IU.8  116.1  95.4   MA.  1?ll.0  IUA.  156.1  16t.1  111.9  74.4  8 .9  38.2   7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5
Pmtils Ibrishm                 .1    0. t     .t   0. I     .l   t.t    t.l    I. t    .l    t. t     .9   t.t    1.1    2.4   4.7   7.1    9.4  Il.B  14.1   WS.  18.9  21.2  23.S  25.9  28.3  11.;  33.1I
Ionimt   lb"OuS               t.0   3.1    7.3  20.  22.6  08.2  5..4   63.2  62.5M  17742I.5  196.5   9".9  123.7  136.2  148.6  1XV.  1|1.?  et.?  131.7  IPS1.t ?21.2  7U7.2 '281.2  172.9  SU.1   5.7
tmiis **inl                    1.1   0.1   1.1   0.1    4.0   1.1    0.0   6.1   0.9   01   0 .1    1.    1 .0    1.1    1.6   1.1   0.0   1.1   8.7  17.3   h.'  3'.7   45.1  52.1  61.7   v.3  -B.;
bwnie st     lsdi              1.1   1.1    1.4   S.1   14.7  17.t  2t.1  32.1 111.4  110.3  18t.7  168.7  It5.1  159.1 1IU.3 221.4  213. 2  18t.E 1IDI 8   l.t  43.1   WA.  57.8  59.5  t9.8   M,?  B6.5
Pleit lentits                  i.l -26.9  -35.4  -7t.S  -n.l -If4. -3!t9 9 -463.9 417.7 -579.0 -07E.0 -641.9 -655.5 -7 9.? -WA. -6tn.3 -613.1 -491.0 -514.2 -319.0 -llS.1  114.5 -3018    ..  -t82.S  -2?.4   1 .A
*Pt             ~~~~~~~27   218    ?9    30   31    32    33    34    3r    U          37     3S     19  41-51
lamorits alrna                14.0  I1  t   17.1  10.2  IVA.4 *.5    21.t  2?.   2 .0  .25.1   25.1  215.1  215.1   25-1
*e sstwas Wro                141.1  50.4    6.7   8.7    e.7    B.7    9.7   e.7   e.7   S.7   0.7    e.7    8.7   t.7
tsits tlwr tontntg           ? t.t m.s  ??9.4 238.4  2iS9.4  ?38.4 21e.0I.4 23 S.4 238.4 23 S.* MA   MA   M 21S.   3T. 
Iw stznt Ur7or r      pqs    11,7.7  121.3    VA.  15.6  15.t  15.6  IS 115I.t  15.6  IS.E  IS.t   15.6  15.6  15.6
keedits ttpe? Vrdba          IP4.I 19f.8  1S5.6  t95.6  195.t Iff.E   Ml5.  15.6 Iff.l  19f.ti Iff.t  155.  195.6  19f.4
reetwftert Itppt tterdha      7.5   7.5    7.5   7.5    7.5   7.5    7.5   7.5   7.5    7 5   7.5   7.5    7.5    I5
trits  Ihrlstu                35.4  V.7   *0.1   42.4  41t1   0 .2   49.5  51.9  51.9  51.9  51.9  51.9  51.9  51 .9
toIrw   t t hrSOst             7.4  .7.4    7.4   7.4    7.4    7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7-J   7 4    7.4   7-4    7.4
kn tits 151@di                06.7  95.3  1th.1 11t.7  1?1.3  111.1  132.7  IU7.3  15E.t  tMt.7  17.3  182.t 191.7  t54.3
lsszate  iskat               81.8  n7.5   $1.9  u1.   41.4  t9.2   14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6   14.6
Opt1 kipnoits                171.2 113.  4n7.7 517.  539.B  5E3.3 59&.i U2.72 81?.  1t. l8  631.5  ti9.2  647.9  M4.5
__~~~~~~--  -- ====  e.         -w= ==- --==-_G ._=___--.:::=::.:=Z:
late of rtwo rn 1.4
:titch3o; 9.1leff t irporlE"|ti co;t of capiltl = VA.
eIrS'lo v.urs       sllltalso V*!Fs
polu   setpits Ib nO                   159.93              144tl.7
"cmt $&mpfits U"rn *enq#ftq            Me9tf                W115.9
nu:tl Impfie t      e Wpnareh         ?14.15                 1174.?
MI.qM  optoits trio'.#                 41.60                 51P.S
nSLIEtl Senetl  .|e       11 Wf          5.19               Vit 4
m.C  law h towrt WlA-                 -tlB.tl               .-71-9                                                                                                                                                            -4
F6[En lIDStP%  lk*  b.irda          -S9?                   -.14,,
WKlCI In     B_ rioun                 *55?                   -tl I                                                                                                                                                           *>
MrSC lopfn;t  sat -o1z                  4. C                 -4W 4*I



I t4D TA
MAIIARASHTRA IRRIUATION 11 PROJECT (Credit 954-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Imptlementation Schedule - Krishna Scheme
.          .         , ...   .....   _..      .... ..        _  _   .    .  .                        .         . 
lieu             ~~~~~ ~~~UniI    19/80  840/31        81/8?    J   82/3         851/114       81814/as all8                 MM/8       Bijklt m   ~     .l)       u
14.0          7?  1         ;'7 1         18 9        14.h           8.1                                                                 1tO
1.  KAtHE*R DAN                  S         -
* * * *~    .  *e  *  *5    * .I* *e**    *                     .   * *  *    *  .e  *  ........................ *c   c .  ** .,, *   .............. 
_.  C MeALS CXC  _.                          tSSOH) -       7 5.)  )1)0   4.1         2.3 S.s0 n.sn                                          lOll
2    CAhtALS ExEAV.              ta        48            116           60            -8                                                                                            26'
* e       .. . *. .                 ee*              e.g.....**            ** ***            ***' .            *****    * s*. ... C   ee .
t lt-lNC   tt     - *---        lU',O          _             5S33        14.'          16            1S           10                         '69
LINING                       k
-                                     5   *           *  -  29          14.5           16 *                        51                        2Y9
3.  DISIRIEItIJION NFtWORK        ha                   145                         S 877         S,9l)0                                                                          1,108
*4,665 .1      3                          A,'   '  ' ' l ' '   '18'''n'' 461S)
4.  SUR "IINORS 9  I Ft D
C*BAN tIl S.   t It t)       ha       7,'10         S 004)        t 0))))      7 ll0        7,001)       3      tlS7l 
*. *~e             c .  .e  ee          ......   .e           ..   ecs*  55 ... ..
5 a4a4        Si            , 16 0S     8,400        t aso 0         1'0 ./                                             4,140
S.  LINING DOWN tO                        1 0n0         3 o0n         * no         ?,nno 1 000                ,n10n I1)0
8 HA OU 16E1                 ha
;0         1 33 4 7l     4,620        5, 253 6l        1111      2,8110        .'%.Std                                  oo,;II  i1  '-.0Ot
20 ~ ~ 5 S               3           54             S4                                                                                4
6.  ROADS                         km       223
..C !           a * * 6 0    CC  * S.'se 'C *                  C      C     C4   . C . 36  '                  * C.                          1?7
SS.          I.I 1       30 1          14 1                                                                            1II(
7     0 S iUttORtS            X2
*C   CC CC            CC  eC  ,  * C@ C                *C  * C   *C  5CC                        C  CC*  CC....................*
'0         1)11 9(1     19 10          12 St0       1 2)t          O  '.                    5l ?5  W                   1.11
.  AGRIC  FXI. g tLA              X        131             ?779         7t ?        19.7            S1 I                                                                           101
ItitKS
*C      CCC CC             ce *-;'e   CC'55  *C  C C *  |a  *t  *                              ' CCCC*1X:
15t                      54) 10 .'s                 .of'                                      5.4
212  20          20   20 0 001()
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 oRA.eas  Xs                                                                                  101                         tt
9.~~ ~ hU It PIx 2t                                                                                                                                                      ii 
9.  ORAINAQ  %       ?rp          ?O          ?O             ?O         .1( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1311111
15                                     4             11 *1                                                                           1611             I t  L)
t. * S       C*C         *, * . ;  . . .              t . .   C  see .   *c  Cl Ce  Cc  t,.s                      .    ..  ,...l D
I.                  . .                            _                                                         I    . .            
SAt I WA I I* 1 MAA  tde NIl           ,4tII               R    
*___.___*_______*___-   SAR    't tli s,ie. aplao.e. ,4,111I)) 8j l.r- 'AR d on  uv-fveu.,
. .  . c . .   ~A( IlIAC   /II'. fis,, ..6,r.,1.  t.a'.d onoe. tisln Iirp%..



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION 1I PROJECT (Credit 954-IN)
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
Imptementation  Schedule  -  Warna  Scheme
Item               Unt,lt  79-8n      lOIA)  81'-8?         82-85    83-84       84-85      85-86    86- -8/      h1es    88-89        99-9(1    vil *I     91-92   IOtdt
9.9 _19 _ __4. '                21.S       15.1      _S.                                                                                  it_l
I . DUt                          X  **  * * *                                u  * * * * * * * *      **             *  *0  
IT         Is         11         11         12         n1        10          1.         7                                                  l00
2.  CANAtS  1tCA 9.              km     7                                ;-
t INltf, s * * **-*  * -* * * -  * * * * * ** - * * * * * * ** * * * ** * * * * ** * * ** * -*
2         6         /          9         5~~~~~~~~~00     0a        a   7  7         1          000  1 .                     6
L INIW.    k.~mC.*C**C*CCC**C .. **C*C      CC                                                                                    C    *** * *
(0.40      1. (9    31    ~      .4-5       4       6.75,      6.!.O     ?'.5       1 ./       10.?       4.0
3. DiSIRIDtiliON NI1WORK        ha
.  t,8tl)0l *1@',550    1.19J0  580      ;t,0                5I4.91 J
4. Still iqlt'lkS B F1F11.000
t HAtAti t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~53   ,(l   iona 5,50r                                                                                            S,OUD
5. LINING DOWN TO 8 HA          8.a                                                          3(( t0o1!l
OUTt t lI
l(itIll   15l0    ..(lo                                       3.0o
6. ROADS                         km27.(                                                       1.                                                                                 40.0
io        10         8.6         -. *      a         5 51      1. 0      6  T         e ; * 40.0
7. 0 9 Pi WORK                                               41.7       S1.li
* . C- *- *OO-
8. AfRi. FXIINSION AND           2
LAND btV(I01114101                                                                                                                                                             1(9(1.0  fn
,  tAilD blSltOPtHl              'S.0      411.0       75.tl                                   * *C    * **  C  e *    **  C  CO *Oe *                l
l0           .'(l       s0        49i                11n
9. DIIAINAE.i                                                                                                                                                                     U1119
Sbs.      I/ A- si . ..,    ' , *.ARE Vol. Ill  I.4. e'i(.it.1Jt $w, wl5 y Ill ,,,, )P.91
* C - * C *  t.A I9*AI



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Credit 954-IN)
PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT
Implemnentation Schedule - KOuadi Scheme
. 1(31 _ __      _n. . .  _   .. _ t_ ..  10/179  #I0/ 81  28118?       #1Z  S       81S18i4      8t4JBS 2j        / #It B16   86187         87il8t        Khl 89        89190      InIAI
tI11(tl              uni t      .5/80
1.  DAltS
2       36.1         78.4          ?7.1            3?7         4.7                                                                                          I
WIAPAJ (compt ttion)                   aa
a0 0 o0   0.0 00 0 0&0 00 0 0   0 00 00 000a0 * 
lANtlKDOOI (cooptetion)       2        11.4        30.4          ?4 6           8.#          4.8                                                                                            I tn)
I                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
00000  .....    .......  0 0 0                              000S00000I
(' 191  (neul                 1        6.2         10.8          17.9          ?7.1         11*.4        7.6                                                                              1
*-- * 4,  0* a_ *@- *--  *-v  *v0   *-- *- 0                               
2.  tANAtS                        km       17           47            18          .                                          oto 40                                                             167         VI
000 0*     0 0      0  0    0   &000     0    0     0    0    0         e       0 0 0               0    0    0     0    0    9
161
3.  JlSNf T                       ha      1786          25o0          4500           tsoo      1 000      2? tS                                                                                1,SI)1
0     0    0    0    0       000  0000000000000000I0000    00Z
* 4         4(30O          348(9    *4610   * 111)   *          . ,40 .    410A0(1 3*             1        261                       31,501
4.  SUB "ItIOR    FIELD          ha      200           200n          4sn           sson        1000no      lno0
EIIANt.S (P.1)                         a
0        0 0    0  0  0  0 0 - 0   0 *  -                                                                                   2 0  0 *  *   * .5,50
5.  LININIG DOfWN t0 8 HA        hIa     10In( )        01)0         4o1            001)        5000       $1sn93O
OUl LE I-aaaa
I              .0~~~~~~~000 00   0 a 0  0  0    0 0*a0 *00*0   0 0a00
6.  ROADS                         km       15s          40            4O            40           Z0
00000   000000   0~ ~0000000  0 a.0  00 0  0 10
2231                 44l                     10               I
/.-In.  91l1 .I9lflllI)
-           _   ;AR                      I/ lert e (t  ci t       M      Iic                                                                                                       ; .0
* * '' * * 0At $JAl                         pwt ior  as           I f jitit, i In   ;A.                                                                                            *



INDIA
MAIARASHTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT (Credit 954-IN)
PROJECT COMPLFTION REPORT
trmptementation Schedule - Upper Pe'nganga Scheme
10/79       1980-81 -    1981-82       1982-87      1983-84        4/84          10784        1985-86     1986-8t       1981-88       19)4 8  8    1989-90
tIe4flt        Unit       3/80                                                           tO 9/84       lo 3/85                                                                             IOIAL
.   SAPU  DAM              19.?          25.8         21.4           ?. I         11.1          10.4                                                                                           100
' * *9-**           9*          I     *       S          -    *     . . .  .1*  S * *    S S  S * .    S   *  - .    S  S *   S  * S   *    - ; I **  *  S& *-   *   *   * *S      *
84                                                                                    84
?.  Rf S LB CANAL    t  * * * * * * *  * * * * *                                                                                                        t4                                            64
48t04        5;0           583)0                                                                                         161no
5.  LtISNEt             ha                                                         .             ......    *       .        - - -   I I 0  * -  1 * -  -
7000-        18?fO                        1SIIU         5:nn                                               0600n         c
4.  SUb MINORS I        ha                                 18tl          %w            W(M          lZtlO                                                                                         l0WO
fIfEt  CHANNEL                                                   * *   . . * * -    . *   * .    * *I       .  -  * .   * .    - - .    *  
(PART I II18                                                                     3186            _           2765          91,6          1798(                                              11405
Wll0         150o          IflO nnm                                                                                                     Sll?O
S.  LINING DOWN TO   ha                                           _                   2O            1190                 * . .   * .  l         8                                                  5
8 NA OUTLET                                                                       ?05ri        *11tJ                        1(431          8)0                                                 5(lto
20            33           33            33                                                                                                          119
6.  ROADs               km
1565                                                                                                                                          10f)
7.  OI                                                                                                                                                  ***
8.  AGRICULtURAL                             2 7.SO        3 7.50          S                                                                                                                         on
EIIIENS10ON 9       2
LAND DEVELOP`    .X. . 64. 2. 2                                                                                 5              ;      * .    .    .                                             100
9.  ORAINAGE            2
*     * *      * *    ;S     *  . * . . * * . * * *          .*     . *   .5   * * Stt                                                      '.
Itl. P1II1  AtEIl              47           *       7  1  .. .A                      1   41         1.1441                                                                                          11)
tan^(.4 tAt ttr 2 _ JA. _ 1   T  - , . . * 5 t A I -  .--
@,,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S....11 ,t',,,1 ,.  1/', 
__ _ _ _ _ _ _     .4.'I                i.)   '....I  v, 1..^       -    ,.,,, ,,,,,, I  1,,I,  ...................



;                                            -,                     -  tF t                                  \         -           j
r~~ 2                                                          -      -   ee  -   : -          _      =           2
_ -                     _        a          -                              -        _          _   0 t
_   - _        =2                                             -e> za _          
-          .                      ,- _                             -    _       .    .-
*           ''         -         '                       2 r                      
_*                           -                         _                                                        
_*                           .                                a             -
* ~~~ a                                         2                                    
.,~~~~~~~ b                                                                                                                     _3= 
*                          *          -               >  
*   | -  * | R                                 1-                |   -   N      |             --  1  ~~~        ~     ~~*  *  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   ~        ~~~~~~~ P -  - _-  < r 
w x   S            F     ._          S           D           _    ,,   s          s   ,-*                  w    _      _      I    _  _ S  S 
- * _   .rv    2               <          _      ^                      ~                                 :_   -.* --.  2
g                     - * N          >@   ~~~~~~~  ~~ f   -  9 
-  s   .- 5       -s            *           *                      o   o          *   @ .  -.                *               o,      -b
- '   0          0           *           *                       0  ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~*  *    *                  _    -X 
_   ~~            ., *                                                                                  * *  -       - * * ~ *Jx                _         X
.    .           *           *                      .   .          .   *~P                 *                  _  
*    *           *           *          *           *   *~~~~~.    *5.                     *.                 3
'   ^-   a *       r          _*  =-         a* ~~2                       5-                 - 
-   , *          O          c           O          :;           w  .           *   v                   .            X              _*  S  L
*                                   s           *               **                                *   *                                     r    -
.~~ ~ ~~~                            ~     ~~~~~                                               ~         ~~~~~ _  S *  _   _~  _  ,. 
.-~~~~~ r-                                                                                               -.-    -        >         02
_~~~~~~~~~ -. =*                                                              _                            *      *              _        -
*~ ~~~~~~                         ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    5
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~, *- *  -* 
*~   .1.                                                                     * S                                               
- ~   ~        ~       ~       * _:                                                                                       -            , _-*
:s     .                                      *. *4                 _.    -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- **                                                                                             -   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C..
>~~~ ~ v                                                         **. :.                                               ^
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ - *                                         .' 
. _ _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0
*   r.      *-.                                            *-           ,5  _*    ~ S  -~.e                                - . ss_=x
2.                  s          *            L                      5          .   _ 



- 58 -
ATTACHMENT I
BORROWER'S COMENTS             Pag,e 1 of 5
FROM WORLDBANK WASHINGTON  a  d  (ocit.       SS    t 13Q34 )8Si  JO8
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gt
40 NW
mm1au"d 1Ww mmomsw
d-mou Aftf  NSa
Dt4rysqfft"/mwasm 2?tb DIeMCs*   8$
Dea Hz. fltta, 
zmloesd bervitb a"e O;
omeus   tan      raft Mo     the
Kabsrasbtrm ZrrigatioauI   ProZec
din Omit 9*I w. wea   b
Mt*t       y5   eoould faX tb*8 t
Kr. Ore      a Doftsen of tbh  09atiRoUn I
If  atn DOPertst so that tb
w are   acted appropriately it the
Q J. Jolu
4wiOiaLtare DiVision,
War IA0              'tt m      1
!me     Bas 50S   Dmlabi5
t e.  'Xt *  '1 
4IsmAmas.eP1



-59-                    ATTACHMENT I
Page 2 of 5
FROMl WORLDBANK WRSHIN6TON                          IW a  N3i-3H1 n1S'i4Lv6woutj
?m4.t 9_4etio,a  ,poat a Keharmbt:a hwwhqation zr
(PaCe 7,' O0 VeW
me projeot mats ha     ealatedi ewOm rably
mine "praival laxy*ly bv|d*st of' a Sbtt  ro. In the
saft of MaterIals .0* laboUr.' Thel Cost over VtUn 4PPeer
even lawe beasa  the mpzsisal poe.w mrx un4e
us_tima. hs p&Vjest bVi XaM"        u hag lkZe
iauy hsea"e of the unbilty of the State  Qfftumnt
to pxviG  biao*aw  sopet &O bb GIves on of
.iS01=046 to 0et amer   7 Vm&4 206eaItate4 dby AatuZW
a        hbe st"ae  hi@ievro. de" it oeres that it
ts4udAm  the d@awv' of a uth  o ZMA ptsbion to
eoglft  ee the oaio wVlui m    walin  ant pLew1e
to be goulted In saeemdow* wt* the avsrfll  v'u3.o
_mt PrAwLtIm of, the State*
(ft 11 a 3120 OVINIS    I
(legAsa ii|u & 2, oeu14
Ike itrigtiast aputm to ,~ahazeOhttu is. Aso
Gdaig. eSW  osultmteG that a             rceive  Me
bate of waeter asooi    to the      n coppag
Intewity is *a&  Notation. co,ns:it.    a  m
the legmerIn ia memm0 wish to receive itrigation,
on  (Vsaban&t .yst e      be wp  teG to oerate
*   Otsoiell     Ns~wr  is pratos  all the Lemg
La te comma d   t MOd ArriWtton Waters In a given
sease. got a veriaty Go weam*.   T he itate Govrmnt is
so thoe view tht La al& sLtuatio   it wuld not be
pm4ea to relealse Gishar  thtdaMI. s  ocauwis



- 60 -                  ATTACHMENT I
Page 3 of 5
..9RJjWRLD9ANK WQSbINGTON     I d  * WJaj.2Sf'Ag2M9    IH1I9Q1 N HIMIN .'w0odJ
.,*      ,      a  114o.*s pag loenae ao th  are  (t  don.
uadw WauaM  ; QOta* and thai Vt*   ,PIT of the  14
Lw.iqStio wafte wet awossarly -be demand baseds
*   Aaoeaualo, it has tsia  to bleni the tw -orte"
00    to make ptifLh  w of Ohhe irrigation water.
(pare 35 @YeszYeV)
she asesent An the VCR that the systm
cannot "slive  CZp water nees *Q: mor than 50%
of the oomumd'at  in Khaif 'ev en hLa had.t    h areas
"MRS VtXWitUto.  MO design og! anal capsaities in
most of the pg@jeato to thw state ls govened by peak
require.mmts Li one rotatSo4 In Rt4bi maSon. *solUte
inStamopuoty based upoan  axim wevae foctrAghtly
tequiteft Og 30 years tin.miL eylto O.astemtd to be
0*.0  Us. per secondPer  ha. La x41fhn psojeat whereas
the  ML apaity prnvtGs4 to 0*6 Ltas pit sesad
per ha. mozeo"ve as the uib-proi0fot, an yet to be
oWl3eted. water 0alloblity and' eritemeft cannot be
determLoed ansrntoly. St to the fe     . diffialt to
age with the  shXatlc aseosme4 of the VCR thaLt
the system  p4oitj Lo indequate
.    ,         V
fte State 40f*tsat Ls of the viw that Lng
iLs high toost..tation and the retrurs d  aft aways
justi*  iestmts   nt msiwp    otv  UnIn
especially of the moe vutlSrablei stLo , a t
least oste option. Mosover. llinL; of all cmnas
' Ias t a umuid besings Aedk     uetepro >m
lin eduoaiu   also hIns graad yate sohaoge - a
it.tw that .shouLd net be igmeedl IS desgnin  canaJl
eya . GOf is threO,of eth  TIe  that the



- 61 -                   ATTACHMENT I
Page 4 of 5
FROM UORLDRANK UQSNINGTON  2                                   ) (T WM Wo
An  ag   rdtags Us     a           se      e liU  g at
. -~
,%e stt aoog          has adopted aha)k sis to
be that unit bi agd.iOvWable 05t11d xa wheat
Iv    toMo4d can b  LaMUL d by a stream  lse of
SO Ztg.  eot e.oom  fLS; for t   days depn-1mg an the
design seasonl c*@pplug 1466bi.t?. This to aefuistnt
With tm  trequIemnts at a g,tatmlo Wat6t  APPlY sytem
o SolovUWd In t;h state. Iss0d on ith4se 0nsidzrattonhD
te mhxuia ais of 20 ha. has been;a4dpted.  rapeoiung
on the togsphy at the a ee and si*s of ho.dings.
the ebalk also can be Xmwa  then this.
* o   does sbot agfe that thel M.aWAld bs
olv    " Mre loely it plt^ ng. d'esign opration
and Emagint of lift LIgation ftom tesetvoirs and
mtai oanl.. TM stttl's poliy U  to leve this to
the pivate ettort based oan lndvl l *eq4Lremsmt6.
1. 
ascosue @1 the ooupwe  nature of oontcuctLon
wok lrolv"d in canal 3U1.mg the! irrigation engineers
of the Mts ftaod tLt9euatLes mi "rsondios to
ehetmmiNgs In the Initial staes1. The situ&tion, was
however qUIclkl.y xee"dd. While Ol  agrees that works
La mm stray cases e"at otadift*nnt pda&ltty, It
d1S6VVWe   with the 9easali10atio  in the  epott 
mm"tm.wtoa quality standards waie not enfored.
%pincs 6.,4 PM ad ipate 21  22, O,szview)
As Vt0d  cut in PM  3 460oe  staIe the
*nbopsojects aneoW@   partially  Q,lftods Lt is



- 62 -                     ATTACHMENT I
Page 5 of 5
FROM WORLDBANK WASHINGTON    e  d  (XW..2Ce QWe))    tH-13D3f-P4 >adj"9
dems,.Imi  at this uni. thast it i. p0m.d. O.1s
the Paso*t bSUts In inmnte topus A Xoe
t.aliutiA psttx* tMd4  :tge  att.t the p*jW    an
a~IeteG e Atc4stion bmus*It. begin to be ftallse6
I trw*a Wsu wa X W 1sseX~~~~~



