Document of                 FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFIICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2624-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
September 26, 1979
I  This docment bas a reted diddibuton ad may be usd by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutles. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 20, 1979)
US$1.00      =  Rs 8.26
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.1210
Rs 1,000,000 = US$121,042
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed
against a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies
are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal
Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, which represents
the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AU      -    Agricultural University
CADA    -    Command Area Development Authority
GOI     -    Government of India
GOM     -    Government of Maharashtra
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IFAD    -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           State of Maharashtra.
Amount:                US$210 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       As part of Central Assistance to States for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project
Descriptiorn:        The proposed project would support the introduction of
improved irrigation technologies in Maharashtra. Spe-
cifically, it would help finance a substantial portion
of the surface irrigation development program of the
State, i.e., the construction within five years of five
major surface irrigation schemes and the rehabilitation
of two existing schemes. The project would include
construction elements for dams, main, branch and distri-
bution canals, drains, and new and improved link roads
in the command areas of the Krishna, Kukadi, Upper
Wardha, Upper Penganga and Warna irrigation schemes.
Existing canals and drains in the commands of the Girna
and Mula schemes would be modernized. The project would
further expand the Government of Maharashtra's (GOM's)
pilot water management program and provide assistance
for a training program for land development and water
management specialists. The project is designed to
increase agricultural production and the standard of
living of the farmers in Maharashtra. The risks under
the proposed project are those normally associated with
irrigation projects in India.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                  (US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Dams and Major Canals               144.1   41.8    185.9
Distribution Canals
and Drainage                       19.2    3.1      22.3
Roads                                11.8    2.1       13.9
Equipment and Buildings               2.9    0.7        3.6
Training, Research, Monitoring        4.8    0.6        5.4
Land Acquisition                     36.1      -       36.1
Modernization (Girna & Mula)          7.3    1.3        8.6
Engineering and Administration    43.9         -       43.9
Base Cost                     270.1   49.6    319.7
Physical Contingencies               40.6    7.1       47.7
Expected Price Increases             69.6   14.0       83.6
Total Project Cost                  380.3   70.7    451.0
Financing Plan:                                                  (US$ million)
Local Foreign Total
IDA Credit                          139.3   70.7    210.0
Local Financing (GOM)               241.0    -        241.0
380.3   70.7    451.0
Estimated                                              (US$ million)
Disbursements:                      FY80   FY81   FY82    FY83    FY84   FY85
Annual         5.0   31.0   48.0    66.0    48.0   12.0
Cumulative    5.0   36.0   84.0   150.0   198.0  210.0
Rate of Return:         16%
Appraisal Report:       No. 2529a-IN dated September 13, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE SECOND MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$210 million on standard
IDA terms tD help finance a Five-year time slice of construction work on irri-
gation and drainage infrastructure for five major surface irrigation schemes,
modernization of two existing major schemes, expansion of a pilot water man-
agement program and implementation of a training program for land development
and water management specialists, all in Maharashtra. GOI would channel the
proceeds of the credit to GOM in accordance with GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for financing State development projects. The exchange risk
would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.         India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the larLd base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now.  The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.         Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period.  Slow growth in agriculture acted as  a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.  Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and 1]I of the President's Report for the Third ARDC Project (Report
No. P-2605-IN), dated June 28, 1979.



-2-
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings,. India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, upward
adjustment of depressed agriculture prices and world inflation have lead to
significant increases in prices during the first half of 1979. The wholesale
price index increased by 16% between mid February and September. Together,
food, food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils contributed over two-
thirds of this increase. However, prices of almost all commodities have
moved up significantly during the first months of 1979/80. Although in part
reflecting a seasonal rise in food and food products, the trends observed do



-3 -
indicate a distinct departure from the relative price stability of the past
four years. The inflationary trend is likely to continue during the second
half of 1979/80, although at a slower rate, given the July 1979 price in-
creases in oil, steel and coal and continuing world inflation. Although the
current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-term growth
prospects, given available aggregate resources and production capacity, sig-
nificant improvements are likely to be required in the organization of key
sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.         The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. However, prospects for sustaining the record
crop levels of the past two years in 1979/80 does not look good. The onset
of the monscon was delayed this year and subsequent rainfall has been defi-
cient throughout much of the country. Early indicators are that jute, rice
and sugar caLne output have already been adversely affected. Continuing
power cutbacks and recent shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are
also likely to contribute to the shortfall.
9.         The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the outptut of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables.  Production would have been
still higher but for recurrirLg shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petrole,um products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cults and curbs on new demand. During the first
quarter of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to
retard overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement,
sugar, cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels.
Strong demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as
fertilizers and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these
can counterbalance the constrained sectors.
10.        The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth



-4-
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter of
1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year. How-
ever, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is
likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates.
As a result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of
reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports
covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant



- 5 -
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sectiLons of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather thasn the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fal:Len to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will raise
yields as it takes hold gradually across India. Finally, there are several
heartening trends in foodgrain production: one is the steady growth of area
planted to high-yielding varieties of rice; another is the growing adoption
of summer rice cultivation in the traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab
and Haryana). These two trends along with the other favorable developments
have caused rice production to rise impressively in the last two years.
Another good. omen for foodgrain production is the rapid growth of winter
wheat cropping in traditional rice areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rat:e of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years---will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.  Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for



-6-
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 19708 by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the



-7 -
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP.  Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efificiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       IrL addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-thi.rd of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for aLlleviating their poverty by providing these
families wil:h more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless
families and families owning less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 117 development
credits to India totalling US$2,530 million and US$7,235 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,002 million had been
repaid, and US$3,168 million was still undisbursed as of July 31, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of July 31, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 17 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of August 31, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment



and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expendlitures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchan,ge component tends to be small in most projects.
This is part:icularly the case! in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       A:Lthough the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA.  However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains; small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. Tae ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
July 31, 1979, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$1,557
million, of which US$658 mil:Lion remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$899 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. An March 31, 1978, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$18.7 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 34%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
26.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value added and
accounts for a major share of exports. Investments in agriculture have been
given priority by GOI and the State Governments, especially since the mid-
1960s, and deserve continuecd emphasis in the future.
27.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974.  At the same time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and three consecutive favorable



- 10 -
monsoon seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 resulted in bumper crops in these
years. Other foodgrain crops have not enjoyed anything like the same success
as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high yielding
seeds adapted to local conditions. The effects of the green revolution have
been concentrated in northwestern India. In 1979, the late on-set of this
year's southwest monsoon has caused considerable concern. Rainfall has been
deficient in many parts of the country, which as a whole has experienced a
renewed dry spell since mid-August. Severe drought conditions are reported in
49 out of the 56 districts in Uttar Pradesh as well as in areas of Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Eastern Rajasthan.
Shortages in electrical power and diesel fuel required to run irrigation pumps
have aggravated the situation. In the absence of good September rains, summer
foodgrain production in 1979/80 will likely fall short of 1978/79 summer
production levels (85 million tons) by at least 10 million tons. The total
shortfall for the year may even be higher, as the winter crop (35-40% of total
production) may be adversely affected by a low level of residual soil, moisture
and stored irrigation water and continuing shortages of diesel and power for
irrigation pumps.
28.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence is the expansion of irrigation and the
extent to which more effective use can be made of the existing investment in
irrigation facilities.  The Government is also placing emphasis on the
improved supply of inputs, such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural
credit, and extension services.
Irrigation
29.       Up to 1964/65, the irrigated area in India increased at a rate of
only 2.1% per year, of which about two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the total irrigated area is approximately 50 million ha, of which
about three-fifths is irrigated from surface sources and two-fifths from
groundwater.
30.       The pace of surface water development remained roughly constant at
about 0.5 million ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). During this period, actual increases in the surface irrigated area
lagged behind GOI's physical plan targets for more rapid development. A major
problem was the continuing tendency of the States to start a large number of
projects, which, given the limited financial resources, could only be con-
structed slowly so that benefits accrued with much delay. However, in recent
years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and the authorities have in-
creased their efforts to complete on-going projects. As a result, the new
area brought under command in 1976/77 was 1.1 million ha or about twice that
achieved in any single year before the start of the Fifth Plan in 1974/75.
However, while the increase in area brought under the command of new surface
irrigation projects is impressive, the increase in area actually irrigated
has been more modest than the figures imply, particularly in the case of



- 11 -
major and medium irrigation schemes, due to incomplete distribution and
inadequate drainage systems. In areas actually receiving water, irrigation
efficiencies remain low and water supply is unreliable.
31.       This Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agri,-ulture, which reported in 1976, also found that the underutili-
zation of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training, lack of
effective extension services and poor administrative coordination. It has
been estimated that the major-Lty of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments up to US$600 per ha to make them fully pro-
ductive. Accordingly, GOI and the State Governments have adopted various
measures to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on selected high priority projects. Such measures for command area devel-
opment (CAD) include public investment in irrigation-associated infrastruc-
ture - such as drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension and research -
and private investments, mainly at the farm level - such as land shaping and
leveling, watercourse lining, field channels and drains.
32.       In view of the emergence of high productivity farm technologies
dependent on effective water control - and given India's already substantial
investment in surface irrigation - the economic return on investment that
improves water delivery or fa,cilitates better use of the water provided, can
be very high. Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation
infrastructure as well as command area development are being given high
priority by GOI, and a relatively large proportion of public sector invest-
ment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allocations
have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commercial banks
participating in financing comnmand area development programs through farm
credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been introduced affect-
ing the coordination of services in command areas and the administration of
credit.
33.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where
relatively small incremental investments are required. Thus, modernization
of existing irrigation infrastructure and development of groundwater are
also given high priority, and new projects are being designed, implemented
and operated, on the basis of improved irrigation technologies.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Maharashtra
34.       Maharashtra, with an area of 308,000 square kilometers and a popu-
lation of about 60 million, is one of the largest states in India. Some 70%
of the population is classified as rural and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. One-third of those dependent on agriculture are landless laborers
and their families. About 59% of the State is cultivated and there is little
scope for increasing the net sown area. Jowar, rice, wheat, maize, bajra and
pulses are the principal food crops. Important cash crops are cotton, oil-



- 12 -
seeds, sugarcane, groundnuts and tobacco. Only about 8% of the total cropped
area is under irrigation. The rest depends upon rainfall, which ranges from
4,000 mm annually west of the coastal mountain range to only 600 mm in the
rainshadow east of the range. Six districts, covering about one-quarter of
the State area, are classified as "drought-affected."
35.       Because of the limited rainfall over much of the area, an extensive --
rather than intensive--system of agriculture has developed. Farms are 4.3 ha
on average or about twice as large as the national average, with wide varia-
tions, however, from district to district. Cropping intensity is only 107%,
in contrast with 122% for the country as a whole. Crop yields per hectare are
extremely low, for some crops among the lowest in India, and the State is
deficient in foodgrains. According to the 1970 census, 92% of holdings are
farmer-owned, 5% are partly owned and partly rented and 3% are wholly rented.
Even in a normal year, about 50% of the rural population has incomes below the
poverty line (US$75). The rate of agricultural growth, which had been sluggish
(0.7% p.a.) since the early 1960s, has improved in recent years, following a
succession of favorable monsoons, and in response to GOM's development programs.
In particular, high yielding varieties of kharif sorghum, paddy and wheat have
gained wide acceptance. Other dynamic aspects of recent agricultural perfor-
mance have included the growth of irrigated sugarcane and horticultural crops
and the rapid increase in fertilizer use. From 1960/61 to 1977/78, fertilizer
consumption increased from 29,000 tons of nutrients to 360,000 tons. Over
half of the fertilizer is used in irrigated zones.
36.       Irrigation development in Maharashtra, except for some tanks and
minor canal systems, began to gain momentum only since the mid-1950s with the
initiation of the First Plan. Since then, Maharashtra has invested heavily in
major and medium irrigation projects--among them the IDA-assisted Purna and
Jayakwadi projects (see para 39 below). Even larger investments will be
required in the future, not only to exploit the availabile potential, but also
to make more effective use of existing investments. Out of a cultivated area
of 18.3 million ha, only 2.3 million ha are now irrigated (of which 1.2
million ha from wells), compared to an estimated irrigation potential of 6.3
million ha or, assuming improvements in irrigation efficiencies, ultimately of
8.9 million ha (of which 2.7 million ha from wells). Necessary improvements
to increase irrigation efficiencies imply extensive canal lining, distribution
systems reaching closer to the farmgates, improved operation of conveyance
systems and systematic introduction of rotational water supply to provide
equitable access to water for farmers in the command.
37.       Groundwater resources are significant, but easy opportunities for
well development have already been tapped. At independence, some 0.5 million
ha was irrigated from wells. During the 1950s, groundwater development in-
creased rapidly (4.2% p.a.) through sinking of new wells. During the 1960s
and early 1970s, the area irrigated from wells further increased with the
replacement of traditional lift methods by electrical and diesel pumps. In-
dividual and cooperative river lift irrigation schemes have also spread.
These investments, largely managed in the private sector, have been a major
engine of agricultural growth in the State.



- 13 -
38.       Over the last three decades, GOM has invested the equivalent of
US$1.3 billion in major and medium surface irrigation schemes, adding 870,000
ha to the irrigation potential of the State. This works out at US$1,490 per
ha, a reasonable level by international comparison, but 40% higher than the
all-India average (US$860). Seasonality of river flows, lack of major storage
possibilitiEs, difficult soil conditions and the policy of spreading the bene-
fits of irrigation over wide areas help explain the relatively high costs.
Returns on this capital could be substantially enhanced by correcting defi-
ciencies in planning, design and construction standards and operational
procedures. This is a major objective of the proposed project.
39.       The Bank group has been directly involved in agricultural develop-
ment in Maharashtra through four previous IDA credits. The first credit
(Cr. 23-IN), US$13 million, for the original Purna Irrigation Project, was
approved in July 1962. This project, which was completed in 1968, provided
the main infrastructure for irrigating the 60,000 ha left bank area of the
Purna River valley. It included two dams and reservoirs, a 45 km long, fully
lined main canal and 723 km cf distributaries. It also included a small
hydro-electric power plant, to be operated only when water availability
exceeded irrigation requirements. The project was carried out to the design
standards of" the time, with Ea lightly irrigated cropping pattern and with low
cost as the main objective. To bring it into line with more modern design
standards, part of the infrastructure needed rehabilitation and modernization.
Assistance for such rehabilit.ation was included in the (First) Maharashtra
Irrigation Project (US$70 million credit of October 11, 1977, Cr. 736-IN).
Other objectives of the project were to complete on-going construction of
irrigation infrastructure in the Jayakwadi Irrigation System on the upper
Godavari river and to provide command area development (land shaping, roads,
extension services) in the Jayakwadi area. After initial delays in connection
with some of the major contracts, the Maharashtra Irrigation Project is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Through the Maharashtra Agricultural Credit
Project, for which a US$30 million IDA credit was approved in February 1972
(Cr. 293-IN) and was fully disbursed by June 1976, funds were made available
for refinancing loans to fanners in Maharashtra for minor irrigation, land
development and land reclamation. The Drought Prone Areas Project, for which
IDA provided a US$35 million credit in January 1975 (Cr. 526-IN), includes two
districts in Maharashtra. It consists of an integrated set of actions and
investments designed to improve agriculture in dry areas under rainfed condi-
tions. This project is proceeding satisfactorily, although it suffered
some delay because of an inadequate provision of technical staff.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
40.       The proposed project supports GOI's efforts for a new irrigation
development: strategy (below) in one of India's major states. Maharashtra was
chosen for this end because of the State's strong administration, sound



- 14 -
financial position and the fact that, given the priority of the subsector, as
much as one-quarter of the State's planned expenditure for the next five years
will be devoted to irrigation development. The six schemes covered by the
proposed project, together with the concurrent IFAD-financed Bhima project
(see paragraph 42), make a substantial contribution to Maharashtra's irrigation
development program for the next five years. For the proposed project, GOM
would introduce new improved planning, design, construction and operational
criteria, which are expected to be adopted by GOM for the State's irrigation
sector as a whole. The technical and organizational improvements to be
introduced under the project are based on a detailed assessment of Maharashtra's
irrigation development experience. Further improvements may be required at a
later stage, since some of the schemes that comprise the project will be
completed only in the late 1980s and not reach full production until the turn
of the century. Under the project, therefore, GOM would set up a monitoring
and evaluation organization, which will continuously review the planning and
design parameters. The essential feedback information for planning the
subsequent stages of development will be gained from the evaluation of the
progress and performance of each scheme and from the experimental and research
programs incorporated in the proposed project.
41.       The project was prepared by GOM assisted by local consultants
(Water and Power Consultants, WAPCOS), with substantial assistance by Bank
staff. It was appraised in June 1979. A supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached as Annex III. A report in two volumes entitled "India - Staff
Appraisal of the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project," and "Maharashtra
Irrigation II Project - Sectoral Background," Report No. 2529a-IN, dated
September 13, 1979 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in July/August 1979. The Borrower and
GOM were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S.C. Jain, Director,
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
42.       The proposed project would assist the continuing construction of
five major irrigation schemes in Maharashtra (Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Wardha,
Upper Penganga, and Warna) during the five year period starting from October
1979 through September 1984 together with the partial modernization of the
existing Girna and Mula schemes. Together with the Bhima scheme to be
financed through a US$50 million parallel credit from IFAD, the project would
bring some 147,000 ha of land under irrigation. The total area commanded by
the six new schemes would ultimately comprise about 620,000 ha. Planning,
design, construction and operation of the schemes would be in accordance with
agreed criteria (Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement). A flexible approach
to planning and design would be employed, whereby experience of the innova-
tions introduced at the start of the implementation period would be evaluated
by the end of 1983, when, if needed, appropriate modifications for the suc-
ceeding implementation cycle would be introduced.
43.       The proposed project would include construction work on 11 dams;
construction of about 900 km of main and branch canals; construction of
distribution systems and drains; and construction or modernization of about
620 km of link roads. After the end of the five-year slice covered by the
project, GOM would complete all schemes as soon as technically and financially



- 15 -
feasible (Section 3.11 of the Project Agreement). The dams will raise river
levels to a sufficient height to divert water into the main irrigation canals
and store surplus monsoon inflows during July through September for release
during the winter and hot weather seasons. The dams are comprised of:
earth-fill embankments w-:th c:Lay cores to impermeable bedrock; and masonry anc'
mass concrete overflow spillway sections. They will be provided with drainage
galleries and radial sector stLeelgates. GOM has established a special inde-
pendent panel of experts to ensure that ongoing and future dam engineering and
construction conform to good engineering practices with special reference to
dam safety. Some 280 village.p would be submerged by the project reservoirs
and their present population of about 16,000 farm families would be resettled
under the project. The affected people receive agricultural land in the
project area, which GOM has acquired or appropriated as surplus under the Land
Ceiling Act. New village sites are fixed in consultation with the displaced
families, and include amenities such as water and power supply, roads, school
and community buildings.
44.       Canals would be fully lined.  Main and branch canals usually follow
principal contour lines and distributaries are located on the cross ridges.
Under the proposed project, major changes would be introduced in the existing
design stancards. Distribution canals would be sized for rotational water
supply. Corncrete technology and earthwork compaction would be upgraded, and
alternative types of canal lining would be tested. The size of the chaks 1/
would be rectuced from the present 40 ha to about 8 ha, and all canals down to
the chak out:lets would be lined. Additional control and dewatering structures
would also be provided, and intermediate storage reservoirs would be located
and tested. On behalf of the farmers, irrigation channels within the chak
would be corupleted by the Government. Drainage would also be tackled system-
atically. Canal and dam foundation excavation, canal and road embankment
construction, and elements of land shaping would primarily be implemented
by labor intensive methods. At least one quarter of the required labor force
would be generated by GOM's Employment Guarantee Scheme, and the balance
would be mobilized by contractors. The Irrigation Department's heavy earth-
moving machinery would assist: manual labor selectively where required.
Concrete work would be carried out by contract.
45.       Link roads included in the project would be all-weather roads.
They would generally be constructed in each distributary canal block at least
one year prior to canal construction. Planning criteria for the roads pro-
vide that all parts of the irrigated areas would be brought within about 3
km of an all-weather road. Whenever appropriate, existing road alignments
would be used. As far as possible, village centers would be bypassed to
avoid congestion. All roads would be constructed in water-bound macadam with
murrum hard shoulders. Main roads leading to market centers would in addition
have black top surfacing.
46.       Under the proposed project, the existing Girna and Mula irrigation
schemes would be modernized and upgraded. At Girna, a part of the Jamda
Left Bank Canal and Lower Girna Canal command area would be modified and
1/   A chak is the irrigation service area below the Government outlet.



- 16 -
rehabilitated to standards as far as possible consistent with those proposed
for the new irrigation schemes. At Mula, the emphasis would be on improved
operation and maintenance (O&M) procedures with the minimal rehabilitation
works necessary to bring the scheme to a sound operational level. Both
schemes would be provided with equipment and vehicles, radio communica-
tion facilities, and buildings, offices and stores essential for O&M.
Project Implementation
47.       Planning, survey, design and construction supervision for the
dams, the canal networks down to the chak outlets and the main drainage
system would be the responsibility of the GOM Irrigation Department, which
would be strengthened under the project. The existing Central Design Organ-
ization, whose responsibility includes design of dams and major civil engi-
neering structures, would be supplemented by an additional design unit for
planning the layout of the canal system. A special unit would be set up for
land drainage design. A Quality Control Unit would be established in each
Chief Engineer's office, and a senior officer of the Irrigation Department
would be charged with responsibility for upgrading construction practices
(Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement). The Irrigation Department would
further participate in the minor distribution canal planning and design unit
in each Command Area Development Authority (CADA) (para 49 below) and the
project monitoring unit (para 51 below). A training program, included in the
project (para 50 below), would produce in about two years the necessary expert
personnel to complete manning of these posts.
48.       The Agricultural Department of GOM is responsible for overall
agricultural development planning. The Public Works and Housing Department
would survey, plan, design, supervise construction and maintain the com-
mand area roads in close consultation with the Chief Engineer and the CADA
Administrator of each irrigation scheme. Two Command Area Road Circles
would be created to be engaged exclusively in command area works.
49.       Since 1972, GOM has entrusted major irrigation development and
management (following completion of construction by the Irrigation Department)
to its Command Area Development organization. This comprises a special wing
of the Irrigation Department, structured around a Cabinet level committee at
the State level, and a Regional Board and a Command Area Development Authority
(CADA) for each major irrigation development. Each CADA is headed by an
Administrator who, through an Executive Committee, coordinates the GOM agencies
participating in crop planning and water allocation, operation and maintenance
of the canal network and maintenance of command area roads, farm support
services such as extension and input supplies, and on-farm development. Under
the project, GOM would upgrade CADA's functions, responsibilities and expertise
to ensure that the performance of the irrigation schemes is improved. In
particular, it would strengthen the existing CADAs at Krishna and Girna and
establish new CADAs for the remaining schemes included in the project at least
twelve months prior to the first water deliveries. Further steps to strengthen
the CADA organization include the establishment, in each CADA, of a pioneer
water management unit on the pattern adopted for the Jayakwadi pilot project
and the organization of a central monitoring unit in the office of the Commis-
sioner CAD (para 51 below).



- 17 -
50.       An important finding of the review of Maharashtra's irrigation
sector, made by the Association as part of project appraisal, is that the
effectiveness of water utilization depends on the adequate development of
each minor canal command area (below the outlets) and on good canal system
management. Personnel with the necessary specialized skills in water manage-
ment and land development are scarce. GOM would, under the project, start
appropriate training in these subjects. GOM would train irrigation specialists
within the CAD organization, who would gradually take over management of all
public sector major and medium irrigation projects in the State. As a first
step in this long-term program, GOM would commence, under the proposed project,
a vocationally-oriented, single-streamed, training program in water management
and development of land for irrigated agriculture. The program would comprise
courses of duration varying from 6 to 9 months for personnel in the Irriga-
tion Department, with university degrees and diplomas in civil engineering
or agronomy or agriculture engineering. New entrants would be absorbed into
the CAD organization for their entire professional career and in-service
candidates would be required to serve a minimum of three years in a CADA
following completion of the course. In addition, GOM would gradually provide
technical upgrading courses for agricultural and irrigation field assistants
of the two departments engaged in irrigation management and land development.
The project: would assist the establishment of a new training institute to be
located at Aurangabad in the heart of Maharashtra's irrigated region and
would provide residential and training accommodation, equipment, incremental
staff salaries and training allowances, consultant services and, to a limited
extent, overseas training for the institute's staff. Under this program
210 new entrants, 245 junior engineers (ID) and 245 soil conservation sub-
divisional officers (LDA/AD) would be trained by 1984. GOM would establish
within the CAD organization a cadre of land development and water management
specialists and fill the established posts in the cadre as each distributary
block is commissioned and as and when staff trained under the training program
becomes available, and it would commence the training program for land develop-
ment and water management specialists acceptable to IDA by October 1, 1980
(Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). In addition, the research program,
commenced in 1978 in the Jayakwadi command area, to identify appropriate
conveyance technologies for the minor water distribution system and to
evaluate the costs and benefits of improved water use measures would be
intensified under the proje,ct and extended to the areas of the five new
project schemes and Bhima.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
51.       By January 1, 1980 GOM would establish a monitoring and evaluatior
unit under the leadership of a senior officer in the office of the Commis-
sioner, CAD, to implement a detailed project monitoring and evaluation program
developed by GOM (Section 3.09 of the Project Agreement). Facilities, equio-
ment, vehicles and incremental staff salaries for the monitoring and evalua--
tion unit would be provided under the proposed project.
Farm Support Services
52.       Agricultural Research is the responsibility of the four Agricultu-al
Universities (AU) in the State. The Rahuri AU covers the Krishna, Kukadi,
Warna, Mula and Girna schemes, the Parbhani AU the Upper Penganga scheme, as,d



- 18 -
the Akola AU the Upper Wardha scheme. In general, the basic research needs
of the project are well covered. The AUs have both undergraduate and post-
graduate schools and also operate extension agents (Gram Sevak) training
centers. A considerable number of research stations are operated by each of
the Universities, including stations for wheat, sugarcane, oilseeds and
potatoes in Western Maharashtra; sorghum, pearl millet, cotton, sugarcane,
pulses and oilseeds in the Marathwada region, and cotton and citrus research
stations in the Vidarba region. There is, however, a need for adaptive or
developmental research to be carried out within the irrigation areas. Under
the project GOM would set up an irrigation research and development center
initially in the Kukadi irrigation scheme area under the Ruhuri AU. This
center would have facilities for research, demonstrations, training and
extension education.
53.       Agricultural extension is normally provided through local government
channels and the Zilla Parishad which have their own Agriculture Departments
and extension workers. At the village level, the extension agents are respon-
sible for agricultural extension as well as for assisting in the programs of
other departments concerned with rural development. Under the project, a
Training and Visit system of agricultural extension would replace the existing
arrangements in the development blocks which are covered by the schemes. The
system would be operated by the GOM Agricultural Department in close cooper-
ation with the CADA Administrator for each irrigation scheme. Staffing
would be as follows: one Village Level Worker for about 700 farm families;
one Agricultural Extension Officer per 7 Village Level Workers; one Sub-
Divisional Agricultural Officer per 6 Agricultural Extension Officers; one
team of about 3 Subject Matter Specialists for about 80 Village Level Workers.
GOM would introduce the Training and Visit system not later than two years
after the first water delivery in each development block (Section 3.04(b) of
the Project Agreement).
54.       No difficulty is foreseen in meeting the project needs for seed,
fertilizer and plant protection chemicals. Forecasts of such input require-
ments are made by the Agriculture Departments of the Zilla Parishads before
each season. These are passed on to the supplying agencies--principally the
Maharashtra Cooperative Marketing Federation for fertilizers, the Maharashtra
Agro-Industries Development Corporation for plant protection chemicals and
the Department of Agriculture for seed. Under the project, the CADA would
coordinate input supplies for their respective areas. At present, many
farmers retain their own seed or buy or exchange seed with their neighbors,
although with the increasing use of modern varieties, this traditional
practice is declining. The production of breeder and foundation seed is the
responsibility of the universities and is carried out on the university farms.
Certified seed is supplied by the State Seeds Corporation, the National Seeds
Corporation, the Taluka Seed farms and by private producers. Distribution of
seed is both through private commercial channels and through the Agricultural
Department. The Bank Group has assisted the development and production of
high quality seeds in a number of Indian states, including Maharashtra,
through a loan and a credit, totalling US$41.0 million, benefiting the
National Seeds Corporation. Marketing and distribution of fertilizer is
adequately organized: there are 3,247 dealers registered with the



- 19 -
Agricultural Department throughout the State. Production loans for fertilizer
are extended by Cooperative Agricultural Credit Societies; the scale of
finance per hectare for all necessary inputs including fertilizer and pesti-
cides is fixed annually. The Bank Group has supported the fertilizer industry
throughout India by participating in the financing of ten projects with a
total contribution of US$723.4 million. The use of plant protection materials
is gradually becoming more widespread, especially for such crops as cotton,
chillies, hybrid sorghum and sugarcane. The Maharashtra Agro-Industries
Development Corporation purchases materials which are stored in State Ware-
housing Corporation godowns, from which the agents of the Zilla Parishads as
well as the cultivators purchase materials at full cost against cash payments.
55.       Development credit needs in the project areas would be primarily
for long-term loans, to finance on-farm development.  About half the holdings
are expected to require such works. Loans would be made to individual culti-
vators under terms and conditions of the Agricultural Refinance and Develop-
ment Corporation (ARDC) by the Central Cooperative Banks operating at the
village leve:L and by Agricultural Credit Societies. Other institutional
sources of short and medium term credit are the commercial banks, which are
the exclusive source of credit in some areas, as well as the newly established
rural banks.  The cost of on-farm development works during the 1979-84 period
would be about US$10 million. These costs are not included in the costs of
the project and would be financed from the existing IDA-supported ARDC III
credit.
56.       Marketing of farm produce is well organized throughout the State.
Most marketable surpluses are sold by farmers through regulated markets.
Markets serving the scheme areas are adequate but require further develop-
ment in order to handle, increased production. Finance for this would be
available through institutional sources. Present storage facilities provided
by GOM agencies, the Cooperatives and private trade are adequate. Similarly,
processing facilities are at present satisfactory.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$451.0 million equiva-
lent. Taxes and duties included in the cost estimate are negligible. The
foreign exchange component of project cost is estimated at US$70.7 million
(16%). The principal cost components, net of physical and price contingencies,
are dams and major canals (US$185.9 million), distribution canals and drainage
(US$22.3 million), land acquisition (US$36.1 million) and roads (US$13.9
million). The balance is made up by equipment and buildings (US$3.6 million),
training, research and monitoring (US$5.4 million), modernization of Girna
and Mula (US$8.6 million), engineering and administration (US$43.9 million),
physical contingencies (US$47.7 million), and price contingencies (US$83.6
million).
58.       The proposed credit of US$210.0 million would cover 47% of total
project cost, including all foreign exchange cost and 37% of local cost.
GOM would finance the remaining project cost. The proceeds of the credit
would be used to finance: civil works (US$170.0 million); pilot water
management works to incremental standards, training in water management,



- 20 -
agricultural training and research, monitoring and evaluation, and incre-
mental establishment for O&M (US$6.0 million); and vehicles and equipment
(US$24.0 million). The remaining US$10.0 million would be left unallocated.
59.       The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
recently approved a request by GOI for a US$50 million equivalent credit,
to be channelled to GOM in support of its irrigation development plan. The
IFAD credit would be in addition to the proposed IDA credit. The project was
appraised by the Association. The IFAD credit will be used to finance
50% of the estimated US$100.0 million total cost of the Bhima irrigation
scheme, which would be implemented in accordance with the same planning,
design, construction and operation criteria that have been established for
the proposed IDA project.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       The proposed project includes US$203 million worth of civil works
(net of contingencies and engineering and administration). Of these, contracts
for dams and main canals tendered after the June 1979 appraisal of the project,
totalling about US$113 million, would be let following international competi-
tive bidding. To encourage participation of smaller contractors, tenders
will be designed to allow alternative tendering on individual schedules.
For bid evaluation, a preference of 7.5% would be granted to Indian contrac-
tors. Tender documents would specify this preference and the manner of
its application. GOI and GOM have requested that four earth dams, worth US$47
million (25% of the civil works), be constructed by the Irrigation Department
rather than by contractors. The Association would be prepared to accept GOI's
and GOM's request, provided that by November 1979 and after receipt of bids
for these works under the ICB exercise, GOM is able to prove to the Associa-
tion's satisfaction that implementation departmentally would be substantially
more economical than by private contractors. If the Association should agree
to departmental execution, the work let on the basis of ICB would be reduced
to about US$66 million worth. Three of the fourteen ongoing multi-year
contracts for construction elements of dams and main canals, recently awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with standard GOM
procurement procedures, have been found acceptable for financing under the
project. The value of work under these contracts, outstanding as of October 1,
1979, and eligible for financing under the project would be about US$4 million.
Two additional on-going contracts, with a total value of about US$31 million
outstanding as of October 1, 1979, also let on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with normal GOM procurement procedures, were determined
as being not eligible for financing from the proceeds of the proposed credit,
since in the judgment of the Association they would, because of their size,
have been suitable for international tendering. The remaining civil works
(US$55 million) are individually small, scattered over a large area and
carried out intermittently as determined by weather conditions and agri-
cultural activities. Therefore, US$32 million worth of these works would
be carried out by local contractors, after local competitive bidding on the
basis of standardized competitive bidding procedures and guidelines recently
developed by GOI's Central Water Commission and approved by the Association.
The balance of these civil works (US$23 million) would involve a variety of
technical constraints which would make these works impractical for tendering.



- 21 -
They would be implemented by GCM's Employment Guarantee Scheme (US$11 million),
piecework contracts (US$10 million) and by GOM's Mechanical Department
(US$2 million).
61.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment to be procured under
the project is approximately US$25 million. Of this total, equipment valued
at about US$1]1 million (all heavy equipment and instrumentation) would be
procured through ICB. A preference limited to 15%, or the prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. The balance (US$14 million), comprising light equipment and vehicles,
would be procured locally after LCB in order that they could benefit from
existing servicing and spare part supply facilities.
62.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles and against the
ex-factory price when procured locally.  Where the ex-factory price is not
readily available, 70% of expenditure would be reimbursed. Disbursements for
civil works would be 70% in the case of expenditures incurred up to March
31, 1983 (which marks the end of the current Five Year Plan), and 50% there-
after. This arrangement will help GOM to offset an initial budget shortfall
resulting from the Association's decision that two on-going contracts with
a total value of US$31 million are not eligible for financing from the credit
(paragraph 60 above); it would thus help to avoid delays during the first
years of project implementation. For all other categories (pilot water manage-
ment, training, research, monitoring and evaluation, incremental establishment
for O&M disbursements) would be 100% of costs. Full documentation would be
required for all disbursements, except for payments of up to Rs 100,000 for
civil works and Rs 50,000 for equipment and vehicles, and for force account,
for which disbursements would be made against certificates of expenditure.
The supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted to IDA
but would be retained by GOM for inspection by IDA review missions. It is
expected thaLt disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1984.
Benefits and Economic Justification
63.       The proposed project would transform low production drought prone
rainfed areas into highly productive irrigated lands, on which year-round
cropping would be practiced. Expected incremental annual production of major
commodities at full development (about 10 years after commencement of irriga-
tion in each block) from the five new schemes is estimated to be 945,000 tons
of foodgrains, 57,000 tons of' cotton and 2,337,000 tons of sugarcane. The
project wouLd generate year-round employment opportunities for about an
additional 55,000 farm family members, 113,000 landless laborers, and 65,000
workers in non-farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. Net
farm income for the 120,000 clirectly benefiting farm families in the project
area, which presently averages Rs 870/ha, is expected to increase to an
average of about Rs 4,500/ha (of which about Rs 3,200 would be due to the
project). The percentage of farm families below the poverty line, presently
about 60% ia the project area, should decline to about 13%.
64.       As a consequence oiE the project, local capabilities for the plann-
ing, design, monitoring and evaluation of the irrigation schemes would be



- 22 -
strengthened and should lead to general improvements in the technical and
economic efficiency of future developments in Maharashtra's irrigation sector.
65.       The economic rate of return has been calculated for each entire
scheme from its inception to its completion. Discounting costs and benefits
over a 50 year period, the economic rates of return for the five new schemes
are: Krishna, costing US$48.4 million or 18% of base cost (net of contin-
gencies, and engineering and administration)--18%; Kukadi, costing US$61.6
million or 23% of base cost -- 15%; Upper Penganga, costing US$57.2 million or
22% of base cost -- 15%; Upper Wardha, costing US$48.5 million or 18% of base
cost -- 18%; and Warna, costing US$50.5 million or 19% of base cost -- 14%.
The overall economic rate of return is 16%.
Cost Recovery
66.       The introduction of irrigation would increase annual farm incomes
by an average of about Rs 3,200/ha, with variations depending on farm size
and location. The corresponding "project rent" (net incremental income less
the necessary rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and
cultivation risk) is estimated to average about Rs 2,030/ha at full develop-
ment. The annual financial requirement to recover total capital cost of the
project (at 10% interest over 50 years for infrastructure and over 10 years
for other investments) and O&M expenditures would be Rs 2,120/ha. At current
rates, direct and indirect revenue from the irrigated lands would total
Rs 627/ha, equivalent to a total cost recovery index of 30% for the project
and a project rent recovery of 31%. However, this overestimates the net
impact of the project cost on the budget since the increased farm incomes
would lead to further increases in GOM and GOI revenues through other in-
direct taxes. Under the project, such incremental revenues from non-
agricultural taxes would be about Rs 160/ha. If also these taxes are taken
into account, the project cost recovery increases to 37%. Given the expected
large increases in income as a result of the construction of the schemes,
there appears to be scope for increases in water and water related charges.
On the other hand, while water charges in Maharashtra are relatively low,
GOM is making a strong effort in resource mobilizatiop by other means. Its
revenues per capita (Rs 170 in 1976/77) are the third highest in India and
almost twice the national average and tax revenues have increased from 4.0%
of the State's income in 1960/61 to 7.5% in 1976/77.
67.       In general, volumetric water rates should promote a more efficient
water use than area-based water charges, but the unlined distribution systems
existing at present permit neither a reliable irrigation supply nor an
accurate measurement of the water supplied to each farmer. The new technical
standards for the distribution network and the rotational water supply in-
troduced under the credit are specifically designed to ensure that each
farmer in the command areas receives a fixed volume of water in a reliable
fashion. Thus, it would be technically feasible to charge the farmers on
a volumetric basis. When the farmer is allocated a fixed amount of water,
he tends to select his crops and his intensity of irrigation in such a way
that he optimizes his returns to water. In the absence of major distortions
in the price structure of major crops, this allocation system generally
leads to an efficient use of water. Conversely, an area based water charge



- 23 -
provides an incentive to the farmer to use his water allocation on a smaller
area than would be desirable from society's point of view.  Consequently,
area-based charges might adversely affect production if they are set at too
high a level. Volumetric charges would allow farmers to vary their crops and
the irrigated area to maximize the private and social returns to water irre-
spective of the level of water charges. Efficiency considerations, therefore,
imply that the introduction of a charge related to the volume of water deliv-
ered is of high priority. Consequently, by December 31, 1980, GOM would
review the water and water-related charges in the State and, based on the
outcome of the review and after paying due regard to IDA's comments, it
would begin to experiment with different systems of volumetric charges. By
December 31, 1983, when GOM will have evaluated the experience from these
experiments, it would start implementing a volumetric system of charges in all
areas of the project (Section 3.10 of the Project Agreement).  The level of
these charges would be set to recover to the extent possible the cost of the
irrigation infrastructure; at: the same time, due consideration would be given
to farmers' incentives and payment capacity and to the overall budgetary
requirements of the State.
Project Risks
68.        The project would be implemented by agencies with proven experience
who would employ criteria for its design construction and operation that take
into account the experience gained in many years of irrigation development and
which represent substantial improvements over those now in use. Given these
considerations and the receptiveness and industriousness of project area
farmers, tb,e risks associated with the project are small and acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.        The draft Developmient Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Maharashtra, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
70.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
September 26, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERRAGES
INDIA                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) L-
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                  INDIAA- MOST RESAME                                 NEXT HIGHER
TOTAGLRAL       1818.63                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0        90.0      150.0           167.5      181.9        430.3
ENERCd  C>NSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      142.0       181.0     218.0             69.1       83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9        547.6     631.7/f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      20.7             13.2        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     6973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPIJLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.0       167.0     192.0             86.6        49.4       45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        308.0     347.0            330.2      252.0        149.0
POPJLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.8        42.5      42.0             44.3       43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                         55.7         54.6      55.0             52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5         2.9       3.0              3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.3       2.1              2.4        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               2.5/L       3.3       3.1              4.1        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0        40.0       35.0            44.4       42.4         39.4
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0        17.0       14.0            16.4       15.9         11.7
CRcss REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         2.9       2.4              3.2        2.9          2.7
FAP ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0      3782.0    4518.0
UlSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0      16.9              7.9       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          100.0       102.0     101.0             99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.0         92.0      89.0             93.0       93.3        94.7
7ROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        53.0      48.0             56.1       52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        16.0      12.6             10.4       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0        22.0       18.0            19.2        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0         48.0      51.0             49.1       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0        ..               ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENr OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0             31.5       26.3         34.4
URBAN                                ..        60.0      83.0             63.9       58.5         57.9
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0             20.1       15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF pOPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        18.0      20.0             15.7       16.0         40.8
URBAN                                          85.0      87.0             66.8       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..         1.0       2.0              2.5        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5800.0/h    4890.0    3135.0           7107.9    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      9630.07W    5220.0    6320.0          12064.0     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2590.0/i    2020.0    1231.0           2738.4     1417.1        726.5
URBAN           .                    ..          ..         ..              ..      197.3        272.7
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..              ..     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..              ..       24.8         27.5
MOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          ..        5.2              ..        5.3          5.4
URBAN                               5.2          ..       4.8               ..        4.9          5.1
RURAL                               5.2          ..       5.3               ..        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8        ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
CF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               .,           ,.        ..               ..       22.5         28.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       17.8         45.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYIAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72.0      79.0             59.5        63.3         82.7
MALE                  80.0         87.0       94.0             74.9        79.1        87.3
FEMALE                40.0         55.0       63.0             43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         29.0      28.0             19.5        16.7         21.4
MALE                  30.0         39.0       38.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                10.0         17.0       18.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   8.0            6.OLi       ..              1.3        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        40.0       42.0             42.2        41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0        ..               ..        21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0       36.0             25.5       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0       1.2              2.3         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         21.0      24.0             15.5        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.1       0.5               ..         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.0               6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3        3.8               ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3         32.6      32.2             21.4        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               73.0         73.0      73.0             66.3        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0      11.0              9.6        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2       39.2             35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3       51.3             52.3       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1       26.2             15.7       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.1              1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26.3/1      ..               ..          ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7           48.971       * -              **                    48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            6.771       ..              ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.27        ..              ..          ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      83.0             86.5        99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      73.0              74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..               ..        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      50.0              50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      47.0              44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       52.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   /j  1951-60;   /h  1962;
/i  1958;   /j  1967;   /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /I  1964-65.
May, 1979



ANXNEX i
ALMUi) 9.AL Cat                                                                          Page  3 of  5
hot.t,.  Alth.ugh  h., d-O,...0 droro  Itse    --ita  *-.elv  ludi.d th.  -,t  "tOata aa   raliabl., It shold alo ho  cted that thy cay oct ho fetrr-_
olOrall   -w  -arbl. hocos. of ths Ilak of ocatdea    rttroaad .-.cpt. o.d by diff.rat courtofs   L. -o11-ta   1hm hats.  ito. data or.,  -aaoh.l....
TOO  ~ifl .2a trou2moo-ca   for sh lot,di           ror  poootlotfta-osfhtad goamotti  nfl, #.oluttag  th. .art-   -lis   of tha lritcoo   ..A  tfta mot poplotoco
orocy It auh  roP.    o   0  ac   fdt,  tWsooaao                             iaditato. for   spotta1 to-pl.. oil  ap-rt.r. aad at i.t-dta . of sof.. to  tcos  sad  raa
diapoa... L,    sig,   oa    d.ribatloo   w  PO-ty ftc othr co-try groupP.arm  PaPolacto-.t__ghc.  B-tris   or   tta,hoo.. oloO-io. at tfo  .otr-    -lu-  st
tbs  -ot papulatad  -rtty.    lte-  tl. toerram    of Caucrla     ga.  h   ldoto               vtaceta  a   -aalabitvleo    -a.odI   r    lra    sti-r rot ha ororoloed
Ir  aladm  aro.  f ta   Lodi.tr    t.tC  amoebae   ThoAc aVeas ar    od    etlo   oto.ao                          f 'srea'rls    tn                nrim  the  "I-o  ofo.
Wi..at.r at o  tmacSeM         ~    tlatf1*5,ZaML
LA!RO&i A   ch,tatA   A. a..$es  to c-relsdArak    eom    fa,oalr  -tot _ tbo.s
T.ttculTuoa     - Orc  ,20    acef   fagtotrlo-.  otOmusty                                       poa   oprmsaa   o   farrast                        "Follroor.   trOco        disol
or toIoooy      -.r op., psot-rs   -arkst sad kitrfhoo g-rte-  0W  oo                   may   uloda th. colla-loror dAM          oa ,  tt!. r- Ithtitot050tst0
cu.d.cr  ad  .*Al"a   tstllartas.
-tpopr -taplr    otio..t  at owom    a-eat prig.,                                                   f . ppol.ttu   dlotdmd br .-bar r  p,-otIflsa  ptsyo-
1960. 190, se  t        d91 t-r                                                                                         o1E-Pop.I.ttom  di,idea  by mAdr of p-ratLa  o
xx cags~ft  ~     somoo  omosaptoc ofc0010locargy  coot         ~           bcmei,sl had    totalorhes.~,1~La4- Papo.mttoa(tot al
oat imt.a  patrol _as   crat ge  ad hydra-,                                                      LL!!_d 59an1 ~ do mltla     b   ht  taspoottEe    t        o   adtalbt
ad1976 dat.                                                                                bablittr iaeioraa          ItopitCol  oto -aats1btl.mtc  pre          tip rffad 
12~h1~.U~..~,XI!MciIjTlTftS                                          -So  lo1- a          hmiia   C.t.bli.h-.oO. prstMs. patmapolly amrmt.al
Totl mmalala mt--,ar  eiliucl -ha  f Joly 1; 1990, 1970. -t                       -omsc   a  tsrtd.d.   r.al hoopit.lo. h  -ar, iImlde- health oat  .it-
1977 dat.-al                                                                                          tr   o   P._..Iy  rota.0   ropsmca   bab                          i. 
dttfareat dcfictt.so    rfrra   ay ,stma-  .bop-bailitry of daarrvd      l                                           ".ottn   of madirs  fclilittm-
._Sot  -otrJtfa     1*sf, 1970 ard 1975 dtac.                                                               hw.sipm   arb Acte  bid - Toro1 otoo   f adi.tasm    to or ditsh-rg..
OE2ftlotlc_i;" tctOr                                                                           foam  lopitcala dttid"-  by th. radar of hado.
1975  ot,,l porltir ry oar sod t-  ..d thoir  -tolitry .td foollrity
rats.    rocotorP-r-o   for ear-ltty  ra-s  -aPriaI Of                                                                             h-,mo     aa  soeofhus-tltforoc  or  .
looes  coa, a   tslm110  ooo. tr.          ta itot   at17.5 ycsts.                  sod the11 asc  -.014.   hArbder or fod-o  cay or-y cot he tartotd                     tim
Thy   ssatr   fo      rotIt         -as  I.o to.-  3 1-.l dssamgtoil                         PasamOld far  Lcatitcitol poopraso
I0 t_rltici   t,rO-tc  it  Icram   Coto  ad  p-a  fic y plarctcg  P0-                       orm              fotc searam-otls6..adotl- Ton..
f--rsr..  toi- utrr   I. t000 aaai0esd -   of Chess 9 oaktaatlos                             afpraspa   ra    a  1,  oo, and:M1 rura  oroapidttestoa    hl
it -oolily out f-ttOlCy  ored  tr  paicoa psspr .                                        r-paottly.  -lcctlla            caaa   o-poraaat  - -r-trc    sod aoO~deo
i.~  lory Imelca to- to    ttttaoy            psaLooja, there . .. S-., a-oo               Lc..r c-t.aeLa,tr (--teo  of tslco    - tt-l.rb .md  al
oothoboh r-s  to ea.to  to the dsath  ~a., ad st.  the 060                           C-emtlstl 6ratligmp  rith o1-orioct, Ia Ilt.ma q.0 r  a, pmEL"p, at
itOOAO   ao   -otoet.  Tht.I. i   otvt   t    ft-n  fertility rat,,                  totl, urhb, ad ru1a d-mllo~gor-p-oti-ly.
Ioooto   for -   -atao     . la f amtcty.  Tha S_totlaas  P*Palettam               UATC
a t. or  . *0 tod am th. hooa of Cbs pro)srt.toearaittsa  th=                               f.        motoorcr
oocy.tcomao  bo .                                                                            cotofslsaoa  the primary  m,.   r  ,r.oaaoftorttlo     potetp.
les  laootso   rc,lstooaRsashst - Tha yesr aOm. lSt.iao-t  aro                       rha-         popo.iscrc        -11aly toioIdt   rhld-m   &"s  b-lb potts bog
clam  slo  ha. boar _ouhed                                                                    djstad Fo. differeco  lorOtho of prfcary odocotiam; tF- caa                    1lbt
L pololai.sa. ucoeos  mdr.. tao   -.tota t ooy trosd tOO p-roat cm  s.-  papilao.
P.,_tU-a.h.-   Mtd-y.-a  purlsotu  por ottr.  WtisCa   (MtO hoat-ro                           hoI   orohamrh  oOfil   holsr
of tota  -r,                                                                                 taay  oot-ttl.~- -=-         Ca,st aae -tap-d ar skov;   -ccdary  .tt.-
Pet c.E fo.           a         doctoolfc   - Campoord sosat. o  cgt.clfts  ld                tlor rr.iur.. ao 1 ...  foot yarc  f0  ppr-rd potar   toratto   plartme 
amfy.l                                                                                        eoaora-l ldr0ca c-,l-1,1, 1trI,e Sl,  r rsohotCrlotot tootractiora  for pupllc  -.slyV af
(19-6' -os,)  sat ractLid  (65   arao  -i,r) Ob Per-aegc   at ald-                          Vttnlmrlae    a n    fccas-f-fctatIaCttao                                             td
osrportsttoa   190, 0971 sod 09ff dot..                                                   tehio.learo.o  ohrpora.athosot   e.eactyOa
1-h                 (       tl t"           Same  gaxth  -otos of total
tady-t          6    00I.i.                      .t1970-f77                                 dapararato  ofsosto tzlotaa
.t. t   r..-I ll~ bIrthe pot onoosr  oI                             Adc.lt imtrsor robtlsro LC            - lrt. adoltc  IsbI  to rest d W olta)a
old -ys rooalo-1960. 07   o 19              17. 9 5s                                             scesoo  Otot1 otlt pop,ilsobo   qdo 15 pra-   atsot
Octot 40-0tacoL isor _thj,j26    - -ana           ahs pot thousas  of aid-
yrat popolatra, 0900, 19701 sd 1977 data.
It  ot  araf  op,tt,ctv   prio  If .0oPlrta- -         rsa -a                       reariao  I... thas   U1gb  plraoo; rrcIdo. amb.tcm,Paea.ad.itr
spcttcO til t, r.oos   --II, tyiv-ya-    -poago   odtiag Ia  M9O,                    ohcio
1070, oat 1975.                                                                           Ruircttr   o   btsrtootca                         - 011 07000 at   -1-tmO     fr -adio
aCOptOO  0  hltf,cotroftootrto,tor..0pic,  of_tos   a7rctet .. o coo,                                 r      -ar  in .....  h-t r-giort-tta     of radi  aftt  = t.1
itrgtadonrf .ldbai g ag  (05 -46ycta  TtotssVrhcoco                                        14rcl, octa fort Cot.-d taoct,ti     - TV rooi-a.  tot broattot to eSaa1
datmts 1,o-rtt rd    o - 10 ran  ASe groa.                                          ptblic  pet rhousrd popa.tatt ;  actdaa  -ttti-d TV   -i-tat   It  00
tresod Io ymara ober-        ttato    f Tv ast .0 i- Imff-t.
'0OO gI OlKl0RlTULN9                                                                             asoortrtot    a   choossad tatrultimo   - Sboe  the   -.eS.olcoa
I Mrolprdtti   of all foot o-dotlics.  Pooactr   -otdc-  sad sad                            .lrio  d.rort.drmaIl  o  rocorldg aa-rl me= ti   ntierod ta
,frtd  -r   00   oas    os   st. Cndts   -torpottler-y  ot ga ddaIly    0 it itppo..oa   los t..  far rtmo   a ok.
eu. oocrcooo  oatostot rotr) oh I   art olbtr ad cott troariocta       ilaoe  aoos   cattanco..   . ro  -sott  ocr ... I-  B.d  -a rho wtber of tikbst
it~ y-d oro-loi-    o-rSa. peoda.l.  price aoight..oc.
fo 001, ualo 0  oloiP Ieo r       e  ofl,     rootlrs -ca   -  LapIlt. Ir..
qoarot  ouolo    f-a   fo   rap-i"  l.a   o ttshtm  to cootory potI    capi.             fJ~ti:-.=9ff.                              ~h       --,Dii
00700.  od  ha~t  tosck   trotopp.. d    00or py.IoSt-1 .t.. dat f    oads                    ad tolovad 1o I.ocladba  hfoara                         -1dora  et.b.  Nsr-
900021 la  .00 0  fot pocotlo, ot bo.  c  Aatrhotro. kO           ~        OlodyI  talo      borotr.rofr. Imtf-abtm.-r,htr                              dfhi;
-bioooh      oo  ooase    y(t   ar odr plytlolatrl0d              d   tt op-           P-f        ..att .     fsooo   t-If l  labor fo.l... csaaooftri  so   tra
2-,   .rafot   ao-1 l.    rrislgoocrsra -oa-stadoa,-1.dy                                   A trcltt fpprl-t)   - Labor footo Ir foec,.rory    oCcda ihr
.Rrt omyostool c  00004cr ters.r  .O  d-r) - ntoctot   --tet ofpc                              .1tlirtcty, uotorar .       *d  so.  prta of ltota  labor f-C.
ca.plt   -tor  -pfply of foot pot day).  Nor supply of foot I.  slat5                     P.ytg&i.to  (eoml-101.ne                             dfaa-  warttlipotln
cf astool  ot pas.rp1tapa,0t ittch I            area  shalt b   stsi  tooo.          190t170a t.197 ,ca               ha   .rc  700     fatcpOo   ra..rftot
fho    o drt  atI.lorrta  Ott.l  Ioto0  5atao  total.b~    prtoI'"lo  sat0-d17    .t.T- l   I'     lI.Pi                                                       ..._It
FAO it th. tbird WorId  fetd S-ty.                                                           aro  foa  oalaalsorr
forosota  rocla  aro  fIr     -ifeo  and rot.! - trotoia  -ipply 00 foot             E.opoaml dttedeo   ro-tto -  .01f0 of popolaria   otter 15 .at hO aod rtt
d_rt_o  fr_  _1sols  art polos 1r area  po day.                                              th. labor foto  Ir ar groop of15-64 yoot,.
thilt (Mo   1-4a cootalt rots~   'Im   -`. r    - Aot-l d-sha pr Orhot-                           OSTfil1
d-rolpiog   .00 tO. tr  drtlto   f-a  lit. rahloa.                                                       f           Iroc, V   ct3yoore,pooio  -h ordt.ki.d)   -iorrd  00 ptrhaot
Wo cbrh    9), 1970,..ad 197) dso.t.PIlERTrY IAROt-  GRttu SO
tooroa  o0aoroarthoosd  l~o ditc       ...heh.orpoerr  irof.loo1  C  rhr  NcS   Ipro - oict.- -hlc   a cI-l
-rbo  of poole  tota.  ro.d I n   ot Ijob bisortht.coorAc.ototdOh. P.t                                            -- I-            .t-I-          -      .c   ht
-o 0  otaoorapo2,fottoalcrth       -dost lorto  cofo.00                            oI  thajoc    h t   lgt  00 -,".   -b-                 I d  t-   rrot-   l h.  1
CO  rtot   ,0      2,2c  ath  cotidrt   r  ocg  t to   raotbl    utatotrooiltoOcoctoolcoc_ooooo-                            lonlOroo   -00 -o
-  I   0y-oo  I0 rora)  yra  ttrothoato,lof  hpyorl-yc,r                                        ofpoooato  lot-,,                                            -h-  -a,  h    rt.ho'fOf
or -rtyto        (o ...oo blt d     ...00   I000004
lloyrrtioo:oi   rot 2  oh  da  20oi   ,1dr rho Is-ti- ur-rdod_tCt1,   000r.0  olCio   ,.t
A,11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A_ol                                                                         roc1   0  POlOtOt  ip,tai



ANNEX I
uowacc UIvuWIinT saz&                       Page  4  of  5
CIQ 11 Ch7Um IN 1977: UN 150
CUSIS                   IN0.L i l     1977/7J                                                  UL U5S          w     CL ctact uric.)
us$ flp        r                                               190/61-1964/G$      1965/.199/70    1970/71-1976/77
GJl at *srket Prices             101.47      100.0                                                   3.9                 3.8                 3.2
Groa  Docstic lwnsat               i.65       21.3
Groc  National Saving             22.77       22.4
Current Account Balance  a/        1.04        1.0
Ueource SaLace   d/              - 0.31        0.3
oWS. LUjox   ~   us   OlDCTZXT in 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force                P.  t  orker
D $ "*         ..    .            HilJ.7.     I              ia S of Ntional Avarace
4riculture                         24.5           46.6 S130.0                  72.1            188               64
Industry                          11.5            Z2.2               20.2      11.2            582              19S
Sarvicee                           16.3            1. 130.2                    16.7             42              i
Iotal/aerage                       52.6          100.0               180.4    100.0            292              100
c~inr   1zam                               C o      .r  1C 
Cemeral Goverf iat                                            Ce :ral Cofv   i
1977174       1977 778                                       1 t77/78       1777        17/
Current Recipts                   164.42         18.9          18.2                             95.62          11.0           10.5
Curreant 1zpditures              157.29          181           16.5                             952            10.9            __9
Current SurplusiDeficit             7.13          O.8           1.6                              0.35          a.o.            0.6
Capital U_saditurom  f/           62.58           7.2           7.0                             43.31           5.0            5.0
4xtecnal AsiiertnCe (net) A/        9.82          1.1           1.6                              S.82           1.1            1.6
KOMiT. ~CDT Al PUZC                  1970/71    1973/7'    1974/75    1975/76    1)17l V77                Sest_er 1977       seteabr  1975
(U Billion ousttanding at end of period)
loamy and Qasi Money                  121 4      198.4      220.3       254.7     350.9       365.1           334.8            395.6
baek  Credit to Govert t (t)           52.6       57.3       95.3       101.1      110.2      129.7           119.3            139.5
eak Credit to Commrcial Soctor         64.6      107.0      126.7       153.9      185.1      210.0           195.3            223.5
(iercta-ge or Indax Numers)                                Jawary 1978       Jamnaary 1979
Moey and Quasi  1am ys I of GM         30.1       33.5       31.5        34.5       38.8        41.9
Wbolesale Price Indax
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0       139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6        115.8        184.5              184.6
4a1mw  percenatge chben   in:
Wbolsale  Mric  ndex                    7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1         2.1         5.2           3.2               0.1
aee  Credit to Govermwnt (t)           10.8       12.3        9 2        6 1         9.0        17.7          13.4              16.9
ba  Crdit to C_marcial Sector          19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5        20.3        13.5          16.6              14.'
I Th per cpitt Clt astiate is at _rkat pricat, calculated by the cove rsion technique usd in the world Alas.
All other conversiona to dollars in this table are at tho avers" exchane ratc  provailig durtxg Sba partod coere.
b/ Quick 8atiate.
1/ Cputed fro. tred  Ilne of  l at factor cost series, including one observatio  before first year and one
observation after leet year of listed period.
i/  World lank aetitieo; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statitice.
of  Tranfers btween Centre and States have bean notted out.
f/ All lobe  and edvancem to third partias have been natted out.
1t Aternal grants and lows, less principal repaymnts, as recorded in the Central Budget.



AMKEX I
Page 5 of 5
BAAM   o PA IS                 1975/76    1977        1       607778 S178/79            mA1 IS8 NU=                    1975/76 - 1S77/780)
(U-0 miWi-en)                               UmVeL~.    L
imports of Goods                 4,672      5,753       6,276        6,800              Ingiaeri.g Goods               610        11
Imports of GoCds                -6,449    -5,926       -7,237       -8,400              Tea                            417         7
Trade B lace                    -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600              GCm                            377         7
NFS (nat)                          310        360          650         700              Clothing                       331         6
Leather and Leather
lesourec B1ancec                -1.467        In         - 31       - 900                       Products               278         5
Jute Manufactures             267          5
Interest Payments (net)          - 216      - 180         - 50         -                Iron Ore                       265         5
Otbhr Factor Paymnts (net)          -          -            -          -                Cotton Textiles                248         4
ldot Transfers  j/                 470        730        1,400      1,300               Supr                           244         4
Others                      2,530         45
Balance on Currant Account      -1  213                 1.039         400
Official Aid
Disbursements                 2,341      1,953       1,628       1,805               ITIM L DUT, MARCH 31. 1978 I/
Amortimation                  - 531      - 560       - 645       - 725                                                    US$ billion
Transactions with 11W              242      - 337       - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed               14.8
All Other Itms                    - 45      - 216          384        205               Undicaurced                              4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Raserves (-)         - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                    Undirburred                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end Fear)        2,172      3,747       5,823       7,350                                                h/li
Net Resrves (end year)  k/       1,365      3,276       5,668       7,350               DEBT SUVICE RATIO FMC 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Haterials                                                              IBRD/IDA LINDIIW. DICIEBR 31. 1978
Imports                          1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                    USS Killion
of which: Petroleum            1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                              IDA
Exports                             43         37           33       n.e.               Outstanding and Disbursed          613        3,864
of which: Petroleum               22         21          18        na.                Undisbursed                        615        1,992
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE C RIXCHANE
June 1966 to mid-Decambr 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Kid-December 1971 to end-Jun. 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$D.137376
After end-June 1972                     Floting Rate
Spot late and-December 1978             US1.00 - Rs B.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
21 Estimat4d.
1/ Figures given cover all i tnesemt income (ot). Major paynts are interest on foreign lonan
and charpes paid to IW, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
jI Figures given include workers' reittances but ezclude officicl grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  txcludes net use of IMP credit.
I/ Amortization and interest papmnts on foreign loans as a pareentap of mrchandise exports.
a/ SEcludes exchange adjust_nt, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of July 31, 1979)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower          Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                               1,163.2
55 Credits fully disbursed                                      3,338.6
267-IN      1971   India      Wheat Storage             --         5.0      .49
294-IN      1972   India      Bihar Agricultural
Markets                 --       14.0    1.68
312-IN      1972   India      Population                --        21.0    1.68
342-IN      1972   India      Education                 --        12.0    6.39
356-IN      1973   India      IDBI I                    --        25.0    8.73
378-IN      1973   India      Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                 --        8.0    6.28
390-IN      1973   India      Bombay Water Supply I   --          55.0   11.01
427-IN      1973   India      Calcutta Urban
Development I           --       35.0    1.24
440-IN      1973   India      Bihar Agricultural
Credit                  --       32.0    3.90
456-IN      1974   India      HP Apple Processing
& Marketing             --        13.0    8.45
481-IN      1974   India      Trombay IV Fertilizer   --          50.0    1.07
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      24.56
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   38.80
520-IN      1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    5.90
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   17.97
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    7.36
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   13.87
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --      19.43
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            96.8       --       7.29
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   13.72
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development             --        34.0   15.85
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD            --         24.0    9.65
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0   28.04
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   27.35
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   69.06
605-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   94.52



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower          Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --         4.0      2.70
610-IN      1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development             --        18.0    16.06
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation            145.0        --    119.40
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                    40.0        --      28.13
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I           25.0        --      24.44
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0            --     24.79
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0            --      13.28
680-IN      1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development             --         30.0   29.84
682-IN      1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development             --         20.0   17.72
685-IN      1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --        150.0  123.92
687-IN      1977   India    Madras Urban
Development             --         24.0   17.06
690-IN      1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --         12.0   12.00
695-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           --          4.0    2.66
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           14.0       --     14.00
712-IN      1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --         10.0    9.74
715-IN      1977   India    ARDC II                     --        200.0   74.32
720-IN      1977   India    Periyar Vaiyar
Irrigation              --         23.0   19.30
728-IN      1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development             --          8.0    7.40
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development            150.0       --     81.35
736-IN      1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation              --         70.0   57.23
737-IN      1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --         13.0   12.09
740-IN      1977   India    Orissa Irrigation           --         58.0   53.20
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII            80.0       --     48.15
747-IN      1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --        107.0   99.08
756-IN      1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II          --         87.0   67.92
761-IN      1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     :1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0      --      25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0      --      95.75
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --          117.6  109.58
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power       --        200.0  181.15
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --        14.0   14.00
808-IN     1978   India    Guajarat Irrigation        --        85.0   81.56
815-IN     1978   India    Anidhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.50
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          -         16.0   15.99
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --     82.69
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --       150.0  147.54
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --       196.0  196.00
843-IN     1979   India    Jaryana Irrigation        --        111.0  100.95
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --       190.0  180.66
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --        38.0   37.07
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --        27.0   27.00
862-IN*    1979   India    C,mposite Agricultural
Extension              --        25.0   25.00
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --        30.0   27.48
1648-IN     1979   India    RLamagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0      --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    tamagundam Thermal
Power                  -        200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation         --        129.0  129.00
899-IN*    1979   India   M4aharashtra Water
Supply                 --        48.0   48.00
911-IN*    1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --       175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India   lJttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --        23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India    ARDC III                   --        250.0  250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India    Thal Fertilizer           250.0       --    250.00
Total                                  2,530.0   7,234.8
of which has been repaid               951.6       50.6
Total now outstanding                  1,578.4
Amount Sold                    133.3
of which has been repaid   112.2        21.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA         1,557.3   7,184.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          658.3   2,510.0
*   Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. -STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0         1.4        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               15.9         -        15.9
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             25.6        8.0       33.6
Undisbursed                           4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538.3 million in FY79 or 36% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,168 million
as of July 31, 1979, reflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing mediun- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX i
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: November 7, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These credits are designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The proportion of disbursements under Credit 715 to
small farmers is currently estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal
target of 50%. Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain,Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised becam,e operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is also proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes a pilot project to promote mushroom production. The project
encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical problems; however
remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficulties. Land has



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading sites, and procurement and
construction activities are well underway. The Project Preparation Report
for the juice processing plant has been completed, and the equipment has been
ordered. The road improvement program is progressing satisfactorily, and the
feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the packing/grading sites have been
completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture Project was declared effective on
January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date:  September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. Loan 1592 continues
support of the development of India's telecommunication system through FY 1981
and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian telecommunication
industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$92 million had
been awarded by March 1979. This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; all but US$4 million of this amount has
also been committed.
Cr. No. -481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date:  November 30, 1984
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphta and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily and no further delays in project
implementaiton are expected. Credit 598 is designed to increase the utiliza-
tion of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered
delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, somie of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are li^ y to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12
months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help establish wholesale markets in
a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the Bihar project
has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training of the Agri-
cultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation of the
project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for 53
market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. Progress
under the Karnataka project, initially slow, is improving. As of October
1978, when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36
of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion
at the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date:  May 9, 1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$11.8 million by the end of
June. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project comporLents and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. Completion
of water treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977)
has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed,
so that compLetion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-
1980, two years later than originaily forecast. Financial performance of the
project entity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implementation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
mi1lion credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical. reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursemenl:s under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisa'L. In order to imlprove the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now e!xpected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urbaLn service system.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative-scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made.
About 252 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established. Detailed
design studies for plant construction are complete. The response of small
farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all districts
in the State. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts have
been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well.
Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made in
organizing the servicing of nearly 800 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making adequate progress.
Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning to expand the form
of dairy development to all other districts of the State.



ANNEX 11
Page 13 of I,
Cr. No. 532     Bodavariarage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Bot:h the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 19881
Cr., No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Proiect;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, :1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Developmevt
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date:  January 16, 1978; Closing nate:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka IrriLgation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: ugust 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research ProJect;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 6, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 3_0, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date:  October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 7,
1979; Closing Date-   ,pcember 30, 1983
C-. Nio. 862    Compo-ft.- Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects finance the re-organization and strengthening of
agricultural extension and the development of adaptive agricultural research
services with the objective of achieving early and sustained improvements in
agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Arrangement for monitoring
and evaluation of project progress and impact is an essential feature of these
projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also provide funds for laying the
basis for longer term improvements in groundwater development in the States.
The projects' components include provision of additional staff, training
facilities, housing, offices, laboratory facilities, equipment and
transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24,_1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Ovrerall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala AgricuLtural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit  of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and  e&s
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of he
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided fcor development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research.  Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institutional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date:  October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months.
Credit 816 is supporting the second phase of India's national seed program.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
Decembe&  20, 1976; Effective Date:  March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Cc5ntracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered. Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traff-ic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority. Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credil of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977,; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, seafood
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program got off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements had reached 46% of the loan amount on April 30, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND MAUHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Maharashtra with assistance from
Water and Power Consultants (WAPCOS)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
September 1977; September 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
August 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
October 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOM to complete the schemes of the project,
after tbLe end of the five-year time-slice, as
soon as technically and financially feasible
(para 43);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) GOM to plan, design, construct and operate
the project schemes in accordance with agreed
criteria (para 42);
(c) GOM to establish a quality control unit in each
of the project schemes by January 1, 1980 and
to appoint a senior engineer responsible for these
quality control units (para 47);
(d) GOM to establish by June 1, 1980 and maintain a
training program for land development and water
management specialists (para 50);
(e) GOM to establish by January 1, 1980 a project
monitoring and evaluation unit in the office of
the Commissioner CAD (para 51);
(f) GOM to review the water and water-related charges
in the State by December 31, 1980 and, based on
the outcome of the review and after paying due
regard to IDA's comments, to begin to experiment
with different systems of volumetric charges;
COM to start, by December 31, 1983, implementing
a volumetric system of charges in the project
area (para 67).



-'  , .-.-,                                               M      A     D    H    Y       A                 P    R    A       D     E     $    Hn
j~~~~~~~~ 04 Bt  1 0h0 0
1  f   -'\    A,  Dib<,im B \       \           Ck'> S   9-p-->- 7-,,
\    \    0 , ,,)2  1 tsTr>/4\\ BZ         J  J )>                            /   tMc                  MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION I[ PROJECT                                                                    tbt.'.tu".
'7                           -\naX-    Prom7.7 Cono!s
A T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'42
J \   \  [,    S   J:  S   >s t   R           >   >t              t                                                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~          ~        ~~~~~~~r'oIec7 771907 Ofl Aroess  N  -,e   
18h.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                    .
T  t  r  //  S  ; ~~~~~ < \50n9 1 JSL /7vl Jr G Dnms and Reservors |ADEM ReP OF 5DOzGs7ons 00 Besrvor.                                                                         7444777    o    74407'Du
;  S  r \X;     . ' t .:     s   Ko op<s g    -  $  iR                 w                                                                  X      P4 07t ,,J  .(-.                                                                  F,754747
S  FA                                                                                                                                                  559452.,.  P70,040                                         777707.             (NA *    ___\ 2< t55   >  Mol  N  D    A  RANH
\   :   <:  '!0  r,:  prrr($> C - _  brure Bounduries t i Xe gs /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.Cn,.    Bors 
Ak-d..M                                                                                                         Bd                                               ..-I
-                                                               ..,oFOr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D    .0,d00---           \.4447
; trSr  e E            5vIeMves4    .oS  5o 0                                                                                            C Moto  0 oo07  C120 4      60.                                               .7f-: 
oI 4r7 '       .0  AC    0 "S    00'9     70  Ia -
D t- B-d.,-aeDr 0 5 MlLES Z T * = t 3 ;t W                        -                         4
OLOSO   2        00., B   0-        4        4.(~-U0



