Document of
The World Bank                           tV
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2529a-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(IN TWO VOLUMES)
VOLUME I - MAIN REPORT
September 13, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs) 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                    =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kIn)              =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                       2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters
(Mm3)                   =    810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic
feet (TMC)                =    28.32 Mm3
1 cubic foot per second              0.028 cubic meters per
(cusec)                   =    second (m3/s)
1 ton                                1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                           =    2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA      -    Agricultural Assistant (or Village Level Worker)
AD      -    Agriculture Department
AEO     -    Agricultural Extension Officer
AU      -    Agricultural University
ARDC    -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD     -    Command Area Development
CADA    -    Command Area Development Authority
CB      -    Commercial Bank
CCA     -    Cultivable Command Area
CCF     -    Construction Conversion Factor
CDO     -    Central Design Organization of GOM
EGS     -    Employment Guarantee Scheme
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FCF     -    Foodgrain Conversion Factor
GOI     -    Government of India
GOM     -    Government of Maharashtra
HYV     -    High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
ID      -    Irrigation Department
IFAD    -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
LDA     -    Land Development Agency
M       -    Million
OER     -    Official Exchange Rate
OFD     -    On-Farm Development
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PW&HD   -    Public Works and Housing Department
QCU     -    Quality Control Unit
RWS     -    Rotational Water Supply
SCF     -    Standard Conversion Factor
SSC     -    State Seeds Corporation
T&V     -    Training and Visit (System of Agricultural Extension)
VLW     -    Village Level Worker
WAPCOS  -    Water and Power Consultants
WMU     -    Water Management Unit
ZP      -    Zilla Parishad
GLOSSARY
Bajra   -    Pearl Millet
Chak    -    Block or irrigation service area below the Government outlet
Jowar   -    Sorghum
Kharif  -    Wet Season (June to October)
Nalla   -    Natural Drainage Channel
Paddy   -    Unhulled rice
Rabi    -    Dry Season (November to May)
Taluk   -    A sub-division of a district
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Maharashtra and Agencies  7  April 1 - March 31
ARDC, Cooperatives                         -  July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks                           -  January 1 - December 31
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
VOLUME I - MAIN REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT  BACKGROUND AND  OBJECTIVES  .......................
Background ...............................................
Evolution  of  IDA's  Lending  Policy  for  Irrigation  ........
Agriculture  in Maharashtra  ..............................                              2
Irrigation  in Maharashtra ................................                              3
Project  Formulation  .....................................                              4
Planning  Criteria  .......................................                              5
Design  Standards  ........................................                              6
Construction  Standards  ..................................                              7
Operational  Procedures  ..................................                              8
II.     THE PROJECT AREA AND PRESENT  DEVELOPMENT  ....                        ............      9
General  .................................................                               9
Public  Services  .........................................                             10
Climate,  Soils  and  Topography  ...........................                           10
Population  and  Land  Holdings  ............................                          10
Existing  Irrigation  Development  .........................                            11
Girna  and Mula  Irrigation  Schemes  .......................                          11
III.     THE PROJECT  .............................................                              11
Scope  of  the Operation  ..................................                           11
Water  Supply  and Demand  .................................                            12
Detailed  Description  ....................................                            13
-   Dams  ...........             ......................................               14
-   Irrigation  Canal  Networks  ............................                          14
-   Revision of Design  Standards  for  the Canal  Networks  ..                         15
-   Road Networks  ........................................                            16
-   Girna  and Mula  Irrigation  Schemes  Modernization                      ......    17
Construction Methods  ....................................                              17
Implementation  Schedule  .................................                            18
Land Acquisition  and Resettlement  .......................                            18
Cost Estimates  ..........................................                              19
Financing  Plan  ..........................................                            20
Budgetary  Implications  ..................................                            21
Procurement ..........                                                                  21
This  report  was  prepared  by Messrs.  W.G.  Rodger,  C.J.R.  Bridge,  Ms.  A.
Duncan, Messrs. G. Finlinson, M. Herman, R. Vick (Bank) and H.V. Dhamdhere
(WAPCOS), P.R. Borrowman, A. E. Gibbs and A.W. Plummer (C), and with contri-
butions by Messrs. G. Tibor and P. Ljung.



- ii-
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Disbursements  ...........................................                           23
Accounts  and Audits  .....................................                          23
Environmental  Effects  of the  Project  ....................                        23
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............                ..       ...............     24
A.   Project Planning  and Construction  ...................                         24
Irrigation  Department  .............            ..      ................      24
Agricultural  Department  ............            ..      ...............       24
Public Works  and  Housing  Department  ........                  .........     25
Quality Control Unit                  ..................  25
Dam  Review Panel  ..................                 ..................        25
B.   Irrigation  System Development  and Management  ....                   ....     26
General  .............................................                          26
Command  Area Development  (CAD)  Organization  ....                  .....     26
Strengthening  of the  CAD Organization  ....                   ...........    26
Training and Establishment for Land Development
and  Water  Mianagement Specialists  ....                 ..............     27
Monitoring  and Evaluation  ...........................                         28
Pilot Water Management  ..............................                          29
C.   Water Allocation,  Operation and Maintenance  ....                    .....     29
Water  Allocation and  Delivery  .......................                        29
Operation and Maintenance  of  Canal  Networks  ....                  .....    30
Road  Maintenance  ....................................                         30
D.   Farm Support  Services  ...............................                         31
Agricultural Research  .............             ..       ................      31
Agricultural  Extension  ................              ..     ............      31
Input  Supply  Services  .............           ..       ................     32
Seed        ........................         .........................          32
Fertilizers            ..............................                           32
Agricultural  Credit  ...............           ........                        33
Marketing          ......................        ......................         33
Storage and  Processing  .............            ..       ...............     33
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND COST RECOVERY  ....                        ...........    33
Cost  Recovery           .....................       ......................          34
- Capital and O&M Costs .........................                                    34
- Water Charges .........................                                            35
-   Other Water  Related  Charges  ...........................                       35



- iii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
-    Other   Agricultural   Taxes   .............................                                                  36
-    Levels   of   Cost   Recovery   ..............................                                                36
Evaluation  of  GOM's   Cost   Recovery  Policy   ......                                 ..       ........         36
-    Promoting   Efficient   Water   Use   ........................                                                37
-    Public   Savings   .......................................                                                    37
-  Farmer's Ability to Pay Water  Charges  ....                                              ............          38
VI.        BENEFITS   AND  JUSTIFICATION   ..............................                                                     39
General   .................................................                                                        39
Employment   Effects   ......................................                                                      41
Income  Effects   ..........................................                                                       41
Impact   on  Rural   Poverty   .................................                                                   42
Economic   Analysis   .......................................                                                      43
Standard   Conversion  Factor   ..............................                                                     43
Prices  of  Agricultural   Outputs   ..........................                                                    44
Prices   of  Agricultural   Inputs   ...........................                                                   44
Construction  Conversion  Factor   ..........................                                                      44
Land   Acquisition   and   Resettlement   Costs   .................                                                45
Project Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value  ...    45
Sensitivity  Analysis   ....................................                                                       46
Project   Risks   ...........................................                                                      47
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................                                                               48



- iv -
Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
T- 1      Scheme Area Characteristics
T- 2      Salient Features of the Project Dams
T- 3      Canal Network Features
T- 4      Girna and Mula Modernization Features
T- 5      Typical Climatic Data
T- 6      Typical Summary of Irrigation Requirements
T- 7      Summary of Road Network Features
T- 8      Cost Estimates Summary
T- 9      Cost Estimates for the Six Irrigation and Two
Modernization Schemes
T-10      Equipment Schedule
T-11      Annual Expenditure Schedule
T-12      Estimated Disbursement Schedule
T-13      Proposed Credit Allocation
T-14      Summary of Agricultural Production
T-15      Typical Financial Crop Budgets
T-16      Typical Economic Crop Budgets
T-17      Typical Farm Budgets
T-18      Cost Recovery
T-19      Estimates of Typical Project Rent-
T-20      Summary of Economic and Financial Prices
T-21      Cost of Inputs
T-22-27   Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
T-28      Cost Estimates for Land Development and Water Management
Training Program
CHARTS
C-1       Implementation Schedule
C-2       Organization Chart - Irrigation Department
REFERENCES
Maharashtra Major Irrigation (Composite) Project Feasibility
Studies. Water and Power Consultancy Services (WAPCOS),
March 1979.
MAPS
IBRD 14198  Project Location
14316 Upper Wardha and Upper Penganga Irrigation Schemes
14317 Girna and Mula Irrigation Schemes
14318 Krishna and Warna Irrigation Schemes
14319 Kukadi and Bhima Irrigation Schemes



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
VOLUME II - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Table of Contents
I. Introduction
II.  The State of Maharashtr.
III. The Agricultural Setting
IV.  The Irrigation Sector
V. Assessment of Maharashtra's Past Irrigation Program
VI. An Approach to Irrigation Planning under Uncertainty
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations
Copies of this Volume are available on request.



- vi --
li DlA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
VOLUME III - SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Annex  1  -   Project Briefs for the Eight Irrigation
Schemes
Annex  2  -   Climate and Hydrology
Annex  3  -   Dams
Annex  4  -   Roads
Annex  5  -   Equipment Lists
Annex  6  -   Procurement
Annex  7  -   Land Development and Water Management Training Program
Copies of this Volume are available on request.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
Background
1.01      Increased agricultural productivity and rural employment are major
objectives of India's Five-Year Plan (1978/79-1982/83). Accordingly, GOI's
agricultural and rural development strategy emphasizes: (i) the expansion of
the area under irrigation; and (ii) the concurrent implementation of support-
ing programs to optimize the use of land and water resources. Specifically,
the Draft Plan calls for an increase in the area served by large-scale irri-
gation projects of 1.6 million ha annually. It also calls for improved
irrigation standards over much of the 22.2 million ha already served by
large-scale irrigation projects, requiring, inter alia, modernization of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, better water regulation, improved
water distribution and on-farm development. To help implement this strategy,
the proposed operation (comprising the IDA-assisted project and the IFAD-
assisted component) would support the introduction of an integrated package
of technical and administrative measures designed to enhance irrigation
development in one of India's major states. The operation would help to
finance a substantial portion of the surface irrigation development program
of Maharashtra, i.e., the construction of six major surface irrigation
schemes (519,000 ha) and the rehabilitation of two existing schemes (150,000
ha). It was designed on the basis of a sector review of agricultural and
irrigation development in Maharashtra which appears in Volume II and is
summarized below.
Evolution of IDA's Lending Policy for Irrigation
1.02      The major theme in the Government of India's irrigation development
policy in the 1970s has been the need to make more efficient use of water and
thus enhance the benefits from investment in irrigation. The initial solution
envisaged by the Government was spelled out in the report of the Irrigation
Commission in 1972. The Commission identified the need for intensive command
area development as a corollary to investments in storage dams, diversion
weirs and conveyance channels typically delivering water to irrigation outlets
commanding areas of approximately 40 ha. The Commission recommended that
these command area development (CAD) works should be financed by farmers
themselves using agricultural credit for this purpose. The CAD works are
of two types: communal items below the outlet, also called Part I works,
mainly watercourses from the 40 ha outlets to the farm boundaries; and works
on the farmer's own fields such as land shaping, farm channels, etc.
1.03      The reason policymakers adopted the 40 ha (1 cusec) outlet as the
official termination point of the irrigation system was budgetary; and it was
believed that if irrigation water could be brought down to the 40 ha block
farmers would be more than willing to invest their own resources in both the
communal and on-farm works. IDA supported this concept and financed a number



- 2 -
of projects between 1972 and 1976. Progress on these projects, however,
has not been without problems. Except for the Rajasthan Canal Project,
implementation has been slow. The procedures required to design communal
irrigation channels and finance them through agricultural credit have proved
slow and cumbersome. Lengthy negotiations are required to get agreements
from groups of farmers to finance communal works and to provide rights of way;
and certification of land ownership (a prerequisite for getting long-term
credit for financing) often requires cadastral work and can lead to lengthy
litigation.
1.04      Various solutions to reduce the administrative and organizational
bottlenecks to CAD development have been explored. One obvious solution
was to transfer responsibility for construction of Part I works from farmers'
groups to the State and to finance those from the State budget. Starting
with the Orissa Medium Irrigation Project, Cr. 740-IN (appraised in October
1976), IDA has encouraged State authorities to take this course and recover
such costs from farmers through water charges or land taxes, after the works
have been completed.
1.05      The progress of land development works on farmers' fields, financed
wholly by the farmers (assisted with agricultural credit) has also been con-
strained. This has largely been a consequence of farmers' doubts as to
whether the Part I works would be completed and water would reach their
holdings on a regular basis.
1.06      In accordance with this experience, IDA now advocates irrigation
systems that include a fully lined and equipped, publicly constructed and
maintained conveyance system from the source of water to outlets serving
about 8 ha with a timely and reliable water supply close to the farmgate. 1/
The Karnataka Irrigation Project (Credit 788-IN, appraised in August 1977) is
the first major irrigation project in India in which these criteria were
accepted. The proposed lending operation in Maharashtra, described in this
report, tackles, for the first time on a Statewide basis, the major technical
and institutional bottlenecks to improved irrigation and water management.
Agriculture in Maharashtra
1.07      Mahrashtra covers an area of 30.8 million ha and has a population
of 59.3 million (1978). Although, by Indian standards, the State is highly
urbanized and industrialized, two-thirds of the labor force is employed in
agriculture. Since the early 1960s, agricultural growth has been sluggish
(0.7%  p.a.).  Manufacturing has expanded more rapidly (4.8% p.a.) but the
fastest growing industrial activities (chemicals, engineering, etc.) have
been capital-intensive. Much of the industrial growth and related economic
activities have been concentrated in Bombay and Pune--leading to urban con-
gestion and widening regional income disparities. Stagnating rural demand
for cotton cloth and other basic consumption items has reinforced the concen-
trated and capital-intensive pattern of industrial development. Thus, the
1/   Water is conveyed in a lined system to within 300 m of the farthest
farmgate.



- 3 -
Government of Maharashtra views increased farm productivity as a prerequisite
to a more rapid and balanced overall economic development for the State.
1.08      Agriculture contributes 30-35% of the State income and employs
some 65% of the labor force. About 18.3 million ha (59% of the area) is
under cultivation and there is little scope for increasing the net sown
area. The cropping intensity is among the lowest in India (107%) and cannot
be increased substantially without irrigation. The average farm size is
4.3 ha, with significant variations from district to district. According
to the 1970 census, 92% of holdings are farmer-owned, 5% are partly owned
and partly rented and 3% are wholly rented. Even in a normal year, about
50% of the rural population has incomes below the poverty line (US$75).
Cereals (sorghum, millets, paddy, wheat and pulses) account for 70% of the
gross cropped area, but yields are low and the State is deficient in food-
grains. In recent years, the rate of agricultural growth has picked up,
following a succession of favorable monsoons, and in response to GOM's
agricultural development programs. In particular, high yielding varieties
of kharif sorghum, paddy and wheat have gained wide acceptance. Other dynamic
aspects of recent agricultural performance have been the growth of irrigated
sugarcane and horticultural crops and the rapid increase in fertilizer con-
sumption. From 1960/61 to 1977/78 fertilizer use increased from 29,000 tons
of nutrients to 360,000 tons. Over half of the fertilizer is used in irri-
gated zones.
1.09      Present irrigation standards reflect the main objective of past
Government irrigation policy: to provide drought protection over extensive
areas planted to traditional foodgrain varieties. The acceptance of new
varieties, the spread of modern agricultural practices and the introduction
of more complex and diversified cropping patterns are putting new demands
on the irrigation system. More exacting irrigation design standards have
become necessary to meet the need for reliable water supplies, higher peak
deliveries and the more flexible system operations characteristic of modern
agriculture.
Irrigation in Maharashtra
1.10      The water resources potential of Maharashtra is limited by the
seasonality of the major rivers and the topography. Out of a gross cropped
area of 19.5 million ha, only 2.3 million ha is now irrigated, of which
1.2 million ha is from wells. This amounts to 11% of the gross cropped area,
less than half the national average. The present irrigation potential is
estimated at 6.3 million ha. Assuming improvements in irrigation efficiencies,
the ultimate potential could be as high as 8.9 million ha, including 2.7
million ha from groundwater sources. 1/ In turn, this calls for extensive
canal lining, for distribution systems reaching closer to the farmgates,
for improved operation of conveyance systems and for the systematic intro-
duction of rotational water supply to provide equitable access to water
for farmers in the command areas.
1/   This would require increases in irrigation efficiencies from the present
average 25-30% to about 50%.



- 4 -
1.11      Groundwater resources are significant, but easy opportunities for
well development have already been tapped. At Independence, some 0.5 million
ha was irrigated from wells. Groundwater development increased rapidly (4.2%
p.a.) during the 1950s, through sinking of new wells. During the 1960s and
early 1970s, the well-irrigated area has increased, with the replacement of
traditional lift methods by electrical and diesel pumps. Individual and co-
operative river lift irrigation schemes have also spread. These investments--
largely carried out by the private sector--have been a major engine of agri-
cultural growth in the State. IDA has contributed to these developments
through financing rural electrification and agricultural credit. 1/
1.12      Over the last three decades, GOM has invested the equivalent of
US$1.3 billion in major and medium surface irrigation schemes, adding 870,000
ha to the irrigation potential of the State. This implies a cost of US$1,490
per ha, a reasonable level by international comparison, but 40% higher than
the all-India average (US$860). Seasonality of river flows, lack of major
storage possibilities, difficult soil conditions and the GOM policy of spread-
ing the benefits of irrigation over wide areas help explain the relatively
high costs. Returns on this capital could be substantially enhanced by
correcting deficiencies in planning, design and construction standards.
This is the objective of the proposed operation.
1.13      One of the reasons for the low utilization of the irrigation poten-
tial is the present inadequate preparation of projects. Given these defi-
ciencies, considerable assistance in project preparation had to be provided
by IDA in connection with the proposed operation and suitable criteria had to
be established. The guidelines which emerged from project preparation
and which GOM will implement under the operation are grouped into the follow-
ing headings: planning criteria; design and construction standards; opera-
tional procedures; and agricultural development. Confirmation of these
guidelines were obtained during negotiations.
Project Formulation
1.14      The proposed operation is IDA's most ambitious effort yet in irriga-
tion lending in India. It supports GOI's efforts for a new irrigation devel-
opment strategy in one of India's major states. GOI and IDA chose Maharashtra
for the first major IDA-financed composite irrigation project because of the
State's strong administration, sound financial position and the fact that
one-quarter of the State's planned expenditure for the next five years will
be devoted to irrigation development. The six new schemes (one to be financed
by IFAD) and the two rehabilitation and modernization schemes that comprise
the composite project cover a substantial portion of the State's irrigation
1/   Credits 911-IN, 572-IN, 540-IN, 715-IN and 293-IN.



development program for the next five years. Planning, design, construction
and operational criteria agreed between GOI, GOM and IDA in the course of
project preparation and in negotiations of the credit for the project schemes
are expected to be adopted by GOM for the irrigation sector as a whole. As
some of the project schemes will be completed only in the 1980s and will not
reach full production until the turn of the century, design and operational
criteria currently agreed may need to be modified. GOM has agreed to set up
an adequately staffed monitoring and evaluation organization under the Command
Area Development Commissioner, which will keep under continuous review the
appropriateness of the planning and design parameters agreed with the Govern-
ment during negotiations. Essential feedback information for the planning of
subsequent stages of development will be provided from the evaluation of the
progress and performance of each scheme, and from the experimental and research
programs (that are included under the proposed project).
Planning Criteria
1.15      Volume II assesses the performance of the Maharashtra irrigation
sector and identifies deficiencies and needed improvements in planning.
Projects often have been planned in the past on the basis of inaccurate and
insufficient hydrological, topographical and soil data and on 'design cropping
patterns' which in most cases have not related to the agro-economic situation
in areas served by the projects. Moreover, once available data was evaluated
and the project report prepared, no subsequent revisions were made despite the
generation of additional data from observations and field measurements in the
course of project implementation that, in some cases, stretched over decades.
Thus, although cropping patterns have changed due to market forces and the
introduction of high yielding varieties, the theoretical water demand cal-
culated at the time of project design remained unchanged. Guidelines for
planning have now been revised in collaboration with IDA to ensure the early
generation of reliable data and the continual updating of such data.
Specifically, the guidelines involve:
(a)  Revision of existing procedures for collecting hydrological
data, including the continuous collection and evaluation of
monthly flow records and the introduction of more modern
reservoir operation studies.
(b)  Classification of command areas for irrigability (on the
basis of detailed topographies, soil surveys, drainage
surveys, etc.).
(c)  Preparation of periodic agro-economic surveys to identify
socio-economic changes in the scheme areas (e.g., labor and
farm power availability) which could influence cropping pat-
terns and water demand.
(d)  Assessment of project water requirements on a fortnightly basis.
This will be done for each scheme and will involve incorporating
the latest rainfall and streamflow records, measured conveyance
and distribution efficiencies and information feedback on actual
cropping patterns in the command area.



-6-
Design Standards
1.16      A number of major design deficiencies are found in existing irriga-
tion projects in Maharashtra. Generally, the distribution systems do not allow
proper control and regulation of the flows conveyed in the canal networks,
especially during the off-peak irrigation seasons. The minor distribution
systems are generally under-engineered in terms of the quality of the design
and in terms of the distance the water has to be conveyed by the farmers from
the Government outlet to their fields. The minor systems are aligned on the
basis of inadequate survey work. The design teams for the minor irrigation
system are under-staffed and the available manpower is both untrained and
insufficiently motivated for the type of work they have to carry out. Finally,
there is little feedback between performance in the field and the system
designs which engineers lay out in the office. Continuous experimentation
is required to develop solutions for specific design problems encountered on
the Deccan Plateau (lining of minor channels in black cotton soils, sizing
of outlets, etc.). Engineering design employed under the operation would be
consistent, inter alia, with the followng guidelines:
(a) Professional manpower available for the survey, planning and
design of the minor distribution system would be increased.
Requirements will be based initially on a sub-divisional work
program of about Rs 1.2 million per construction sub-division
per year. On the basis of actual field experience, profes-
sional manpower would be increased or decreased as required,
to meet the commitment to complete each block (excluding
land-shaping and levelling on the farmer's field) before
releasing water.
(b) The number of cross regulators in the main and branch (dis-
tributary) canals would be sufficient to allow the network
to be operated efficiently at one-half of design capacity.
(c)  Lining would be undertaken of the entire conveyance system
from the dam intake down to approximately 8 ha irrigation
blocks. The lining would be of high quality to reduce convey-
ance losses and maintenance requirements. The lined canals
would be operated by the Command! Area Development Authority
(CADA) and would provide rotational water supply for each
outlet at a pre-determined frequency based on seasonal water
allocations to the farmers. Unlined conveyance channels from
the, Government-operated outlets to the farmgates would be
constructed by the Government as part of the irrigation
infrastructure, but would be handed over, after completion,
to the farmers in the outlet coummand for operation and main-
tenance. The time frame under which the minor system would
be lined would be decided on the basis of experimentation.
One alternative would be to line the entire system during
construction; the other alternative, to construct an unlined
system from the minor to the 8 ha control point and return and
line the channels only after the system has been tried out and



- 7 -
has operated satisfactorily for about one year. (The
criterion for arriving at the 8 ha point is that the
distance on an unlined field channel to the farthest farm-
gate should normally not exceed 300 m.)
(d) Testing different techniques for conveying water in the
minor canals and within various sized outlet commands would
be carried out under a testing program already existing
in IDA-financed Jayakwadi Project as would be experiments
with modern irrigation technologies both in conveyance and
on the farmers' fields. The testing program would be
permanent and gradually extend both in area and in depth of
experimentation to cover all needs of the irrigation sector.
Funding of the testing program for the next five years would
be provided under the proposed project.
(e) Surface drainage would be constructed before chak commis-
sioning. The road implementation program would be
synchronized in line with the development of irrigation
blocks.
Construction Standards
1.17      Another feature of the Maharashtra irrigation sector is the
variable standards of construction employed. Design and construction
specifications are not always followed and consequently the quality of
construction work is unsatisfactory in some cases. resulting in the
rapid deterioration of structures and heavy outlays for maintenance
and rehabilitation. A number of improvements in construction standards
have been discussed with GOM, and it has been agreed that these will
be employed under the operation. Adoption of the improved standards
would be accompanied by the establishment of a quality control unit
in the Irrigation Department to ensure that construction specifications
are rigorously followed; and the introduction of a commissioning
period to ensure that each scheme financed under the project operates
satisfactorily. Specifically, the Government of Maharashtra has
confirmed that it would:
(a) establish a separate organization for technical evalua-
tion and quality control under a senior engineer in the
ID.  The new organization would report on the quality
of all construction undertaken under the operation.
(b) introduce a commissioning period of at least two years
before each scheme is officially handed over to CADA.
Operational Procedures
1.18      A number of major deficiencies in operational procedures now occur.
These include: less than optimal reservoir operation practices; insufficiently
trained and inadequate number of engineers to operate the projects; water



8 -
charges which act as a disincentive to the farmers in the effective use of the
water  vailable for irrigation; and inequitable distribution of available
irrigation water supplies. Reservoir operation routines are usually set when
the initial planning report is prepared and are not changed or amended even
though additional and more reliable data on reservoir inflows and irrigation
demand subsequently become available. The number of engineers assigned to
the operation of the systems is inadequate. They are unable to give necessary
attention to the distribution of water to consumers in accordance with actual
farm requirements, and to the equitable distribution of water among them.
Systems are operated in an unsophisticated and inefficient way. The start of
the irrigation season is set arbitrarily without considering the production
benefits which could result from a more sophisticated use of the available
water--through carryover storage, for example. In order to correct these
shortcomings, the Government of Maharashtra has agreed that:
(a) An appropriately staffed CADA organization would be set up
in each of the irrigation schemes to: operate and maintain
them; supervise the organization of the farmers; establish,
together with the extension services, rotational water
allocation schedules; and advise farmers on land development
and irrigation practices. The training of technical staff
necessary to operate the schemes effectively would be a
component of the operation.
(b) An initial management provision would be made of one appro-
priately trained junior engineer for approximately 1,500 ha
of irrigated land, who would be assisted by trained matric-
ulates. These staffing schedules are preliminary, and would
be used until sufficient evidence is accumulated from the
operation of the schemes to justify changing them.
(c) Water allocation practices would be changed to an allocation
of available water resources on a per hectare basis (per
season) in all schemes. The duration of permissible irri-
gation intervals in the various seasons and for the various
crop possibilities would be defined; and a system of rota-
tional water supply (RWS) below the 8 ha outlet would be
introduced in accordance with a fixed water allocation
schedule for each irrigation season. The Government of
Maharashtra has successfully introduced an RWS system in
areas commanded by the Girna scheme; this sytem will be
improved and extended to cover all blocks commanded in the
schemes.
(d)  The kharif irrigation season would be started on June 1, and
appropriate arrangements made for carry-over storage in the
scheme reservoirs to enable pre-monsoon irrigation.
(e)  Water charges presently in force in the operation's areas
would be revised in order to promote the use of kharif
irrigation.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND PRESENT DEVELOPMENT
General
2.01      This report deals with six on-going irrigation schemes (Bhima,
Kukadi, Warna and Krishna in the Krishna River basin and Upper Penganga and
Upper Wardha in the Godavari River basin) and the rehabilitation and modern-
ization of two existing schemes (Mula and Girna in the Godavari and Tapi
basins). Financing of this operation is shared between IDA and IFAD, the
latter agency financing works on the completion of the Bhima scheme only.
All eight schemes were prepared and appraised together by IDA, which acted
as the agency for IFAD on the Bhima scheme. All agreements on technical
standards and organizational arrangements are common to all eight schemes.
In order to distinguish between the IDA- and the IFAD-financed components,
the word 'project' refers to the IDA-financed component (all schemes exclud-
ing Bhima), while the word 'operation' refers to the combined IDA and IFAD
components.
2.02      All eight schemes are located in the drought-prone Deccan plateau in
the central and eastern parts of Maharashtra (Map 14198). With the prevailing
conditions of low and uncertain rainfall, farming is restricted largely to
subsistence foodgrain and fodder crops, and in some parts, to low-yielding
rainfed cotton; present cropping patterns and production are described in para
5.01. Due to the present low level of production, most of the project areas
are economically backward but have large, underutilized land, water and human
resources. The general characteristics of the irrigation schemes are sum-
marized in Table T-1 and their detailed features are described in Volume III.
Public Services
2.03      The scheme areas are served by main road and rail links forming
part of the Statewide network and are connected to the all-India system.
The main roads link the project areas to the industrial and commercial centers
of Bombay, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nasik, and to Delhi, Calcutta,
Hyderabad and Bangalore beyond the State boundaries. Rural farm-to-market
roads inside the scheme areas are generally inadequate for the more intensive
and diversified agricultural production from year-round irrigation development.
Under the operation, the network would be extended and raised to all-weather
standards. Small market centers are planned under an ongoing GOM program to
meet expected levels of marketable surplus resulting from the planned irriga-
tion development. Electric power is available in all the scheme areas and the
GOM has an ongoing program of rural electrification. Domestic water supplies
are largely restricted to the towns; public health services, although wide-
spread and backed by a network of health centers and hospitals, will need
strengthening as more intensive economic development takes place. Public
administration is structured around the elective district level authority
(Zilla Parishad) and the village council (Panchayat). For agricultural and
rural development purposes each district is divided into a number of devel-
opment blocks. Existing farm support services in the blocks are largely
geared to rainfed farming. They would be strengthened under the operation
(paras 4.16 et. seq.)



- 10 -
Climate, Soils and Topography
2.04      The regional agro-climatic features are described in Volume II.
Weather patterns are dominated by erratic rainfall: the annual average is
about 600-800 mm, with four-fifths occurring in the warm July through September
monsoon season. The winter (October-March) period is dry and relatively mild,
while the summer (April-June) is intensely hot. The climate of the scheme
areas is described in Table T-5. Under ccntrolled moisture conditions pro-
vided by irrigation and drainage, the climate can support crops such as
sorghum, wheat, maize, rice, sugarcane, vegetables, cotton and groundnuts.
The topography is gentle and rolling, withL low ridges and interspersed depres-
sions (nallas) which form natural drainage ways. The soils, which range from
shallow to deep clay loam soils, overlying basalt rock, are moderately easy
to develop and can sustain good crops when adequate drainage is provided and
appropriate land development is carried out.
Population and Land Holdings
2.05      The 3.2 million population of the scheme areas is largely rural,
mostly living in about 1,300 villages. Under rainfed conditions, average
land holdings vary between 2.0 ha and 7.5 ha. Typically, about 80% of the
land is owner-operated and 20% rented. The 1976 Land Ceiling Act restricts
landholdings that are year-round irrigated to maxima of between 7.2 ha and
14.4 ha depending on family size. Considerable underemployment exists in
these areas, due to low agricultural productivity. Employment is expected
to improve considerably under the operation.
Existing Irrigation Development
2.06      Private sector and cooperatively owned irrigation facilities serve
about 20,000 ha, dispersed throughout the scheme areas. In addition, a rela-
tively large compact block of about 19,000 ha of rice, sugarcane and other
perennial and seasonal cash crops is irrigated by individual small-scale river
pump lifts and wells in the Warna Irrigation Scheme area. These minor irri-
gation developments would be largely absorbed in the canal service areas
constructed under the operation.
2.07      The six new irrigation schemes would ultimately serve 620,000 ha.
They have been under construction for between 5 and 10 years; but so far
provide only 8,000 ha with irrigation. The strategy of GOM has, in the past,
concentrated implementation and budgetary resources on the construction of the
major dam and canal infrastructure. During the period of the operation
(1979-84) the emphasis would progressively shift to more intensive develop-
ment of the areas commanded by this infrastructure.
Girna and Mula Irrigation Schemes
2.08      The Girna and Mula irrigation schemes are major schemes (now in ser-
vice) that were planned and constructed over a long period and subsequently
extended to cover additional areas. The Girna scheme, originally commissioned
in S969/70, was planned to irrigate 57,200 ha, but is now being extended to
serve an additional 12,140 ha area. The two schemes were built to standards



- 11 -
which are increasingly becoming outmoded; the irrigation service provided
is less than originally planned and considerably less than could be achieved
if the schemes were rehabilitated and modernized to operate at higher levels
of conveyance and distribution efficiencies. In response to increasing farmer
demand for better irrigation service, GOM has recently commenced system
upgrading and has introduced better water use management in the Girna scheme.
This includes reduction of the size of the outlet commands from about 300 ha
to 40 ha by extending the GOM scheme; introduction of rotational water supply
(RWS); and, in collaboration with beneficiaries, more systematic field channel
maintenance. The Mula scheme, which will ultimately serve 79,300 ha, requires
a similar rehabilitation of physical facilities and the introduction of
improved operational and maintenance procedures.
III. THE PROJECT
Scope of the Operation
3.01      The operation would assist the continued construction of six major
irrigation schemes (Bhima, Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Warhda, Upper Penganga and
Warna projects), during the five year period starting from October 1979 through
September 1984, together with the partial modernization of the existing Girna
and Mula schemes. It would construct elements of dams, canals and command
area roads and lead to the irrigation of some 147,000 ha during the five-year
period. The activities under this operation would advance completion of the
infrastructure needed for the 620,000 ha commanded by the six new schemes.
During the implementation period infrastructural development of the six
schemes would progress as follows:
Table 3.1: Present (October 1979) Status of Infrastructural Develop-
ment of the Six Ongoing Schemes, and Expected Status at
the End of Project Period (October 1984) (% Completed)
Distribution
Dams          Major Canals         System            Roads
1979    1984 /a   1979    1984 /a  1979   1984 /a  1979   1984 /a
Bhima          83       100        37      72        16      57        0 /b   50
Krishna         55      100        26      56        23      64        0       53
Kukadi          31       81        24      54        11      54        0      37
U. Penganga    37        72         9      38         0       11       0      20
U. Wardha       11       96         2      33         0      10        0      18
Warna           31       89         1      25         0        8       0       14
/a   From beginning of construction through October 1984.
/b   The existing roads in the project areas do not meet the required
standards.



- 12 -
Planning, design, construction and operation of the schemes would be in
accordance with criteria and standards outlined in para 1.15 through 1.18. A
flexible approach to planning and design would be employed whereby experience
of the innovations introduced at the start of the implementation period would
be evaluated by the end of 1983 and appropriate modifications introduced for
the succeeding implementation cycle. It is believed that changes introduced
as a result of this process would not signiLficantly alter the ultimate scope
of the operation.
Water Supply and Demand
3.02      The water supply for the six new schemes is obtained from rainfall
and from the Godavari and Krishna rivers and from the Tapi River for the Girna
irrigation scheme. Water allocations are iLn accordance with the current
interstate water-sharing agreements for the three rivers. The hydrological
aspects of the schemes are outlined in Annex 2, Volume III. Scheme feasibility
studies are based on 30-year streamflow records and take in account upstream,
domestic and industrial water uses, effectiLve rainfall, reservoir inflows,
evaporation and spills and estimated irrigation system losses together with
crop water requirements (derived by the modified Penman method) for the annual
cropping patterns expected to be adopted. Reservoir operation studies were
conducted to define the water balances and the individual monthly shortages
which would have occurred over a 30-year period. For the Bhima, Krishna,
Kukadi and Warna schemes these shortages are less than 10% of demand on the
average. They are acceptable and have no significant effect on the benefits
from these schemes.
3.03      For the Upper Penganga and Upper Wardha schemes, reservoir operation
studies and analyses were made to establish the irrigated cropping patterns
in consonance with the reservoir seasonal inflows. The operating rules for
this type of reservoir management include seasonal decision points for sequen-
tial cropping patterns on the basis of the water available in storage (para
4.14). Results of these studies showed that on both irrigation schemes the
water supply would sustain cropping patterns and levels of agricultural
production which would make the schemes economically viable.
3.04      River gauging check measurements were undertaken during project
preparation which indicate that the streamflow values used in the analysis
are a conservative estimate of the water resources available. The operation
would include an expanded and improved gauging program to produce better
planning data for future development.
3.05      Flood inflow studies show that a:l reservoirs are safe against
overtopping and excessive spillway damage. These studies took account of
maximum design storms, according to improved criteria now adopted by the GOI
Central Water Commission. They would be continuously updated for use by the
Dam Review Panel established under the operation. The water supplied to the
six schemes is of good quality and suitabl,e for sustained irrigation. Silt
accumulation studies showed that the effective life of all scheme reservoirs
would far exceed the period selected for e,conomic analysis.



- 13 -
3.06      Groundwater development has a limited but increasingly important
role in the development of these schemes. Economic analyses did not take
account of the potential groundwater resource because confirmatory quantita-
tive data still has to be developed by the Groundwater Surveys and Development
agency of Maharashtra. As the canal irrigated areas are increased spatially,
and year-round irrigation deliveries are made, the infiltration from return
flows is likely to sustain an increase of at least 70% in utilizable ground-
water. This development would be particularly important for irrigation of
additional hot season cash crops and high water demand perennials.
Detailed Description
3.07      The IDA project components which are described in detail for each
individual irrigation scheme in Volume III can be summarized as follows:
(a)  Construction work on 11 dams, construction of about 900 km
of main and branch canals together with construction of
distribution canals (down to the farmgate); drains to serve
an area of 95,000 ha; and about 620 km of new and improved
link roads to serve an area of 85,500 ha in the five new
irrigation schemes. (The IFAD-financed Bhima scheme includes
construction of a dam, 175 km of main and branch canals to
serve an area of 52,000 ha and 301 km of roads to cover an
area of 45,000 ha);
(b)  Modernization of canals and drains in the Mula and Girna
irrigation schemes;
(c)  Strengthening of the CAD organization, including reorganiza-
tion of agricultural extension and applied research and
water management services and operation and maintenance on
all eight schemes (para 4.09);
(d)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment for project con-
struction and for operation and maintenance;
(e)  Expansion of a GOM pilot water management program
(paras 4.12 and 4.13);
(f)  Project monitoring and evaluation (para 4.11); and
(g)  Implementation of a training program for land develop-
ment and water management specialists (para 4.10).
3.08      Dams.  The twelve dams included in the operation are:  Ujjani
(Bhima); Dhom and Kanher (Krishna); Dimbhe, Manikdon, Wadaj, Pimpalgaon Joge
and Yedgaon (Kukadi); Isapur and Sapli (Upper Penganga); Simbhora (Upper
Wardha); and Chandol (Warna). The dams will raise river levels to a suffi-
cient height to divert water into the main irrigation canals and store surplus
monsoon inflows during July through September for later release during the
winter and hot weather seasons. The design and construction methods of the



- 14 -
twelve dams included in the operation have been reviewed by GOI and IDA con-
sultants and found adequate from the standpoint of structural stability,
functional efficiency and safety. The dams are comprised of: earth-fill
embanikments with clay cores to impermeable bedrock; masonry and mass concrete
overflow spillway sections, provided with drainage galleries and fitted with
radial sector steel gates operable by both electric-powered and manual lift-
ing mechanisms. Salient features of the dams are shown in Table T-2 and
described in detail in Volume III (Annex 3 for dam engineering and construc-
tion, and Annex 2 for design inflow floods). The GOM has established a
special independent panel of experts to ensure that ongoing and future dam
engineering and construction conforms to good engineering practices, with
special reference to dam safety, and would act on the recommendations of
this panel (para 4.06).
3.09      Irrigation Canal Networks.  The physical features of canal networks
in the six irrigation schemes are summarized in Table T-3 and the main features
of the Girna and Mula modernization are given in Table T-4; they are described
in detail in Volume III. The irrigation conveyance system is conventionally
categorized in India as: main canals, with associated branch canals, leading
from the storage and diversion dams. These canals convey water to the distri-
butary and minor canals which distribute uwater to the various segments of the
irrigation service ("command") area. Typically, a distributary canal commands
1,500 ha of land through individual minors which serve 200 ha blocks of land
divided into 40 ha mini-command areas (chaks). The turnout to the chak is the
farthest point of Irrigation Department (ID) responsibility and control.
Traditionally, between this 40 ha turnout point and the individual farmgate,
the sub-minor distribution (and drainage) system has been developed as part of
the land development process and financed by the beneficiaries. This was an
exceedingly slow process as a large number of farmers had to be coerced to
finance these communal water distribution channels. Canals are of trapezoidal
cross-section, constructed with earthen emLbankments in earth or rock. Main
and branch canals are usually located on the principal contour lines running
along the river valley sides and distributaries are located on the cross
ridges.  Under present COM practice, canals are lined iin precast3or in situ
concrete) when their conveyance capacity exceeds 2.8 m /s (100 ft /s); under
the IDA-assisted Maharashtra (Jayakwadi) ]:rrigation Project (Cr.736-IN, 1977)
GOM gave an assurance that it would line the canal system to the chak turnout
level. Canals are equipped with control devices including head regulators,
measuring flumes, aqueducts, under-drainage siphons, falls, turnouts, escapes,
cross regulators and drain-off valves. At. present, formal land drainage works
are limited, in the typical undulating topography (para 2.04), to main channels
linking the chak outfall with the natural nalla.
3.10      Revision of Design Standards for the Canal Networks.  Under the
proposed operation, major changes would bea introduced in the existing GOM design
standards. To provide modern irrigation service and effective land drainage,
the present planning, design and construction criteria require modification
and upgrading.  During project preparation the GOM gave assurances that it



- 15 -
would: size the distribution canals for rotational water supply (RWS) 1/;
upgrade concrete technology and earthwork compaction; test, on project scale,
alternative types of canal lining; reduce the size of the chaks from the
present 40 ha to 8 ha; line all canals down to the 8 ha level; provide addi-
tional control structures to permit full irrigation deliveries when flows are
less than 50% of capacity; increase the number of dewatering structures in the
canals to facilitate maintenance; design the cross drainage structures to new
criteria; locate and test intermediate storage reservoirs to provide additional
capacity to meet the peak water requirements of crops that may be grown in the
future 2/; complete on behalf of the farmers the irrigation channels from the
8 ha outlet down to the farmgate 3/; provide canal-side roads and paths for
operation and maintenance (O&M); and install radio communication links for
the canal operation field organization. In addition, land drainage would be
tackled systematically; for this, the main drainage network would be planned
and constructed as part of the GOM-financed infrastructure, commencing imme-
diately with the Bhima irrigation scheme where compact blocks of heavy soils
on flat topography require special drainage treatment. Importantly, each
distributary command area would be completely commissioned (all irrigation,
drainage and road works completed) before being handed over for O&M from the
Irrigation Department to the Command Area Development Authority (CADA). These
improved design and implementation criteria will be evaluated and modified
as required, following the three-year review in 1983 of the progress of the
operation.
3.11      Road Networks.  In the past, road programs in the irrigation areas
have not been specifically scheduled in conjunction with canal implementation
planning. Consequently, many existing irrigation areas have had insufficient
road infrastructure, from the commencement of water deliveries, for the rapid,
sustained and diversified agricultural production possible under modern year-
round irrigation. During project preparation the GOM gave assurances that
it would include the necessary all-weather roads and aim to construct these in
each distributary canal block at least one year prior to canal construction.
Roads in new areas being fully developed under the operation would be given
first priority and any existing backlog of road requirements would be under-
taken only as and when spare implementation capacity becomes available. The
road program of the operation, the principal features of which are outlined
in Table T-7, would comprise improvements to about 803 km of rural roads,
reconstruction of about 483 km of roads and tracks and construction of about
1/   A system of water delivery to each farmer of a predetermined quantity
of water at a fixed time, usually on the same day each week. The de-
tails of the rotation may vary from area to area and by season. Each
farmer would receive a fixed allocation per ha of his holding.
2/   The cropping patterns of the future will tend progressingly towards
a higher proportion of high value crops, such as sugarcane, spices,
fruits, vegetables and groundnuts; these crops are sensitive to the
timing and frequency of water applications (see Vol. II, para 3.04).
3/   For GOM recovery procedures, see para 5.03.



- 16 -
31 kmi o. new roads. Pla-ning criteria for the roads would require that:
(a) all parts of the irrigated areas would be brought within about 3 km of
an all-weather road; (b) existing alignments would be utilized whenever tech-
nically and economically appropriate; (c) village centers would as far as
possible be bypassed to avoid congestion. The roads would be planned and
constructed to Indian Road Congress standards which provide for right-of-way,
formation and pavement minimum widths of 18 m, 7.5 m, and 3.7 m, respectively.
All roads would be constructed in water-bound macadam with murrum hard
shoulders while main roads leading to market centers would in addition have
black top surfacing. Many of the roads are to be constructed in black cotton
soils which have very low bearing capacities when wet (CBR values of 1-3%).
Over the past twenty years, the use of synthetic fabric, to provide a separat-
ing layer between road pavement and subbase, has been gaining popularity with
engineers. The operation would include the construction of experimental
lengths of road using this material and for monitoring performance as compared
with traditional methods of construction. A detailed description of the road
program for the combined IDA/IFAD operation is given in Volume III, Annex 4.
The detailed road layouts have been finalized with GOM. Roads would be con-
structed according to the implementation and expenditure schedules (Table T-7
and Annex 4) and road maintenance would be supervised by PW&HD, whether
undertaken by their own staff or by ZP units.
3.12      Girna and Mula Irrigation Schemes Modernization.  Under the project,
the GOM will upgrade these schemes, using technology suitable for projects
already in service, where interruption of irrigation deliveries must be kept
to a minimum. Two levels of upgrading would be tested and evaluated during
the implementation period to determine the resulting benefits. At Girna, a
part of the Jamda Left Bank Canal and Lower Girna Canal (LGC) command area,
canal and road facilities would be modified and rehabilitated to standards
as far as possible consistent with those proposed for the six new irrigation
schemes. At Mula, the emphasis would be on improved operation and maintenance
(O&M) procedures with the minimal rehabilitation works necessary to bring the
scheme to a reasonably sound operational lievel. Both schemes would be pro-
vided with equipment and vehicles, radio communication facilities, and resi-
dential buildings, offices and stores essential for O&M. The Girna civil
works would comprise: (a) restoration of LGC lining; (b) lining of Parola
Branch and Jamda Left Bank canals, additional structures for canal service
roads and tracks; (c) about 27 km of command area roads; (d) Branch II LGC
improvements including partial lining of the Jalad and Amalgar distributaries;
and (e) land drainage improvements. The MHula civil works would be limited to
some 25 km of road improvement and new construction, some main canal lining
restoration and drainage and field channel improvement. In order to complete
the road networks necessary to serve the modernization blocks adequately, the
GOM will carry out improvements to existing main roads in phase with the
project road programs. The estimated costs of these additional works (which
are not included in the project) are Rs 3.9 M and Rs 2.4 M, respectively.
Construction Methods
3.13      Canal and dam foundation excavation, canal and road embankment con-
str ction, and elements of land shaping are mostly implemented by hand labor
at present. Construction under the operation would continue to be largely



- 17 -
labor-intensive. A review, undertaken during project preparation, indicated
that sufficient labor would be available to complete project construction.
The GOM's Employment Guarantee Scheme (EGS) 1/ provides that unemployed appli-
cants be hired for public works. The EGS has been reviewed by IDA and found
to be economically efficient, financially sound and socially important. EGS
workers are recruited or organized in small groups and, in practice, remun-
erated on a measured-work basis. GOM provides simple health services and
distributes basic foodstuffs (at controlled prices) at the major EGS work
sites. The EGS would provide at least one quarter of the labor force required
for the operation and the balance would be mobilized by contractors. Deep
rock excavation by manual labor is assisted by the ID's heavy earthmoving
equipment which is also deployed selectively on canal and dam embankments
where quality control is essential. Concrete work is carried out by contract.
Under the operation the ID would introduce more systematic compaction of
embankments and greatly improve concrete technology for canal lining. To
sustain a high standard of construction, the ID would establish a special
Quality Control Unit (para 4.05).
Implementation Schedule
3.14      The operation would be implemented over five years between October
1979 and 1984, according to the implementation schedule shown on Chart C-1.
The construction program would largely complete most of the scheme dams and
substantial lengths of the major canals. The first phase of Girna and Mula
modernization would also be completed within the five-year period. The
irrigation distribution system to the farmgate and the road and drainage
networks would be systematically completed in step with the construction of
the major network.
3.15      In the past, utilization of the water has been slow, and less than
the potential available. This was due largely to a combination of unreliable
and incomplete minor canal networks and the lack of a water management orga-
nization to promote farmers' response. Under the operation, these constraints
would be reduced by integrated development and management of each distributary
canal block as they are completed. Because such systematic block development
would require selection and training of additional professional personnel and
specialized training of existing staff, the integrated block development
program is limited to 147,000 ha during the next five years. During 1979-84
period, sufficient staff would be trained to expand the block development
program to the remaining 473,000 ha in the six schemes to be commissioned
between 1984 and about 1990.
3.16      The sequence of implementation in each distributary canal block of
1,500 ha would be: alignment surveys for distributary canals and farm link
roads; planning and construction of roads (road works would be completed at
1/   See Report on the Employment Guarantee Scheme of Maharashtra - India.
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, India Division, S. Asia Country Programs Dept.,
IBRD, June 1978.



- 18 -
least cae year in advance); planning and construction of distributary and
minor canals with concurrent detailed topographic survey, planning and con-
struction of the subminor canals down to the farmgate; construction of build-
ings and a radio communication system for the canal management and agricul-
tural extension staff; and completion of lining of canals down to the 8 ha
level after 12 months operation. For about 50% of the blocks, lining to
the 8 ha level will be done when the canals are initially constructed. The
performance of the reaches (lined during the initial construction of the
networks) will be compared with other construction alternatives.
Land Aquisition and Resettlement
3.17      The operation includes the resettling of about 20,000 families from
villages submerged by the project reservoirs. The affected people are given
agricultural land in the project area which GOM has acquired, or appropriated
as surplus under the Land Ceiling Act. GOM has fixed a minimum holding size,
regardless of how much land each family previously owned. New village sites
are fixed in consultation with the displaced families, and amenities such as
water and electricity supply, roads, school and community buildings are also
included in the cost of the operation.
No. of Villages    Cultivable Land
Affected          Submerged (ha)
Bhima                             80             31,170
Krishna                           64               6,534
Kukadi                            69               8,860
Upper Penganga                    61              20,645
Upper Wardha                      64               9,677
Warna                             24               7,527
362              84,413 /a
/a The relatively large area of submergence in relation to the
areas put under irrigation is a result of the flat topography
at the storage sites, and also includes lands lost to the
distribution network.
Cost Estimates
3.18      The total cost of the eight scheimes, from inception to completion,
is US$1,269.0 M. Total costs of the operation (including Bhima) to be executed
between 1979 and 1984 amount to US$551.0 M net of taxes and duties (which are
negligible). This amount includes a foreign exchange cost of about $84.9 M or
some 15% of total cost. Detailed costs of all civil works have been updated
to reflect 1979 contract prices. Administration, engineering and design are
estimated at 14% of the base costs. A 15% provision for physical contingen-
cies has been made. Anticipated price increases are estimated at about 25% of
base costs in accordance with local inflation rates of 7% annually for civil
works and equipment and 5% for engineering and administration costs. Cost
est-mates are detailed in Tables T-8 and T-9 and summarized below for both
components of the operation (IDA and IFAD):



- 19 -
IDA PROJECT
Local  Foreign  Total  % Base Cost
-----US$ Million-----
Dams and Major Canals                     144.1   41.8    185.9        58.1
Distribution Canals and
Land Drainage                            19.2    3.1      22.3        7.0
Roads                                      11.8    2.1       13.9       4.3
Equipment, Buildings                        2.9    0.7       3.6        1.2
Training, Research and Monitoring           4.8    0.6       5.4        1.7
Land Acquisition                           36.1      -      36.1       11.3
Modernization Girna & Mula                  7.3    1.3        8.6       2.7
Engineering and Administration             43.9      -      43.9       13.7
Base Cost                            270.1   49.6    319.7       100.0
Physical Contingencies                     40.6    7.1       47.7
Expected Price Increases                   69.6   14.0      83.6
Total Project Costs                  380.3   70.7    451.0
BHIMA COMPONENT (IFAD-FINANCED)
% Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
---- US$ Million ----
Dam and Major Canals                       29.2      5.1    35.3      69
Distribution Canals and Land Drainage   10.9         1.5    11.4      16
Roads                                       5.5      0.9      6.4      9
Equipment, Buildings                        1.6      0.3      1.9      3
Land Acquisition                            6.4       -       6.4      9
Engineering & Administration                8.9      1.6    10.5      14
Base Cost                                  62.5      9.4    71.3    100
Physical Contingencies                      9.5      1.6    11.1
Expected Price Increases                   13.8      2.4    16.2
Total Cost                            85.8    14.2   100.0
Financing Plan
3.19      The project would be assisted by IDA, and the Bhima scheme by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The financing plan
proposed is shown below:
US$ Million
Local Financing (GOI & GOM)                          291.0
IDA Credit                                           210.0
IFAD Financing of Bhima Irrigation Scheme             50.0
Total Cost of the Operation               551.0



- 20 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$210.0 M would finance foreign exchange of
US$70.7 M and US$139.3 M in local costs or about 47% of project costs. The
GOM would finance its contribution of US$291.0 M from its development budget.
The IFAD is expected to finance US$50.0 M or 50% of the project elements of
the Bhima component during the period of the IFAD fiscal years 1979-84 under
terms and conditions agreed between IFAD and the GOI (which would incorporate
the same planning, design, construction and operation criteria that have been
established for the schemes of the proposed IDA project). The IDA and IFAD
credits would be made to the GOI.  An agreement has been obtained from the GOI
that the proceeds of the credits would be channeled to the GOM in accordance
with the standard arrangements for develoynent assistance to the States of
India. An agreement has been obtained from the GOM that it would (i) provide
sufficient funds to execute the project in. accordance with the implementation
schedule for the five-year period of project implementation (Chart C-1) and;
(ii) after the project credit has been disbursed, complete the five irrigation
schemes (Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Penganga, Upper Wardha and Warna) as soon as
technically and financially feasible.
Budgetary Implications
3.20       This operation constitutes about two-fifths of the Government of
Maharashtra's major and medium irrigation development plan for the period
1978/79 through 1983/84. The total anticipated expenditure on major and
medium irrigation development is US$1.2 billion over the next five years (net
of price contingencies). Although expenditure at this level will require an
increased proportion of Plan expenditure devoted to irrigation (21-22% of the
total Plan as opposed to the 15-17% devoted in the past Plan), the increase
corresponds to the increased priority the GOM and the GOI give to irrigation
development. The expected growth of Maharashtra's economy and the expected
growth in the sources of State Government revenues, transfers from the Center
and proceeds from external assistance and other loans, are such that the
Government of Maharashtra will be able to finance Plan expenditure envisaged
over the next five years, including that for irrigation development.
Procurement
3.21       Civil Works in the Project amounit to approximately US$203 M
excluding contingencies, price increases, engineering and administration
costs. Of this, US$113 M or 56% of the c:ivil works would be let after ICB;
US$67 M or 33% would be let after LCB, US$10 M or 5% would be let to piecework
contracts; US$11 M or 5% would be carried out by GOM's Employment Guarantee
Scheme; and the remaining US$2 M or 1%,would be implemented by GOM's Mecha-
nical Department (for details see Annex 6, Volume III).
(a)  ICB Contracts for Dams and Main Canal Works:  US$113 M
Work for dams and main canals tendered after the appraisal
mission of June 1979 would be in accordance with IDA-approved
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.  However,
to encourage participation of smaller Indian contractors,
tenders will be designed to allow tendering on individual



- 21 -
schedules. Eligible Indian contractors will be entitled to
a 7.5% preference. Tender documents will specify the
requirements for eligibility and the manner of its
application.
(b) LCB Contracts for Dams and Main Canal Works: US$35 M.
Construction of dams and the main canals is in progress
and some works have been awarded under multi-year con-
tracts after Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). The pro-
curement procedures utilized for these fourteen contracts
have been reviewed by the Association and three have been
found acceptable for financing under the project (see
Annex 6, Volume III). These three contracts were let after
the pre-appraisal mission identified them as components of
the project and will have approximately US$4 M worth of
works outstanding on October 1, 1979.
(c) Other LCB Contracts: US$32 M. Works, which are individually
small, scattered over a large area and carried out inter-
mittently as determined by weather conditions and agricul-
tural activities, will be carried out after LCB (US$32 M).
Invitation for LCB works would be adequately advertised and
the procedures to be followed would be in accordance with
published GOM standards. All procurement action will be
reviewed by the Association; however, in addition, US$25 of
this US$32 LCB procurement will be subject to full pre-action
review by IDA.
(d) Non-ICB/LCB Works: US$23 M. These works will also be scattered;
they are individually small and their implementation will be
governed by weather and agricultural conditions. Because of
these and other technical constraints there would be a general
lack of competition which would make these works impractical
for tendering. GOM Employment Guarantee Scheme will be
utilized for US$11 M worth of work; piecework contracts for
US$10 M will be obtained; and the remaining US$2 M of
scattered high bank canal earth work requiring heavy equip-
ment will be carried out by GOM's Mechanical Department.
The GOM is of the opinion that the Mechanical Organization of the Irrigation
Department (MD/ID) would execute certain major earth works (e.g., dams and
high embankment) more economically than private contractors 1/. GOM has
designated four earth dams in the project, worth US$47 M (or 25% of the
civil works) and has requested IDA to allow MD/ID to execute these dams. IDA
has requested GOM to verify that this procedure is the least-cost solution by
1/   These works appear for the moment in the category of ICB for Dams and
Main Canal Works.



- 22 -
solicifing ICB on one of the four dams and comparing the results with the cost
of doing the works by force account. IDA will review the tendering procedures
and reserves the right to audit their force account calculations prior to
makinUg a decision. The results of this comparison will not be known until
November 1979, shortly after the tenders are due to be received. 1/
3.22      The Central Water Commission of GOI has developed models of ICB
and LCB contract documents and procedures for works procurement that have
been approved by the Association. The GOM has adopted these models and
procedures and will use them for procurement of works under the project.
3.23      Equipment and Vehicles:  approximately US$25 M.  All heavy equip-
ment and instrumentation (US$11 M) would be procured after ICB procedures.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the
prevailing customs duty, if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Light equipment and vehicles (US$14 M) would
be procured after LCB procedures. The equipment and vehicles will be conven-
iently grouped to promote efficiency and attract competition; however, awards
will also be accepted on individual schedules to attract small manufacturers.
Adequate competition can be solicited among Indian firms for the light equip-
ment and vehicles. Because of existing servicing and spare part supply
facilities, there are considerable benefits to be derived from procuring local
models.
Disbursements
3.24      Disbursement would be made for:  (a) 100% of the foreign expenditure
of directly imported equipment; (b) 100% of the ex-factory price or 70% of
expenditures for equipme-at procured locally; (c) 60% on average of expendi-
tures for civil works (70% for expenditures incurred up to March 31, 1983--
which marks the end of the current Five Year Plan--and 50% thereafter).
For all other categories (pilot water management, training, research, monitor-
ing and evaluatioh, incremental establishment for O&M) disbursement would be
against full cost. Disbursements for departmental work and for payments of
less than Rs 100,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 50,000 for equipment
and vehicles would be made against certificates of expenditure. Supporting
documents for these payments would be retained by GOM and made available for
inspection by IDA's during review missions. A schedule of estimated expendi-
tures, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit, and an annual
disbursement schedule are presented in the attached tables (Tables T-l1, T-12,
T-13).
Accounts and Audits
3.25      The Irrigation Department (ID) would be subject to normal Govern-
ment control and auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Agreements
have been reached with GOM that it would: (i) maintain separate accounts
on project expenditure; (ii) ensure that these accounts would be audited
1/   If IDA agrees to GOM's request, the ICB category will be reduced to
US$66 M.



- 23 -
annually by the State Auditors; (iii) submit audit summaries to IDA within 12
months from the end of each fiscal year together with the auditors' reports;
and (iv) would make complete accounts and financial statements available
for inspection by IDA.
Environmental Effects of the Project
3.26      An agreement has been reached that GOM would take all measures
considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other water-
related diseases in the project area. With improved drainage and lining of
the distribution network, seasonal waterlogging would be reduced.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Planning and Construction
4.01      The Irrigation Department (ID) is responsible for the planning,
survey, design and construction supervision of the dams, canal networks down
to the outlets to the chaks and the main drainage system. It also plans and
constructs the buildings used by the Command Area Development Authorities'
(CADA) canal operation and maintenance personnel. The ID designs the dams and
major civil engineering structures in a Central Design Organization (CDO).
The balance of the canal survey, planning and design for works down to the
chak outlet is undertaken by the ID field units (circles) organized under the
regional Chief Engineers. The ID field units also supervise construction
and are responsible for handing over completed segments of the irrigation
system to CADA. The ID organization is shown on Chart C-2.
4.02      Although the present standards of structural design of dams and
major civil works on the irrigation system generally follow sound engineering
practice, the criteria used for planning and implementation of the canals
require modification to enable a more reliable and responsive water supply.
To implement the agreed system improvements (listed in paras 3.08 and 3.10),
organizational strengthening in the ID is required as follows: (a) a Dam
Review Panel (para 4.06); (b) an ID land drainage design unit; (c) a Quality
Control unit for each scheme, coordinated by a senior ID officer (Superin-
tending Engineer) to help upgrade construction practices (para 4.05); (d) ID
participation, with the Land Development Agency (LDA), of the Agricultural
Department (AD) in a minor distribution canal planning and design unit in
each CADA; and (e) ID technical participation in the project monitoring unit.
The training program would produce in about two years the necessary expert
personnel to staff both the planning unit in CADA and the LDA in charge of
constructing the minor system (para 4.10). At the initial stage of planning
the layout of each distributary block, the CAD organization would provide
specialized personnel to review the irrigation soil surveys and to determine
the irrigability and drainability classification of the land to be brought
under irrigation. These classifications would be used by the CADA planning
and design unit responsible to determine the area to be included in the canal
irrigation scheme. The LDA field units would function under the supervision
of the new planning unit to be set up under each CADA Administrator.



- 24 -
4.03      The Agricultuaal Department (AD) is responsible for overall agri-
cultural development planning.  In the rainfed areas the AD supervises the
district level extension activities of the Zilla Parishad in the development
blocks (para 2.03). In major irrigation project areas a Command Area Develop-
ment Authority (CADA) is responsible for crop and water supply planning and
coordination of farm inputs. The AD provides land development services (land
shaping, field channels and field drains) through its soil conservation field
units -who are organized in the LDA. Under the operation these AD functions
would continue. In addition, the AD would play a more active role in future
agricultural development of the irrigation scheme areas. This would include:
agricultural extension; coordination of adaptive agricultural research; and
active participation in monitoring the performance of the schemes.
4.04      The Public Works and Housing Department (PW&HD) would survey, plan,
design and supervise construction and maintain the command area roads in close
consultation with the Chief Engineer and the CADA Administrator in each irri-
gation scheme. The Road Project Cell in headquarters, headed by a Deputy
Secretary/Superintending Engineer, would be retained throughout the imple-
mentation period with responsibility for overall control and liaison of the
road component.  Two Command Area Road Circles would be created to be engaged
exclusively in command area works. Each Circle would comprise three Divisions,
each having up to six Sub-Divisions. In addition, two specialist Sub-Divisions
would be attached to each Circle, one for quality control and one for mainte-
nance of construction equipment. Back-up for these two services would be
provided by the PW&HD Quality Control Organization and Mechanical Wing,
respectively, while the operation would provide field testing equipment for
quality control and mobile maintenance units to undertake a regular program
of inspection and servicing of all equipment employed on the widely scattered
construction sites.
4.05      Quality Control Unit (QCU).  Be,cause of the large and widespread
construction of major and medium irrigation projects in the State and the
need to safeguard project quality (for example, on concrete lining of canals
over thousands of kilometers) the GOM would reinstitute the QCU of the ID.
This would shift responsibility for inspection from the site construction
engineer (who would, however, remain responsible for the finished product)
to an inspector, who would be able to call attention to any deficiencies and
propose corrective action to the regional Chief Engineers. Each Chief Engineer
would be provided with a small specialist inspection team which would spot
check field construction to ensure that the ID field units (circles) are
correctly and consistently testing the quality of construction methods and
materials. These teams would arrange for laboratory testing as required at
GOM's Maharashtra Engineering Research Institute (MERI) and be responsible for
introducing new construction procedures and techniques. An agreement has been
obtained from GOM that it would establish quality control units in each of
the schemes under a senior engineer in the ID, by January 1, 1980.
4.06      Dam Review Panel.  Design and construction of the scheme dams are
generally adequate (para 3.08). The GOM has set up a review panel composed
of specialists with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, who would routinely
review dam safety and efficiency. The panel includes an engineering geologist,



- 25 -
a flood hydrologist and a dam design and construction engineer. This panel
would meet periodically as required, and not less than once in 12 months, to
review and evaluate all data and dam design and construction practices, and
make specific recommendations to the GOM concerning: embankment safety;
foundation and abutment integrity; and spillway adequacy.
B. Irrigation System Development and Management
4.07      General.  Successful economic development of an irrigation scheme
is very largely a function of appropriate standards of planning and construc-
tion and sound system management aimed at the fullest, sustained utilization
of each irrigated block as soon as water becomes available. This requires
focussing on the performance of the schemes which should be measured in terms
of water actually delivered to the farmgate and the resulting increases of
agricultural production on the farm. This style of project management keeps
abreast of actual conditions at the farm level, gains the confidence of the
cultivators and continuously feeds back development experience to the planners
to help upgrade technical standards and refine water management procedures.
4.08      Command Area Development (CAD) Organization.  Since 1972, the GOM
has entrusted major irrigation development and management (following comple-
tion of construction by the ID) to its CAD organization, a wing of the ID,
which is structured around a Cabinet level committee, and a Regional Board
together with a CAD Authority (CADA) for each major irrigation development.
Although the CAD organizational concept, which was appraised under the
Maharashtra, Jayakwadi Irrigation Project (Credit 736-IN), is acceptable to
IDA, the organization has yet to achieve the ideals expressed in para 4.07.
The GOM has recently strengthened the CAD organization at State level by the
appointment of a full-time CAD Commissioner with direct access to the Cabinet
Committee; as a Secretary in the Irrigation Department, the Commissioner also
provides essential coordination at State planning level. Each CADA is headed
by an Administrator who, through an Executive Committee, coordinates the GOM
agencies participating in crop planning and water allocation; operation and
maintenance of the canal network and maintenance of command area roads; farm
support services such as agricultural extension and input supplies; and
on-farm development (OFD).
4.09      Strengthening of the CAD Organization.  The GOM would upgrade CAD
functions, responsibility and expertise to ensure that the performance of the
irrigation schemes is improved. In particular, it would strengthen the exist-
ing CADAs at Bhima, Krishna, and Girna projects and would establish new CADAs
in the Kukadi, Warna, Upper Penganga, Upper Wardha and Mula schemes at least
12 months prior to the first water deliveries. The following steps would be
taken by the GOM to expand the CAD functions in irrigation schemes and to
strengthen State level CAD organization:
(a) each CADA would be made responsible (in close coordination
with ID for canal network and PW&HD for roads) for taking
over, and operating and maintaining each distributary block
(paras 4.14 and 4.15);



- 26 -
(b) the survey, planning, and design of the minor irrigation
and drainage networks below the chak outlet would be done
by the CADA planning unit in each irrigation scheme. It
would also organize and supervise implementation of these
works by the Land Development Agency of the AD;
(c)  CAD, as a wing of the ID, would have the responsibility of
a full government agency with its own establishment of land
and water development engineers and agriculturalists (who
would be deputed to the individual CADAs) (para 4.10);
(d) the CAD organization at State level would coordinate technical
training programs (para 4.10);
(e) each CADA would establish a pioneer water management unit
(WMU) on the pattern adopted for the Jayakwadi pilot proj-
ect. These WMUs would be responsible for research and
development at minor command and at farm level. The WMUs
will be coordinated by the GOM's pilot water management
program in Jayakwadi (para 4.12);
(f) GOM would provide an agricultural extension system accept-
able to IDA, to be operated by the Department of Agriculture
(in close cooperation with the CADA), for the development
blocks covering the eight irrigation scheme areas (para
4.17); and
(g) a central monitoring and evaluation unit would be set up in
the office of the Commissioner CAD with responsibility for
continual monitoring of project performance. This unit
would also organize periodic socio-economic surveys in the
project areas (para 4.11).
Training and Establishment for Land Development and Water
Management Specialists
4.10      An important finding of the sectoral background (Volume II), con-
sistent with experience from other irrigation projects in India, is that
the speed and effectiveness of water utilization depends on the adequate
development of each minor canal command area (below the outlets) and on good
canal system management. At present, personnel with the necessary specialized
skills in water management and land development are almost non-existent.
The GOM would, under the operation, start appropriate training in these
subjects. GOM will train irrigation specialists within the CAD organization,
who would gradually take over management of all public sector major and medium
irrigation projects in the State. As a first step in this long-term program,
GOM would commence, under the proposed project, a vocationally-oriented,
single-streamed, training program in water management and development of land
for irrigated agriculture. The program would comprise courses of duration
varying from 6 to 9 months for personnel in the Irrigation Department, with



- 27 -
university degrees and diplomas in civil engineering or agronomy or agricul-
ture engineering. New entrants would be absorbed into the CAD organization
for their entire professional career and in-service candidates would be
required to serve a minimum of three years in a CADA following completion
of the course. In addition, GOM would gradually provide technical upgrading
courses for agricultural and irrigation field assistants of the two depart-
ments engaged in irrigation management and land development. The project
would assist the establishment of a new training institute to be located at
Aurangabad in the heart of Maharashtra's irrigated region and would provide
residential and training accommodation, equipment, incremental staff salaries
and training allowances, consultant services and, to a limited extent, over-
seas training for the institute's staff. Under this program 210 new entrants,
245 junior engineers (ID) and 245 soil conservation sub-divisional officers
(LDA/AD) would be trained by 1984. Agreements have been obtained from GOM
that it would establish within the CAD organization a cadre of land develop-
ment and water management specialists, and fill the established posts in the
cadre as each distributary block is commissioned and as and when staff trained
under such training program becomes available; and that it would commence a
training program for land development and water management specialists accept-
able to IDA by October 1, 1980.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      For the economic evaluation of the schemes, improved system (irri-
gation) efficiencies were assumed. These efficiencies can be achieved only
with improved conveyance technologies (to reduce seepage losses) and more
efficient operational procedures to reduce operational losses. The proposed
innovations were developed from observations and measurements done in existing
projects during the last two years. They are described in detail in Volume II
(Sectoral Background). From project effectiveness (October 1979) to the
first evaluation point, provisionally set for October 1983, a detailed evalu-
ation of these innovations (as to the cost and performance) will be required
to provide reliable information for review in October 1983. To test farmers'
reactions to the innovations in the water delivery system and to the revised
operational procedures, which should ensure a timely water supply to their
farms, periodic agro-economic surveys would be required. Monitoring and
evaluation will be carried out on a continuous basis by a specialized unit
set up in the office of the CAD Commissioner. The unit would carry out:
(a) monitoring of water deliveries in each completed segment
of the schemes. The measurement work will be carried out
by teams deputed from the ID;
(b) collection and tabulation of cost data related to each
component of the schemes;
(c) measurement of crop yields, cropping intensities, cropping
calendars and patterns, and agricultural production related
to specific deliveries of canal water and from wells; the
resulting farm incomes, and the cost of inputs related to
the production actually measured;



- 28 -
(d) derivation of related costs and benefits arising from:
alternative levels of irrigation service; lined vs. unlined
minor and subminor canals; size of outlet commands; varying
levels of land development; the impact of new varieties,
planting methods, irrigation and drainage field methods;
and comparative standards of canal maintenance; and
(e) carrying out periodic socio-economic surveys, and a major
evaluating survey commencing January 1982, for completion
prior to October 1982.
The GOM would plan the monitoring and evaluation work in consultation with
the IDA. The project cost estimates allow for financing the monitoring and
evaluation work (facilities, equipment, vehicles and personnel). Some of the
socio-economic studies would be contracted to economic developlnent institutes
in India. An agreement has been obtained from the GOM that it would establish
a monitoring and evaluation unit under thie leadership of a senior officer in
the office of the CAD Commissioner, by January 1, 1980.
4.12      Pilot Water Management.  In 1978 GOM commenced a systematic research
program in the Jayakwadi (Credit 736-IN) command area to identify appropriate
conveyance technologies for the minor watesr distribution system and to eval-
uate the costs and benefits of improved water use measures. The program
includes comparative studies of various packages of recommended improvements
for physical facilities and organizationaL procedures. It is divided into two
concurrent streams of activities. First, a relatively short-term program to
last about 4 years for testing various urgzently required innovations (e.g.,
type of lining of water courses and field channels; the performance of lined
vs. unlined subminor canals and field channels; rotational water supply (RWS);
and the effect of a reduced chak size). Second, a longer term research pro-
gram to improve irrigation field efficiencies, crop water response and experi-
mentation with advanced technologies in conveyance and irrigation practices
(piped distribution, night storage tanks). The proposed IDA project would
assist pilot water management studies in the Jayakwadi command during the
next 5 years and extend them to the six irrigation scheme areas. The project
would finance construction of civil works and housing, measurement devices,
instrumentation, vehicles, survey equipment and consultancy services on the
Jayakwadi location and for six satellite stations on the six irrigation
schemes. The operations would be run by the CADA Water Management Units,
which would be coordinated by the CAD Commissioner and the statewide pilot
operation located in Jayakwadi.
C. Water Allocation, Operation and Maintenance
4.13       Water Allocation and Delivery.  The GOM has allocated sufficient
water to the schemes to sustain the projected design cropping patterns. The
procedures for annual and seasonal irrigation water scheduling are currently



- 29 -
under review by a GOM technical committee. 1/ The committee's interim report
advocates modification of present allocation policies and procedures. These
changes are in line with the IDA recommendations and include: abandoning the
on-demand allocation system; interseasonal options for groups of cultivators
and freedom of choice for the cultivators to decide the areas and crops
to be grown within the available water supply; use of interseasonal decision
points to plan reservoir releases; and water allocation preference for small
farmers (less than 2.5 ha). An agreement has been obtained from the GOM that
it would, in consultation with IDA, introduce new water allocation procedures
in each distributary block not later than two years after the first water
delivery. In addition to these changes in water allocation a new system of
guaranteed, timely water delivery will be introduced. A number of pilot water
management projects in India (including Girna and Jayakwadi in Maharashtra)
have demonstrated the value of a reliable rotational water supply (RWS) and
systematic irrigation scheduling. The proposed project would include the
establishment of water management units (WMU) in each CADA. The units would
set up pilot models in each of the irrigation schemes, with the participation
of the concerned farmers, to help develop water delivery schedules. WMU would
also provide specialist advice to the extension service on irrigation practices,
would undertake research and development on the minor canal system and would
provide technical assistance to farmers on land development.
4.14      Operation and Maintenance of Canal Networks.  The irrigation and
drainage networks would be constructed by the ID and handed over to the
CADA for operation and maintenance (O&M). The irrigation canals would be
operated to respond to crop needs within the water allocation plan prepared
by CADA each season. Water would be delivered according to the Rotational
Water Supply (RWS) system which would be introduced in each new distributary
block from the commencement of irrigation. 2/ The basic field operating unit
would consist of two distributary command blocks, each managed by a junior
engineer, and totalling about 3,000 ha, which would be equipped with the
necessary radio communication and climatic data collection devices. To ensure
that the irrigation schemes are completely functional from the outset, the ID
would commission each distributary block prior to handing it over to the CADA.
The commissioning would be carried out by the ID during a period of 24 months
after completion of construction and would include repairs or reconstruction
to remedy any deficiencies in design and construction. A similar procedure
would be used for the main and link drainage systems. To ensure adequate
operation and maintenance of the canal systems, an agreement was obtained
from the GOM during negotiations that it would provide the CADA with: (a) an
annual O&M budget determined on the basis of a detailed operation and mainte-
nance program for each segment of the scheme works; and (b) that it would
ensure the closure of the canals for an appropriate period which would
be determined and adequately publicized each year at the beginning of June.
1/   Interim Report of the Committee to Study the Introduction of Eight
Monthly Supply of Water on the Irrigation Projects in Maharashtra.
2/   As farmets in most of the command areas have not had water available
in the past, the introduction of a RWS with the first release of water
to the chak should be relatively straightforward.



- 30 -
4.15      Road Maintenance.  GOM is conscious of the need to safeguard the
large investments now being made in the rural road programs by ensuring that
proper and regular road maintenance is undertaken. For many years respon-
sibility for constructing and maintaining roads has been split, between PW&HD
for national and state highways and the ZP for all other roads. The ZP employ
their own public works organization and are partly financed from State funds,
channelled through various GOM departmental budgets (including PW&HD) and
partly from local revenue. As far as roads are concerned, the Chief Engineer
(PW&HD) retains ultimate responsibility for works carried out by the ZP units
and financed from state funds, but in practice, it is often difficult to
effectively control large numbers of semi-autonomous authorities. With the
introduction of large rural road programs in 1977/78, this policy was modified.
The PW&HD was appointed sole executing agency for road construction works,
regardless of road category. They have also taken over responsibility for
the maintenance of selected lengths of important district roads. Thus, many
of the scheme roads would be retained by PW&HD for maintenance on completion
of construction while the remainder would be handed over to the local ZP units
for maintenance. In both cases, ultimate responsibility for adequate mainte-
nance would rest with PW&HD.
D. Farm Support Services
4.16      Agricultural Research is the responsibility of the four Agricultural
Universities (AU) in the State. The Rahuri AU covers the Bhima, Krishna,
Kukadi, Warna, Mula and Girna schemes; the Parbhani AU the Upper Penganga
scheme; and the Akola AU the Upper Wardha scheme. In general, the basic
research needs of the operation are well covered. The AUs have both under-
graduate and postgraduate schools and also operate extension agents (Gram
Sevak) training centers. A considerable number of research stations are
operated by each of the Universities, including stations for wheat, sugarcane,
oilseeds and potatoes (in Western Maharashtra); sorghum, pearl millet, cotton,
sugarcane, pulses and oilseeds in the Marathwada region, and cotton and citrus
research stations in the Vidarba region. There is, however, a need for
adaptive or developmental research to be carried out within the irrigation
areas. Under the project GOM would set up an irrigation research and develop-
ment center initially in the Kukadi irrigation scheme area under the Ruhuri
AU. This center would have facilities for research, demonstrations, training
and extension education.
4.17      Agricultural Extension is normally provided through local government
channels and the Zilla Parishad which have their own Agriculture Department
and extension workers. At the village level the extension agents are respon-
sible for extension together with programs of other departments concerned
with rural development. A Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural
extension would be implemented in those development blocks which cover the
scheme areas. The system would be operated by the AD in close cooperation
with the CADA Administrator in each irrigation scheme area.  The GOM personnel
re- rements would be based on the following ratios: one village Level Worker
(VL_I) for about 700 farm families; one Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO)



- 31 -
per 7 VLW; one Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officer per 6 AEO; one team of
about 3 Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) for about 80 VLW. An agreement has
been obtained from GOM that it would implement in the scheme areas a T&V
system of agricultural extension in the concerned development blocks not later
than two years after the first water delivery.
4.18       Input Supply Services.  Forecast estimates of input requirements
(fertilizers, seed and plant protection chemicals) are prepared by the Agri-
culture Departments of the Zilla Parishads before each season. The require-
ments are then provided to the supplying agencies who are principally the
Maharashtra Cooperative Marketing Federation in respect of fertilizers, the
Maharashtra Agro-Industries Development Corporation for plant protection
chemicals and the Department of Agriculture for seed. Under the operation
the CADA would coordinate input supplies for their respective areas.
4.19       Seed.  At present, many farmers retain their own seed or buy or
exchange seed with their neighbors. However, with the increasing use of
modern varieties this traditional practice is declining. The production of
breeder and foundation seed is the responsibility of the universities and is
carried out on the university farms. Certified seed is supplied by the State
Seeds Corporation (SSC), the National Seeds Corporation, the Taluka Seed farms
and by private producers. SSC has its headquarters at Akola and since its
formation in 1976 has mainly concentrated on hybrid jowar and cotton seed
grown on contract by farmers. There are a large number of Taluka Seed farms
under the Zilla Parishad which produce seed of hybrid sorghum, wheat and
limited amounts of pulses. Hybrid cotton seed is produced mainly by private
growers. Distribution of seed is both through private commercial channels
and through the Agriculture Department. Seed processing is done by the
private sector, cooperatives, the Agriculture Department and the State Seed
Corporation. Seed certification is carried out by the Maharashtra State Seed
Certification Agency which operates under the Seeds Act of 1966; its main
function is to ensure the genetic and physical purity of the seed produced.
Prior to certification, seed fields and seed processing plants are inspected,
and samples are tested in seed testing laboratories (located at Aurangabad,
Pune and Nagpur) for purity and germination. No difficulty is foreseen in
meeting the seed requirements of the operation.
4.20      Fertilizers.  Between 1960/61 and 1977/78, the use of fertilizer in
Maharashtra increased from 29,000 nutrient tons to 360,000 tons of which 55%
was used in irrigated areas. Some 40% of the fertilizers is sold as urea
(46% N) and 57% in the form of Suphala (15:15:15). Marketing and distribution
is adequately organized: there are 3,247 dealers registered with the Agri-
cultural Department throughout the State (1,734 private dealers, 1,229 coop-
erative dealers and 284 Agro-Services Center).  Farmers obtain fertilizers
either by cash purchase or through short-term production loans through the
Cooperative Agricultural Credit Societies. The scale of finance per hectare
for all necessary inputs including fertilizer and pesticides is fixed annually.
Fertilizers are subject to the Fertilizer Control Order (1957), whereby dealers
and manufacturers are subject to inspection by Agricultural Department staff



- 32 -
for quaiity and sales at controlled prices.  Quality control is regulated by
the analysis of samples at Government Laboratories, Pune. The supply of
fertilizers is adequate to sustain the operation.
4.21      The use of plant protection materials is gradually becoming more
widespread, especially for such crops as cotton, chillies, hybrid sorghum and
sugarcane. The Maharashtra Agro-Industries Development Corporation purchases
materials which are stored in State Warehousing Corporation godowns, from
which the agents of the Zilla Parishads as; well as the cultivators purchase
materials at full cost against cash payments. The Insecticides Act of 1968
regulates the import, manufacture, sale, transport, distribution, use and
quality control of insecticides. An insecticide testing laboratory operates
at Pune. Manufacturing of pesticides is concentrated in the Bombay area. In
1977/78 over 10,000 licenses for the sale of plant protection chemicals were
issued throughout the State. Sufficient plant chemicals would be available
for the operation.
4.22      Agricultural Credit.  Credit needs in the scheme areas will be
primarily for long-term loans, to cover orn-farm development (Part II works), 1/
where institutional credit is employed. Cinly about half the holdings are
expected to require Part II works. Loans would be made to individual cul-
tivators under ARDC terms and conditions. The cost of Part II works during
the 1979-84 period would be about US$10 million. These costs are not included
in the costs of the operation and would be financed from the existing IDA-
supported ARDC III credit. The State has recently decided that the cost of
Part I works (field channel construction and community items between the
present 40 ha outlet and the new 8 ha outlets), formerly a credit item, would
be met from the State budget, with full recovery from the cultivators, pro-
bably as a land revenue charge spread over 10 years. Medium- and short-term
credit (production loans) are supplied by the Central Cooperative Banks
(members of the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank) operating at the village
level and through Agricultural Credit Societies. Other institutional sources
of short-and medium-term credit are the Commercial Banks (CBs), which are the
exclusive source of credit in some areas, as well as the newly established
rural banks.
4.23      Marketing is progressive and well organized throughout the State.
Most marketable surpluses are sold by farmers through regulated markets.
Markets serving the scheme areas are adequate but require further develop-
ment in order to handle increased production. Finance for this would be
available through institutional sources.
4.24      Storage and Processing.  Present storage facilities provided by
GOM agencies, the Cooperatives and private trade are adequate. Similarly,
processing facilities are at present satisfactory.
1/   Part II works are carried out on the farmers' fields (land shaping
and leveling, field channels etc.).



- 33 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND COST RECOVERY
5.01      Present agricultural production in the scheme areas reflects the
uncertain rainfall. Average yields are low and cropping intensities only
around 100%. This climatic constraint is the principal risk factor in the
farmers' use of modern high yielding varieties, which require relatively
costly inputs of labor, seed, fertilizer and chemicals. Existing minor
irrigation facilities (wells, pumplifts), which are dispersed throughout the
scheme areas, have demonstrated that local farmers quickly adopt profitable
cropping patterns once an assured water supply is available. A wide variety
of crops including high yielding sorghum, fodder, wheat, vegetables, flowers,
fruit and sugarcane are grown under minor irrigation. Under assured year-
round canal irrigation, farmers can be expected to adopt more profitable
cropping patterns employing high yielding varieties, and to move away from
the present subsistence type agriculture. The introduction of efficient farm
irrigation and drainage practices would, however, need considerable inputs
from developmental research (para 4.16) and agricultural extension (para 4.17).
5.02      Agricultural production in the scheme areas would increase through
the adoption of more intensive year-round cropping patterns (Table T-14)
through increased yields (Table T-15), and from a switch from drought re-
sistant to more water responsive crops. Expected total incremental agri-
cultural production at full development (about 10 years after commencement
of irrigation delivery in each block of the six irrigation schemes) is shown
below for major crop categories; details of individual crop production are
shown in Table T-14.
Incremental Production /a
Foodgrains   Cotton   Sugarcane
---------- 000 tons -----------
Bhima                           217          21        101
Krishna                         138           4        758
Kukadi                          266           -         140
U. Penganga                     204          38         140
U. Wardha                       140          16          80
Warna                           197           -      1,219
Total                    1,162          79      2,438
/a   Incremental = Future with Project minus Future without
Project (W-W).
Cost Recovery
5.03      Capital and O&M Costs.  The average capital costs for the schemes
are estimated as follows (details for each irrigation scheme are shown in
Table T-18):



- 34 -
Part I    Part II
Infrastructure    Works       Works      O&M    Total
(--------------- Rslha of net CCA ----------------)
Total capital costs /a        17,060 /b       700        1,150        -    18,910
Annual financial
requirement                  1,720 Ic       114 /d       186 /d   100    2,120
/a All expressed in June 1979 prices.
Tb Including sunk costs.
/c In present value terms, at 10% interest rate over 50 years.
7T In present value terms, at 10% interest rate over 10 years.
Annual O&M costs are estimated at Rs 100/ha. The farmers would be required
to repay the full amount of the Part I works, which would be recovered under
the Bombay Land Improvement Schemes Act (1942, modified January 7, 1976).
Only about half the area is expected to require Part II works; those farmers
requiring finance would obtain it through institutional sources (refinanced
by ARDC).  The 10-year repayment schedule for both Part I and Part II works
includes a 2-year grace period.
5.04      Water Charges.  At present, the prime vehicle for recovery of
capital and O&M costs for irrigation works is the water charge.  Different
rates are charged for each crop, roughly corresponding to the amount of water
utilized. The present rates are the highest in the country:
Name of Crop or Season                    Rates  (Rs/ha)
Sugarcane and Plantains                         750
Other perennials                                 500
Kharif seasonal crops                             50
Rabi seasonal crops                               75
Hot weather seasonals                            150
Hot weather cotton                               250
Hot weather groundnuts                           250
Pre-seasonal watering                             75
Post-seasonal watering to
kharif crops in rabi season                      20
Post-seasonal watering to
rabi crops in hot weather
season                                          25
5.05      Other Water Related Charges.  A 20% local cess is levied on the
water rate. An Employment Guarantee Scheme (EGS) cess is levied at a rate of
Rs 25 per ha of irrigated land, and an Education cess varies with the crops
grown, as follows:



- 35 -
Crop                               Rates (Rs/ha)
Sugarcane (perennial irrigation)                190
Sugarcane (on other lands)                      110
Irrigated cotton                                 40
Hybrid seeds                                    40-110
Irrigated groundnuts                              40
Fruits                                         80-380
Turmeric                                          80
Tobacco (irrigated)                              130
5.06     The land revenue varies by district and type of crop grown. The
average difference between rates levied on irrigated and unirrigated lands in
the six schemes would be as follows:
Rs/ha
Bhima                       5
Krishna                     13
Kukadi                      8
Upper Penganga              16
Upper Wardha               10
Warna                      13
5.07      Other Agricultural Taxes.  GOM is making a strong tax effort.
However, since incomes in the agricultural sector are much lower than in the
manufacturing and service sectors, the rate of agricultural taxation is
relatively modest.  Most of the revenues come from cash crops.  A purchase
tax--equivalent to Rs 630/ha--is levied on sugarcane and an agricultural sales
tax of 4% is levied on cotton and oilseeds.
5.08      Levels of Cost Recovery.  If the water and water-related charges
remain at their present levels--in real terms--the GOM would recover about
30% of project cost:



- 36 -
Cost Recovery
Cost/Revenue            Index
(Rs/ha of net CCA)    - (1)
Annual Capital and O&M Costs                2,120
Direct Cost Recovery
Water Charges                               150                 7.1
Irrigation Related Cesses                    90                 4.2
Incremental Land Revenue                     10                 0.5
Farmers Contribution for
On-farm Works                             301                14.2
Sub-total                             551                26.0
Indirect Cost Recovery
Purchase tax on sugarcane                    33                 1.6
Agricultural Sales Tax                       43                 2.0
Sub-total                              76                 3.6
Total Cost Recovery                           627                29.6
Evaluation of GOM's Cost Recovery Policy
5.09      The adequacy of GOM's cost recovery policies should be evaluated
in terms of: (i) the usefulness of water charges to promote efficient use
of irrigation water; (ii) the need to generate public savings to sustain a
high level of investments in irrigation; and (iii) equity and the farmers'
ability to pay water charges.
5.10      Promoting Efficient Water Use.  In general, volumetric water rates
promote a more efficient water use than acreage based water charges, but the
unlined distribution systems existing at present do not permit either a reli-
able irrigation supply nor an accurate measurement of the water supplied to
each farmer. The new technical standards for the distribution network and
the rotational water supply introduced under the credit are specifically
designed to ensure that each farmer in the command areas receives a fixed
volume of water in a reliable fashion. Thus, it would be technically fea-
sible to charge the farmers on a volumetric basis 1/.
5.11      When the farmer is allocated a fixed amount of water, he tends to
select his crops and his intensity of irrigation in such a way that he opti-
mizes his returns to water (see Volume II, para 5.48). In the absence of
1/   The volumetric measurement of water deliveries will be carried out at
this stage by measuring the time during which a fixed flow of water
is made available to the farmer at the 8 ha chak outlet.



- 37 -
major distortions in the price structure of major crops, this allocation
system generally leads to an efficient use of water. Conversely, an acreage
based water charge provides an incentive to use his water allocation on a
smaller area than what is most desirable from the society's point of view.
Consequently, area based charges might adversely affect production if they
are set at too high a level. Volumetric charges would allow farmers to vary
their crops and the irrigated area to maximize the private and social returns
to water irrespective of the level of water charges. The introduction of a
system of water charges based on water quantities delivered is therefore of
highest priority.
5.12      Public Savings.  Although the water and water-related charges are
relatively low and contribute little to the State's revenues, GOM is making
a strong effort in resource mobilization by other means. Its revenues per
capita (Rs 170 in 1976/77) are the third highest in India and almost double
the national average. Its tax revenues are fairly elastic and have increased
from 4.0% of the State's income in 1960/61 to 7.5% in 1976/77. 1/ Under the
Indian Constitution, the States have been assigned almost all taxes--direct
and indirect--on agriculture and a variety of indirect taxes. However, due
to the difficulty of assessing and collecting taxes on the agricultural sec-
tor and the relatively low incomes in the sector, GOM relies heavily on in-
direct taxes on the non-agricultural sectors. In fact, less than one-fifth
of GOM's taxes originate from agriculture.
5.13      GOM would directly recover about 26% of project cost from the bene-
ficiaries. In addition, GOM would recover about 4% through sales and pur-
chase taxes on the incremental production resulting from the operation. This
would bring the cost recovery index up to 30% (para 5.08) and imply that
about 70% of the costs are met from the Government budget. However, this
overestimates the net impact on the budget since the increased farm incomes
would lead to further increases in GOM and GOI revenues through other indirect
taxes. On the basis of agricultural production and indirect taxes for the
whole State during 1960/61 to 1975/76, it is estimated that Rs 1.0 of value
added in agriculture would generate about Rs 0.04 in indirect taxes other
than those discussed in paras 5.05-5.07. Under the operation, the incre-
mental value added would amount to about Rs 4,100 per ha and GOM's incremental
revenues from non-agricultural taxes would be about Rs 160 per ha. 2/
1/   The central taxes originating in the State should be added to obtain a
complete picture of the tax situation in Maharashtra. Statewide figures
on central taxes are not available but GOI's tax revenues amounted to
about 11.6% of GDP in 1976/77. Thus, it can be assumed that the total
taxes collected at present in Maharashtra exceed 20% of State income.
2/   It should be noted that this represents only a part of GOI's and GOM's
incremental revenue resulting from the operation. The reason is that
increased agricultural incomes would generate growth in the non-
agricultural sectors of the State's economy and the implicit taxation
on these sectors are significantly higher than on agriculture. The total
cost recovery from the direct and indirect benefits of the operation
would be considerably higher.



- 38 -
Consequently, the net contribution from GOM's budget would be no more than
Rs 1,430 per ha or about 63% of the annual financial requirements.
5.14      Farmer's Ability to Pay Water Charges.  For the assessment of
farmers' ability to pay water charges, the "project rent" has been estimated.
The project rent is equal to net incremental farm income less the necessary
rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation
risk. The project rent has been analyzed for representative farm models in
each scheme (Table T-19). At full development the project rent is estimated
to average about Rs 2,030 per ha. Thus if the water rates remain unchanged
the rent recovery index for the project would be 31%. However, in the past,
the water rates have been increased in real terms to reflect the increased
benefits from irrigation. This trend is likely to continue in the future.
Given the expected large increases in incomes as a result of the construction
of the schemes, there would appear to be scope for subsequent increases in the
water-related charges.
5.15      However, there are large variations not only in the benefits accru-
ing from different projects but also between different farmers in the same
scheme. In view of the difficulties of assessing the benefits to each indi-
vidual farmer, the general policy in India is to charge a uniform water rate.
It has been observed in the older projects, that the water supply to most
tailend farmers is highly unreliable and that their benefits from "irrigation"
are fairly low. Consequently, water rates have to be set at a low level in
order to give the tailend farmers sufficient incentive to use irrigation water,
even though the "average" farmer would be able to pay substantially higher
charges. Because of the low charges, the "average" irrigated farmer makes a
significant profit which is taxed only to a limited extent. Both from an
equity point of view and from a resource mobilization point of view it would
be desirable to have a system of water charges that are directly related to
the benefits accruing to each farmer. Therefore, without volumetric charges,
that better reflect the benefits of irrigation, the water charges will
generally have to remain at a relatively low level.
5.16      Conclusion.  The technical standards introduced under the opera-
tion are specifically designed to ensure that each farmer in the command area
receives a reliable water supply and that it will be technically feasible
to collect water charges based on volumetric measurements of the water deli-
vered.  The cost per hectare of command area would be significantly higher 1/
than in existing projects, while at the same time the benefits to the indivi-
dual farmer would be higher and more secure. Efficiency considerations imply
that the introduction of a charge related to the volume of water delivered is
of the highest priority. Consequently, an agreement has been obtained from
GOM that, by December 31, 1980, it would review the water and water-related
charges in the State; and that, based on the outcome of the review and after
paying due regard to IDA's comments, it wDuld begin to experiment with
1/   However, the cost per actually irrigated hectare would be lower than
in existing systems.



- 39 -
different systems of volumetric charges to promote efficient water use by the
consumers. By December 31, 1983, GOM will have evaluated the experience from
these experiments and will start implementing a volumetric system of charges
in all the scheme areas. These charges should recover to the extent possible
the cost of the irrigation infrastructure. In establishing the level of
charges, due consideration would be given to farmers' incentives and payment
capacity and to the overall budgetary requirements of the State. The study
would be based on a careful evaluation of the benefits accruing from the
higher design standards and the rotational water supply introduced under
the operation.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION OF THE OPERATION 1/
General
6.01      The proposed operation would transform rainfed areas into highly
productive irrigated lands. It would increase the production of foodgrains,
oilseeds, cotton and sugarcane, and generate additional year-round employ-
ment opportunities for landless laborers and small farmers. Organizational
improvements introduced under the operation would strengthen capabilities for
the planning, design, monitoring and evaluation of the schemes and thus lead
to a general improvement in the technical and economic efficiency of future
developments.
6.02      The overall impact in terms of agricultural production, employment
generated and of farm families benefitted at completion of the schemes and
their full development is summarized below:
1/   The assumptions regarding prices, yields, input requirements and the
derived crop and farm budgets and economic benefits are given in
Tables T-15 to T-27.



- 40 -
Summary of Benefits at Full Development
Irrigation                                Upper       Upper
Scheme       Bhima   Krishna  Kukadi  Penganga   Wardha        Warna       Total
Directly bene-
fiting farm
families      25,200   24,700   26,400   25,200   15,000        29,000    145,500
Increase in
irrigated
area (ha)    126,000   74,000  132,000  126,000   75,000        87,000    620,000
Increased
foodgrain
production
(tons/year)  217,000  138,000  266,000  204,000  140,000    197,000  1,162,000
Increased
cotton
production
(tons/year)   21,400    4,000      -       37,400   15,700      -           78,600
Increased
sugarcane
production
(tons/year)  101,000  758,000  140,000  1L40,000   80,000  1,219,000  2,438,000
Net increase
in water
supply for
domestic
and indus-
trill use
(Mm /year)      -         -        -         _        63.6      -            63.6
Generated
family
employment
(jobs)        12,600   12,200   15,100   11,300    4,000        11,900      67,100
Generated
farm
employment
for hired
labor (jobs)  29,500   18,400   27,900   33,700   14,800        18,000    142,300
Generated
non-farm
employment
(jobs)        13,900   12,900   15,000   15,800    8,500        12,700      78,800
Value added
to local
economy
(Rs M)  /a       446       415      482       508       274        408       2,533
/a   Defined as the sum of gross farm incomes minus cash inputs (excluding
labor).



- 41 -
Employment Effects
6.03      Overall direct employment effects would stem from the provision of
irrigation in the scheme areas. The irrigation schemes together would in-
crease family employment by about 20.2 M mandays, which is equivalent to the
creation of about 67,000 full-time jobs. More important from an equity point
of view would be the creation of about 142,000 full time jobs for non-family
labor. The latter would consist largely of landless laborers, migrating from
outside areas. In Maharashtra, 30% of the male rural labor force, and 56%
of the female rural labor force are landless. Thus the operation would have
direct beneficial employment effects outside the immediate command areas.
6.04      With an increase in value added in agriculture of some Rs 2,533 M,
the operation would generate additional income and employment in local non-
farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. On the basis of
district level data on value added in agriculture and non-farm employment
in the adjacent State of Karnataka in 1970/71, 1/ (with adjustments for
inflation between 1970/71 and 1978/79), the increase in non-farm employment
is expected to be of the order of 79,000 manyears. Thus, the operation would
substantially decrease the high level of unemployment and under-employment
in the scheme areas and help to stem rural-urban drift.
Income Effects
6.05      In 1974/75, only 10.3% of the net cultivable area was irrigated in
Maharashtra; 1.9% from major and medium schemes, 2.2% from minor surface
schemes, and 6.2% from groundwater. Lack of irrigation facilities is thus
a major constraint. Once this constraint is removed, substantial income gains
are possible. In the case of the six ongoing schemes, the average net incre-
ment in farm incomes due to the investments under the operation is estimated
at about 260%. The estimated income effects of the operation are:
1/   See IBRD Staff Project Report:  Appraisal of the Karnataka Irrigation
Project, March 15, 1978. Report No. 1835a-IN.



- 42 -
Net Farm Incomes /a
Future    Future       Relative
Farm              Without    With      Increase due
Size   Present   Project   Project   to Project (%)
(ha)     P           W        W           W-W
_   _       -~~~              x 100
----------------Rs---
Bhima                        5      3,300      4,400    17,900          307
Krishna                      3      2,900      4,400    18,200          314
Kukadi                       5      3,400      4,600    19,200          317
Upper Penganga               5      4,400       6,200    22,400         261
Upper Wardha                 5      4,300      5,500    20,400          271
Warna                        3      4,200       7,000    18,100         159
Weighted Average/ha                   870       1,260     4,520         259
/a After deduction of water- and land-related charges.
Impact on Rural Poverty
6.06      The estimated distributional effiects of the project are positive and
very significant, as shown below:
% of Participating Farm Families below Poverty Line of Rs 600 p.c./p.a. /a
Present    Future with Project
Bhima                   56                10
Krishna                 69                20
Kukadi                  63                13
Upper Penganga          48                 5
Upper Wardha            57                 6
Warna                   65                23
Weighted Average        59                12
/a   This *as derived using the distribution of farm
sizes and the estimates of net farm income per ha;
estimates were made of off-farm income and of
average family size.



- 43 -
6.07      Income levels of landless laborers in the scheme areas are unknown,
but a survey in the Tungabhadra command area 1/ of Karnataka revealed that as
a result of irrigation, the average days worked annually by landless laborers
increased from about 130 to 230 days. With an increase in hired labor demand
of 42.6 M mandays, the operation would about double the average incomes of
over 400,000 landless laborers in the State.
Economic Analysis
6.08      The economic prices of major traded agricultural outputs and inputs
are derived from the IBRD projected 1990 world market prices expressed in 1979
currency value with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and process-
ing. The projected economic prices for non-traded foodgrains, on the other
hand, are derived by applying a foodgrain conversion factor to the financial
price. The financial prices of various crops are projected on the basis of
their historical price trends (para 4). Present and projected financial
and economic prices are given in Tables T-20 and T-21. The cost and benefit
streams are given in Tables T-22-27. The detailed assumptions behind the
estimates are described below.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
6.09      The benefits of the operation are evaluated at world market prices,
i.e. they measure what India would have to pay for imports or receive for
exports. Most of the costs, however, are for items that are not traded on
the world market. Tariffs and trade restrictions introduce a distortion
in the price relationship between traded goods - valued at world market
prices - and non-traded goods - valued at local prices. Thus, the costs
are not directly comparable with the benefits. In order to make them com-
parable, an SCF is applied to the price of non-traded goods and consumption.
In the absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be approximately calculated
using the formula:
SCF-=X + Sx + M + Tm 2/
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives an SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian Planning
1/   Canal Irrigation in Bellary District, G.P. Mishra, M. Vivekananda and
Y.G. Jayaram, mimeograph, undated. The agro-climatic conditions in
the Tungabhadra area are similar to those found on the Deccan Plateau
in Maharashtra.
2/   X = fob value of exports at the official exchange rate (OER); M = cif
value of imports at OER; Sx = export subsidies; Tm = import duties.



- 44 -
Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects the use of
conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that implicitly
give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of this estimate,
a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis.
Prices of Agricultural Outputs (Table T-20')
6.10      The economic prices for traded goods such as rice, wheat, cotton,
groundnuts, and sugarcane are based on their border prices at the official
exchange rate (OER). The domestic cost components (i.e. local transport and
marketing charges) are adjusted by the SCF of 0.80. The economic prices for
non-traded foodgrains (sorghum, maize and pulses are assumed to be non-traded)
are derived by applying a foodgrain conversion factor (FCF) to the financial
price. The FCF can be estimated with the following formula:
FCF    (Q rice x PE rice) + (Q wheat x PE wheat)
(Q rice x PF rice) + (Q wheat x PF wheat)
where  Q:   Maharashtra production
PE:   Economic price
PF:   Financial price
The projected financial prices for various crops are based on the estimated
historical price trends 1/ in Maharashtra and India.
Prices of Agricultural Inputs (Table T-21)
6.11      Fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides are potentially traded
commodities; to make allowance for taxes and subsidies and the total cost
of transport and marketing, a conversion factor of 0.95 has been applied to
the financial price . The financial price of bullocks and miscellaneous
charges have been multiplied by the SCF to express them in economic terms.
Analyses of farm labor supply and demand in various Indian irrigation projects
typically give an economic shadow wage rate for farm labor in the range of 1/2
to 2/3 of the average financial wage rate. For the analysis of this project a
shadow wage rate of 65% of the market wage has been assumed.
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)
6.12      The schemes would be constructed using a mixture of equipment,
skilled and unskilled labor. For the economic analysis, the CCF is estimated
as follows:
(a) Traded Component - This component includes capital-intensive
works which require imported materials. Since it is traded,
the conversion factor is 1.00. It is estimated that about
15% of the construction costs fall under this category.
1/   See Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project, Calculation of Financial
Prices, and Farm Budgets, prepared by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
Rome, October/November 1978.



- 45 -
(b) Non-Traded Component - This component includes works that
require skilled labor and locally manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.80 is used as the conversion factor for these
works. About 30% of the construction costs are included in
this category.
(c) Unskilled Labor. A minimum wage is in force in Maharashtra.
Since daily workers virtually never are paid above the
minimum wage, it is likely that this wage is higher than
the wage at which the workers would be willing to work (i.e.
their supply price). Civil works construction is harder
physical work than farming, and experience from similar
areas in India indicates that the laborers require a premium
of 25%-30% to shift from agriculture to construction work.
By comparison with agricultural wages in the State, it is
estimated that the construction laborers' supply price is
about 15% to 20% below the minimum wage. This gives a shadow
wage factor which is 10%-20% below the SCF, or approximately
equal to 0.65. It is estimated that unskilled labor consti-
tutes about 55% of the construction cost.
Conversion Factor
Traded Items                        1.00
Non-traded Items                   0.80
Unskilled Labor                    0.65
Construction Costs
(weighted average)                 0.75
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Costs
6.13      Costs of the operation include the cost of resettling families from
villages submerged by the reservoirs. The economic cost of resettlement is
calculated by multiplying the financial cost by the construction conversion
factor (CCF). Where the cost of land acquisition is concerned, the real cost
to society is the opportunity cost, that is, the production foregone by the
submersion of the land in the reservoirs and the loss of lands acquired for
the construction of the distribution system. The per ha value of production in
the future "without project" situation was taken to represent this opportunity
cost and deducted from the benefit stream.
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
6.14      The economic cost of all civil works, equipment, land acquisition,
administration and engineering, operation and maintenance costs have been
included in the derivation of the ERR. Discounting costs and benefits over a
50 year period, the estimated economic rate of return and the net present
value at 10% and 12% interest rate for each scheme at full development are as
follows:



- 46 -
Net Present Value
------ Rs M -----
ERR     10%             12%
Bhima                  13%      202.8          41.9
Krishna                 18%     470.7         245.8
Kukadi                  15%     325.5         130.1
Upper Penganga          15%     439.3         188.3
Upper Wardha            18%     610.1         339.9
Warna                   14%     285.8         104.4
Weighted average 1/   15%
Since IDA is financing time-slices of individual schemes where the benefits
on investments made during this time-slice are conditional on both past and
future investments, any attempt to attribute the economic returns to the
time-slice would be arbitrary; consequently, the ERR has been calculated for
each entire scheme from its inception to its completion.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.15      Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of each scheme
to different assumptions in key variables. Cases (2) and (3) are equivalent
to a reduction in overall irrigation efficiencies from 50% to 30% and 40%
respectively.
1/   Weighted by total project cost.



- 47 -
Upper      Upper
Bhima Krishna Kudadi Penganga Wardha /a Warna
Variable       Change         ----------Economic Rate of Return (%)---------
BASE CASE
(including
sunk costs)                         13    18       15         15        18       14
1. Construction
costs           +25%            11    16      13         13        15       12
2. Expected
benefits        -40%             8    13      10          10       13       10
(Reduction in
project effi-
ciency from
50% to 30%)
3. Expected
benefits        -20%            11    15      12          13        16      12
(Reduction in
project effi-
ciency from
50% to 40%)
4. Delay in full
benefits         5 years        11    15      12          13       15       12
5. Excluding all
sunk costs                      33    37      21         18        18       16
6. Including all
sunk costs,
as if they
occurred in
the first year
of the 5 year
time slice                      16    22      16         16        18       15
7. Combination of
(1), (3) and (4)                   7    11       9           9        11       8
/a   Including the benefits of the water diverted for industrial and
domestic use.
Risks
6.17       The risks associated with this operation are those generally asso-
ciated with irrigation projects in India (such as design and construction
delays, lack of adequate financing on time, insufficient funds available
for O&M, etc.). Where weaknesses have been identified, provisions have been
made for measures to strengthen the capabilities of the participating agencies.



- 48 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      An agreement has been reached between GOI and IDA that GOI would
channel the proceeds of the Credit to GOM in accordance with the standard
arrangements for development assistance in the States of India (para 3.19).
7.02      The following agreements have been obtained from GOM that:
(a) it would implement the project works in accordance with the
planning criteria, and design and construction standards
agreed with IDA, and that it would operate the schemes
in accordance with operational procedures agreed with
IDA (para 1.15-1.18);
(b) it would provide sufficient fun,ds to execute the project
in accordance with the implementation schedule for the
five-year period of project implementation (para 3.19);
(c)  it would, after the project credit has been disbursed,
complete the five irrigation schemes (Krishna, Kukadi,
Upper Penganga, Upper Wardha and Warna) as soon as tech-
nically and financially feasible (para 3.19);
(d) it would (i) maintain separate accounts on project ex-
penditure; (ii) ensure that these accounts would be
audited annually by the State Auditors; (iii) submit
audit summaries to IDA within 12 months from the end
of each fiscal year together with the auditors' reports;
and (iv) would make complete accounts and financial
statements available for inspection by IDA (para 3.25);
(e) it would take all measures considered necessary to
minimize the hazards of malaria and other water-related
diseases in the project area (para 3.26);
(f)  it would establish a quality control unit in each of the
schemes under a senior engineer to be appointed in the
ID, by January 1, 1980 (para 4.05);
(g) it would establish within the CAD organization a cadre of
land development and water management specialists, and fill
the established posts in the cadre as each distributary block
is commissioned and as and when staff trained under such
training program becomes available (para 4.10);
(h) it would commence a training program for land development
and water management specialists acceptable to IDA by
October 1, 1980 (para 4.10);



- 49 -
(i) it would establish a monitoring and evaluation unit
under the leadership of a senior officer in the office
of the CAD Commissioner by January 1, 1980 (para 4.11);
(j) it would, in consultation with the IDA, introduce
new water allocation procedures in each distributary
block not later than two years after the first water
delivery (para 4.13);
(k) it would provide the CADA with: (a) an annual O&M
budget determined on the basis of a detailed operation
and maintenance program for each segment of the scheme
works; and (b) that it would ensure the closure of the
canals for an appropriate period which would be deter-
mined and adequately publicized each year at the begin-
ning of June (para 4.14);
(1) it would implement in the scheme areas a T&V system
of agricultural extension in the concerned development
blocks not later than two years after the first water
delivery (para 4.17); and
(m)  by December 31, 1980, it would review the water and
water-related charges in the State; and that, based
on the outcome of the review and after paying due
regard to IDA's comments, it would begin to experi-
ment with different systems of volumetric charges to
promote efficient water use by the consumers. By
December 31, 1983, GOM will have evaluated the expe-
rience from these experiments and will start imple-
menting a volumetric system of charges in all the
scheme areas. These charges should recover to the
extent possible the cost of the irrigation infra-
structure. In establishing the level of charges,
due consideration would be given to farmers' incen-
tives and payment capacity and to the overall bud-
getary requirements of the State (para 5.16).
7.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$210 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be
the Government of India.
September 13, 1979



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Scheme Area Characteristics
Land Holding
Predominant                                   Size  No. of   Area
Irrigation Scheme          Population    Av.  Annual        Soil Types b/               Topography               Farmers
(Service Area, ha)         (Millions)    Rainfall a/    Category        % Area    % Slope  % of Area   (ha)    (%)    (%)
Bhima                         1.34        (500 mm)            1           51        4 2        86         0-2       34       7
(126,500 ha)                                                 2           19         2-3        12         2-8       48      44
3           30           3        2         - 8       18      49
Kukadi                        0.37        (600 mm)            1           77         v 2       84         0-2       34       6
(132,000 ha)                                                 2           20         2-3        12         2-8       46      32
3            3         .,-3       4          .' 8     20      62
Warna                         0.54        (600-700 mm)        1           26         4.2        84         0-2       76     37
(87,000 ha)                                                  2           24         2-3        12         2-8       22      45
3           50        7,3         4         - 8         2     18
Krishna                       0.48        (600-700 mm)        1           49         v 2        75         0-2       69     27
(74,000 ha)                                                  2           27         2-3        20         2-8       28      53
3           24         73          5         ,8         3     20
Upper Penganga                0.31        (1000 mm)           1           13         ' 2        82         0-2       40      15
(126,000 ha)                                                 2           33         2-3        15         2-8       52      63
3           54         ,3          3        - 8        8      22
Upper Wardha                  0.18       (800-900 mm)         1           14         - 2        75         0-2       54     21
(75,000 ha)                                                   2           33        2-3        20          2.i-8    39      51
3           53         v 3         5         2,8        7     28
I:-'
rxi
a/ See Climate, Table T-5.
b/ Categorized by depths: 1. shallow, less than 45 cm.; 2. medium, 45-250 cm.; 3. deep, greater than 250 cm. Soils
are predominantly clay and clay loams underlain by mixed granular/rock fragments mixed with clay and derived mostly
in situ, from underlying parent basalt rock (the Deccan "trap") whose weathered fracture zone is about 30 m thick.



INDIA
'AHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Salient Features of the Dams
Bhima                 Krishna                                              Kukadi               ___        _                    Upper Penganga                Upper Wardha       lWama
__~~~~~~~~~I pmpa1gam~
Ujjani      Dhom       Kanher    Total        Manikdoh    Yedga.,          .loge       Dimhe      ladaj    Total        Isapur       Sapli       Total          Simbhora        Chandoli
1.  River                             bhima        Krishna   'ensna                 t;kadi        v-kadi      yr             ',hod      ming                  Penganga    Kayadh.                      Wardha         Warna
2.  Catchment Area Sq. Km             14850          218        205                     129          461          9 6          298        155                   4650         1593                        4302             301
3.  Yields  -  Mm.3
a) 757. dependable                 3350          315       425       740           (201)         520        (137)          457        112      1089          650         219          869             620            1500
b) Net available at Canal
head                         1340          281        387       668                                                                        972                                  518              290            960
4.  storage in Mm.3
a) Gross                           3140          382        286       668           308           93         108           383         48       940         1254          119        1373             790             964
b) Live                            1440          331        272       603           288           79          92           354         42       855          951           61        1012              578            800
c) Dead                            1700           51         14        65            20           14          16            29          6        85          303           58         361             212             164
5. Maximum 8eight of Dam in (M)
a) Masonry                        56.40       49.98      47.46                    51.80        23.60       28.06         72.10      28.70                  12.64       18.70                        52.50           56.00
b) Earthen                        39.17        56.30      57.60                     -          23.60       24.73           -        28.70                  57.00        14.19                        51.57          89.50
6.  Length of Dam in (M)
a) Masonry                          912          241        245                     930          157          84           852        153                     512         290                          327            645  [
b) Earthen                         1555         2237       1701                     -           4313         841           -         1677                    3870        3030                         5600            935
c) Total                           2467         2478       1946                     930         4470         925           852       1830                   4382         3320                         5927           1580



Canal  UN.ork   ae.
piha.                Kan.er            Aqh.1ia          .. Bse    lKAd&l   f Mean   Eliths       Slhth      Chad                 I.
U.S.C.    L.BC.          S.B.C.    LEO..    U.S.C.    L.E.C.            LUB.         Usedar    LEO..   B..nch   LEO..            E.E.C.   Branc.h         U.S.C.    C.B.O.    K.F.C.   KB.C.                .B5.0,     La.B-          S.E.C.      LUbC.
L. Length K.                       P    121          239           52         113         50    .   20          135             14       253         40        15           72        11            177          51           a       205            101        42.0            194         154
C          288                                            241                                                        2715                                                        120                                    52                          82
2.  Co.sn.,d Are  (Ha.)
a)Cross                            62600     100820          9(09      33387       10721       2024       46964            -      157102    26912        4Ul4       14450       7669         124930      25(30        1214      27806          niL20I     23200           4.5276     612780
Tonal                                 166400                                    102205                                                               21084$                                                    (69080                             104400                      1oe556
6) C.C.A.                           49200       03000          7207      26709        8576       1619       36599                   1 21684    23068       4047       12465       6556        201400       20400        (595     26066          64200       19106          41228       55505
T,te)                                 133000                                     80790                                                               167820                                                    130959                              83300                       WIN10Sf
a)Ne  C.C.A                         45700       00300          6295      24825        8465       1605      31310             -       92836    28050        3264        9735       5202         92940       (9320             16860               58502      16490          36840       50152
I0.                                126000l                                     74000                                                               132000                                                   11to0o                              75000                        .1000
62600                                         2600                                                                78900                                                     2060                                Cot                          5000
3,  .) Dt-ch-reat8       .
to  _oec                        (42.20)       109          6.55      21.25        7.22      28.55      (27.75(        (20.81)   59.46      11,61   (31.23)         5.15       6.23          .5S70       13.02     (28 41)   (12.901          37.00      10.42          (26.03)    63.62
6) Mate Canal Capacity
roe).                    ~~~~~~~0.00                  .                  SE6                                                                  0,65                                                          O.nS                           OnS                         0 72
A.  Ead Width (a                          0.50      24.00          3.90        5.30       2.50o       6.50       6.59           3.00     11.30       4.20      3.80         n 00       .             626         6  0       12.20          o.t25                  3 56           4 70        7.10
2.  Depth of Elan  3e .25                             3.75         2.85        2.75       1.40       2.55        2.55           2.00      3.35       2.00      3.35         1.55       .4.50                     2 44       2.28        2.26          3.20        2.00           2~9a        3.90
6.  Fra  Boad()                           0.90        1.00         0.60        0.90       0.90       0.90        0.90           0.90      8.98       0.60      0.90         0.50                     0.90        0 60       0 90        0,50          0.90        0 60           0 90        0.92    a
7.  Bed tlo.r~                               1/20000             1/4500     2/5000      1/5005      1/4000     2/5000         2/1000    1/6700   1/50G0   2/5000         (/5006        .           *8335        /5000      /5000      2/8335        ;/5008      1/500           #1500      I/5000
I . Tn  -opL.1s6_- aI  prject
C .To  ~nhttl   ytlto                     5-ye.- period (Ott. (9 - Sept. 84)



TABLE T-4
53
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Girna & Mula Modernization
COST ESTIMATES
Girna        Mula         Total
(------------Rs M----------)
Improved Standard of O&M
Reducing chak size to 40 ha                  0.2          1.6           1.8
Communication (Radio/Telephone)              0.5          1.2           1.7
Equipment for O&M                            3.5          3.5           7.0
Additional Building for O&M                  3.2          3.1           6.3
Service roads, inspection path               5.2           -            5.2
Roads in command area                        5.2          6.7          11.9
Flow measuring devices                       0.2          0.8           1.0
Cross regulators, escapes                    0.6           -            0.6
Sub-total                             18.6         16.9          35.5
Corrective Measures
Repairs to lining                            0.4          1.6           2.0
Remodelling Distribution Network             2.5           -            2.5
Drainage                                     3.1          7.4          10.5
Sub-total                              6.0          9.0          15.0
New Works for Modernization
Lining of Canals & Branches                 11.7           -           11.7
Lining of Distribution Network               4.9          4.5           9.4
Enroute storages                             1.6          0.8           2.4
Sub-total                             18.2           5.3         23.5
Total                               42.8         31.2          74.0
Engineering & Administration                   7.5          4.9          12.4
50.3        36.1          86.4
Physical Contingencies @ 15%                   7.3          5.3          12.6
57.6        41.4          99.0
Price Contingencies                           12.7          9.1          21.8
Total Cost                          70.3         50.5         120.8



54                                 TABLE T-5
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Climatic Data for Selected Stations
Station        Pune      Kolhapur   Ahmadnagar   Sholapur   Parbhani   Amraoti
Latitude    18032' N   16042' N    19005' N    17040' N   19008' N   20056' N
Longitude   73051' E   74014' E    74055' E    75054' E   76050' E   77047' E
Elevation      559 m       570 m        657 m        479 m        423 m       370 m
Mean Monthly Rainfall in mm
January          1.9          1.55        3.3           3.6         5.12       15.0
February          .3           .54          .4          2.0         0.82       12.7
March            3.1          9.7         5.0           7.2        15.10       12.3
April           17.6         24.92       11.2          15.8        14.80       13.0
May             34.7         79.35       26.2          26.4        15.50       11.9
June           102.8        162.9       131.2         121.7       137.40      149.3
July           186.8        375.1       101.9         127.7       247.80      285.7
August         106.4        234.5        98.3         170.23      226.31      209.6
September      127.3        103.3       174.7        183.8        215.10      185.9
October         91.9        122.4        83.9          92.3        72.34       49.6
November        37.0         39.7        33.3          28.0        16.15       23.9
December         4.9            .6        7.9           6.6        22.96        5.6
Total          714.7      1,136.3       677.3         742.0       989.46      974.5
Mean Monthly Temperature in C
January         20.0         22.6        21.0          23.4        20.9        22.5
February        23.1         24.7        23.1          25.6        24.8        24.5
March           26.1         27.4        26.8          29.1        28.5        28.7
April           29.3         29.3         31.5         31.9        32.0        32.5
May             29.9         29.1        31.1          33.0        34.2        35.0
June            27.5         26.0        28.1          29.3        30.8        31.4
July            24.9         23.8        25.6          27.4        27.3        26.9
August          24.4         23.5        25.2          26.6        26.3        26.4
September       25.0         24.5        25.1          26.5        26.5        27.3
October         25.6         25.2        25.2          26.5        25.7        26.5
November        22.9         23.5        22.4          24.1        22.5        23.8
December        21.1         22.4        20.6          22.5        21.1        21.9
Annual          25.1         25.2        25.4          27.1        26.8        27.2
Mean Monthly Relative Humidity in %
January         52           44          42            40          38          40
February        44           45          34            31          29          31
March           36           41          26            28          26          25
April           38           51          26            32          29          27
May             47           62           33           46          36           29
June            69           77          62            61          65          54
July            81           87           72           70          74          77
,A-Igust        81           87           72           69          74           77
September       77           80          72            69          71          74
O"tober         66           71           58           67          59           53
N.Jvember       59           54           50           47          46          41
Decemlber       55           46           47           43          46          42
Annual          59           62           49           49          49           48



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KUKADI         Typical Suhary of Irrig,tion Requirements
AATER REQuIREMENTS AT CANAL HEAD - AREA NO  5              (    93667,HA)
(CIL M3)
JAN                     M MAR       APR         MAY         JUN         JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT         NOV         DEC    TOT
1     2     3            S   o     7     8     9    10   11    12    13   1M    15   16    17    18    19   20    21    22    23   24
RAIN          1,          n,          2h                     26.         74          97,          74.        126,         62.         24,           5, 497,
RICE UPLAN
0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.5  2.9   1.2  1.8  1,9   1,3   1.L   0.7  0.0  0,0   0,0  0.0  0.0   13,7
JOR HYB K
0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 19,0 21.1   8,1 17,0 17.8  5.3  0.0  0.0   0,0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  08,2
8AJR  KHAR
0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 17.3  3.1  8.8  8,9  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  36.1
GNUT  KHAR
0.0   o,o  0.0 0.   0.0  0n,    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0 17.6 16.9  5.9  8.4 12.8 12.4   3.4  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  77.S
VEG       K
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  n.0  0.o0  0.0  00  0.0 0o          0  0.0  0 0  2.2  0.0  1.4  2,5   1.5  1.5  0,0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    9.1
CHILLIE K
0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0 .0  n.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0,0  0.0  0.0  3,4  0.2  0.9   1,3  1,1   1.4  2,2  2,4  1.3  0.0  0.0  0.0  14.3
WHEAT  RAB
22.0 23,'  18.3  2,Q  0.1  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0 11,4 16.6 13.6 19.2 127,6
JOWR LOC R
26,9  9,4  0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   1.4 12.0 22.5 29,6 31.9 32,3 166.1
JOwR HYB P
0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   1.5  7.b 11.2  12.3  9,9  2.,4  44,9
JOWR RAT R
0'0  0.0  0.0  0.0 .0  0.0  0. 0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0 0  00  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0   1.1  2.3   2.1   2,5   2.0  0.,4  10.3
GRAM    RAB
4.8   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0,0  0.0  0,0   3.4  4,7   3,3  5.6  6.5  28,4
VEG       P
6,44  6.8  0.0  0.0  0.    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0,0  0.0  0,0   0.0   0,0  7.44  1.2  3,8  5.9  31. 
PULSE IRRK                                                                       -
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1     6.2  9.8  9.6   1.7  0.0   0,0   0.0   0.0  0,0  0,0   0,0  29 a
TOTAL - 60.   ao0,  18. -  3.   0.  O- 0       0.   0.   0.    0.  18.   38.  54.  27.  52.   54.   14            4.   7,  28.    61.   66   67.  67.  679.
CANAL EFFICIENCY   75.X



56
INDIA
MAbJARA2TwA I RRIGATIrON I IPROJ RC
5   r- of 20ed N-e-rt   P .
Up t0      Ot 79                                                   Apr 84       5-Y..r Tot0l.         0o1o1aodir.
solo  79     M1r S0      80-81      81-82      82-83      83-84      S.01 84        0.1 84 64               Soc 84
22IM                    (i3 20101.1100 700r1/.
45,000 h.)                  R      qolroal (C-1.1ti- k.)                           90          110         139        192        301                                    301                  419
311) Coo.110110o01 T.rg.t  (C-L.uIioo k.)                                 LO          80        250        220        290         301                                 4S9
(-.-nl k8)                                    10          70         70         70         70          11            301
(ili) PrJ0.t C-0  (.nnul R. 8)                                              9.1        14. 6      15.7       25.8       15 7          5. 1          76.0                 75.2
(Iv) P-r-r  n     0c01p0110  of lO-7.
0105.11 (7 00.17                                                    6          to         20         12         20           3             50                   50
KR! SHh
(6 000 h.)            (-) 70119.0200 Poogr   1/
R qui-t1   (C0.11t8. Ik)                               16           30          68        246        157        191         234            234                  256
(ii) 00.l.1iucclon TorsTg-  (CuL.1i-cV  IrA)                             20          72        126        IBO        234                                              256
(- r;q . 84)                                  20          53         53         54         54                        234
(ii2) P-o0.n  C00t (. nn B-   8)                                            0.0         3 3       23.0       10.8       10. 7                       57. 8                52 0
IIY) 1010in11080 000101200 of 28-Y0.r
Proieor (2 C1                                                       9          12         12         10         10                         53                   47
28,900 h.)             (i) 21 -8801100  10o.r  1/
10q9011.t (Co.R t.iv ki)                               41           74          74         93        172        174                         174                  514
(11) 000.11011200  001T...  (Cu.1li-. 60)                                 25          65        205        145        174                                              514
(e.nu l kn)                                   7r          40         40         40         29                         174
(i21) Troje00  C1X  (        R. 1M0) LH.6                                              10 9       12.3       125         9.1                        56.4                 86.2
(Iv) Por-oflg. C0.81.-1l    of 10-Yee
P-J1(t (7 C0.1)                                                     8           7                     a 8        6                          37                   63
(0.600 h.)            (2) 202    -41 0o     0   t/
6.qo8001 - (Cu,ul:lio  k.)                                                      20         45         83        119                         119                  376
(225 ColOlO lion- T0.0t1  (CUI.a-1200 kn)                                             209        53         86        219                                              376
(4000.1 k)                                                20         33         33         33                         119
(2212 713j-11 C00-  (A0nu1l R. M)                                           3.2         2.6        4.5        4.9         2.3                       17.5                 7121
(Iyi 01100010go COopl-rl-o otf lO2y8-
010(00I1(700.1)                                                     4           3          5          5          3                         20                   80
t:PE  WARrlR
5(000 h.)            (           inn0          1/
8.0902010.01 (Cu 8.2.120. 6.)                                                                                    26                          26                 332
(22) Oon.loltio.n T r88-1  (ChI.ltl- kn)                                                                               260         49                                  309
(A-L k.'                                                                                   26          23             49
(111) P0.j01 C0.  14       L R. H)                                          0.1         0.2        0.2        4.6         5.5         5 .2          25.8                 72.0
(i1) P7110.-1.. c009810120  of  0-0y-
YTol0-  (7 0.12                                                                                       6          6           6              is                   a2
s .000  .) (h) 202i10 lon  P               r
Requir   1  (Cu uloCivi k4)                                                                                      27                          27                  355
(ii) Con.11v01100 TOolol. (Cu  .ll ive k=)                                                                             270         40                                  342
(4.0I k.1                                                                                  27          13             40
(il22) foj-  Co-  (Annu-1 0A 8)                                             0.3         0.2        0.2        4.0         6.0         3 8           14.5                201.0
(2 -) P0100n18S CooAplftoon of 10-Y00
pro0j-.  (% C-0.)                                                                                     4          6           4              14                  86
07TAL2                   (        A) 2012-.i10  010810n 2/
to2    10(0j10-              R0qui--n8   (Cu ul-20i- krA)                           147           224        301        475        113        838         881             882                2252
(130,500  To)          (iii OoO.rrclino  T.0gt.  (C0A0I0.101    4n5                                55        739        434       i31         870         917                                2216
(4A01=  kn)                                  -!          183        196        197       T             47             917
(212) 010(11 00.1 (400A   2   00. M)                                       34.3        41.8       45 .9      52.6       49.3         14.1          238.0                452 0
( iv) 001080103  Coo pl-io  of 20-Y0.8
Troi-1t (2 C-)                                                      4           6          7          8          7           2              34                   66
95UA
.5 000 h.)            (li) CI n-cru       701T .1. (AA1001 kn)                                              15         22                                                37                  293
(1i1) rr0(-0 C00t (A-oo.l R. H)                                                         4.1         5.0                                              9.1                 69.3
(Ij PTronroo 0 08c2pl0010- of 20-Y.7r
r1oj-(0  (7 C-0.)                                                               5          6                                               11                    89
4 ,200 h.)           (l23 C00001--0i0  T-9-811  (40021 kn)                                                  (2        (5                                                27                  453
(lil) "I0(001cl 001 (Af_oi R.                                                            3.4        3 .6                                             7.0                 93.4
(iv) r 1001106* CoAOO OLOO of 20-Year
p103rd   (7 0001)                                                               3          4                                                 7                  93
s3AiS0                 (    0001007       00.(ii) C--0in   T--  (Annol ... )                                 27         37                                                64                  746
rar Too 070(00'J       (iii) 010j(-0 C000  (AnootI R. M)                                                       7.5        8.6                                              16.1                162.7
:9,000 2. (hvl 0010 00- g. CoopOl.on of 10-Y-oo
P7oj0-0  (7 C .01                                                               4          5                                                 9                   92
/  The agreed pl72   ,,g -n.in   2.g i  oOco pOO     10140 Y0-1 iii 2  vn.   of 21-8 0 i     o 0911 lot  foloot block
Th7  pr0 In which this oh, lve is achlov d            dS i-dioired 1020  Rood 0 r04 leqO  s for 1984/63. .od in
0008 1000 fos 12983/S4,  y81           f11  k- fully 600.0..
. ,   01201  00001001 04 fi-  I  .... RD S Shedule of 0. R.    f-r 197S/79  nd i-cludo  157 rhy.ic.l Con-lnOny bu
no llosoonc for prio0 00n00.0.



TABLE T-8
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
MAEARASETRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Rs Million                   US$ Million              %
Local   Foreign   Total    Lccal   Foreign   Total    of (A)
1.  Dams                             570      241        811      66.2     28.0      94.2       35.3
2. Main Canal &
Branches (Lined)                 669      119        788     77.9      13.8      91.7       34.3
3. Distribution (below 100
cusecs) Network (Unlined)         56        6         62      6.5       0.9       7.4        2.8
4. Lining Distribution
Network down to minor
canal outlet (40 ha)              29        7         36      3.4       0.9       4.3        1.6
5. Lining subminor canals
(40 ha to 8 ha level)             27        7        34       3.1       0.8       3.9       1.5
6. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                  48        6         54      5.7       0.5       6.2        2.3
7.  Roads in Command Area            102       18        120     11.8       2.1      13.9        5.2
8.  O&M (Bldgs. & equipment)          12        4         16       1.2      0.6       1.8        0.6
9. Extension & Land Develop-
ment Agency (bldgs. &
equipment)                        15        1         16      1.7       0.1      18         0.7
10.  Drainage                            4      -           4       0.5       -        0.5        0.2
11. Training in Water
Management                        21        4         25      2.4       0.5       2.9        1.1
12. Agricultural Training
and Research                       6        1          7      0.7       0.1       0.8       0.3
13.  Monitoring & Evaluation             3      -           3       0.3       -        0.3        0.1
14.  Pilot Water Management             12      -          12       1.4       -        1.4        0.5
15. Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                   310       -         310     36.1        -       36.1      13.5
Total (A)                   1,884      414     2,298    218.9       48.3    267.2      100.0
16.  Modernizing Irrigation
Systems of Girna & Mula
Irrigation Schemes                63       11         74      7.3       1.3       8.6
17. Engineering and Admini-
stration                         378       -         378     43.9        -       43.9
Total (B) Base Cost         2,325      425     2,750    270.1       49.6    319.7
Physical Contingencies           349       61        410     40.6       7.1      47.7
Total (C)                   2,674      486     3,160    310.7       56.7    367.4
Expected Price Increases         599      120        719     69.6      14.0      83.6
TOTAL                       3,273      606     3,879    380.3       70.7    451.0
NOTES:  1)  Price increases are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment - average 6.7%.
2) US$1 = Rs 8.6



58                                 TABLE T-8
Page 2 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Agricultural
Extension and Land Development Agency
(Rs Million)
Scheme             A. Extension        Land Development Agency           Total
Bldgs  Equip  Total   Bldgs  Equip  Total   Bldgs  Equip  Total
Bhima                  4.3    0.3    4.6       0.5    1.2    1.7        4.8    1.5    6.3
Krishna                3.9    0.4    4.3       0.5    0.9    1.4        4.4    1.3    5.7
Kukadi                 2.5    0.3    2.8       0.5    0.7    1.2        3.0    1.0    4.0
U. Penawnga            2.1    0.3    2.4       0.2    0.4      0        2.3    0.7    3.C
U. Wardha              2.1    0.3    2.4       0.2    0.4    0.6        2.3    0.7    3.0
Warna                  2.1    0.3    2.4       0.2    0.4    0.6        2.3    0.7    3.0
TOTAL           17.0    1.9   18.9        2.1    4.0    6.1    19.1    5.9   25.0



TABLE T-8
Page 3 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cost Estimates for CADA
Operation and Maintenance Buildings and Egtdpment
(Rs Million)
Buildigs        Equipment          Total
Bhima                       8.7               5,3            14.0
Krishna                      2.5               6.3              8.8
Kukadi                       1.4               3,6              5.0
U. Penganga                   -                2.0              2.0
U. Wardha                                      1.1              1.1
Warna                         -                1.1              1.1
TOTAL                    12.6             19.4              32.0
Note:   i)  Provision for buildings for 0 & M of the main system
included in canal estimates of individual schemes.
The above table includes buildings (houses, offices,
chowkis) required for personnel located in the distri-
butary canal command blocks on a scale of 1 canal colony
for each 3000 ha.
ii) Physical contingencies not included.



60
TABLE T-8B
Page 4 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
BHIMA SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs Million                US$ Million                %
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total          Base Cost
1.  Dams                                20.2      8.6    28.8       2.4      1.1      3.5         5.6
2.  Main Canal & Branches
(Lined)                           230.6    41.0   271.6    26.8         4.8    31.6          50.8
3.  Distribution (Below 100
cfs) Network (Unlined)             36.1      3.9    40.0       4.2      0.3      4.5          7.2
4.  Lining Distribution Network
down to 8 ha                       25.7       6.3    32.0      3.0      0.7      3.7          5.9
S   .bminurs  F'-ir Chaimels
ar Field )ains                     29.2       3.4    ,2.6      3.3      0.5      3.8          6.1
6.  Roads in Command Area               47.4      8.3    55.7       5.5      0.9    65i          10.3
7.  O&M Works (Bldgs. &
Equipment)                           8.3      3.5    11.8       1.0     0.3      1.3          2.1
8.  Extension & Land Devel.
(Bldgs. & Equipment)                5.0      0.3      5.3      0.6       -       0.6          1.0
9.  Drainage                             4.0       -       4.0      0.4       -       0.4         0.1
10.  Land Acquisition and
Rehabilitation                     55.3        --   55.3        6.4       -       6.4        10.1
Total (A)                    461.8    75.3   537.1    53.6         8.6    62.2        100.0
11.  Engineering & Administration    76.3    14.-L         90.4      8.9      1.6    10.5
Total (B) Base Cost          538.1    89.4   627.5    62.5    10.2    72.7
12.  Physical Contingencies              81.8    13.5    95.3        9.5      1.6    11.1
Total (C)                    619.9   102.9   722.8    72.0    11.8    83.8
13.  Price Contingeni  as               116.3    20.9   137.2    13.6         2.6    16.2
TOTAL COST                   736.2   123.8   860.0    85.6    14.4   100.0
NOTES:   ?  Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:  Average 6.7%.
V T7S$1 = Rs 8.6



61
TABLE T-8
Page 5 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KRISHNA SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs. Million                US$ Million               %
Local  Foreign Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Base Cost
1.  Dams                                 81.9      34.7 116.6        9.5       4.0   13.5       29.0
2. Main Canal and Branches
(Lined)                          109.0      19.5 129.4       12.8       2.2   15.0       32.3
3. Distribution (below 100 cfs)
Network (Unlined)                 12.0       1.3  13.5         1.4      0.3    1.7         3.7
4.  Lining Distribution Network
Down to 8 ha                      26.5       6.5  33.0         3.0      0.8    3.8         8.2
5. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                  18.1       2.1  20.2         2.2      0.1    2.3         5.0
6.  Roads in Command Area                36.0       6.2  42.2        4.2       0.7    4.9       10.4
7. Extension & Land Dev.
(Bldgs. and Equip.)                4.6       0.2   4.8        0.5        -      0.5       1.1
8.  Drainage                              2.1        -    2.1        0.2        -     0.2        0.4
9. Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                    39.0        -   39.0         4.6       -      4.6        9.9
TOTAL (A)                      330.3      70.5 400.8       38.4       8.1   45.5      100.0
10.  Engineering & Administration         56.0      13.6  69.6        6.5       1.7    8.2
TOTAL (B) Base Cost            386.3      84.1 470.4       44.9       9.8   54.7
11.  Physical Contingencies               58.1      12.5  70.6        6.8       1.5    8.3
TOTAL (C)                      444.4      96.6 541.0       51.7      11.2   62.9
12.  Price Contingencies                 100.1      17.4 117.5       11.6       2.0   13.6
TOTAL COST                     544.5    114.0 658.5        63.3      13.2   76.5
Notes: 1) Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:
average 6.7%.
2) US$ = 8.6 Indian Rs.



62
TABLE T-8
Page 6 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KUKADI SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs. Million                US$ Million                 %
Local  Fore:gn  Total    Local  Foreign  Total          Base Cost
1.  Dams                               134.0    56.8   190.8        15.6      6.6    22.2        36.9
2.  Main Canal & Branches
(Lined)                         156.5    27.8   184.3        18.2      3.3    21.5         35.8
3. Distribution (below 100 cfs
Network (Unlined)                 20.3      2.2    22.5       2.4      0.2      2.6         4.3
4.  Lining Distribution Network
Down to 8 ha                      18.9      4.6    23.5       2.2      0.5      2.7         4.5
5. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                  14.9      1.7    16.6       1.7      0.2      1.9         3.2
6.  Roads in Command Area               35.2      6.2    41.4        4.1      0.7     4.8          7.9
7. Extension & Land Dev.
(Bldgs. and Equip.)               3.2      0.2      3.4       0.4      0.0     0.4          0.7
8.  Drainage                             0.3      0.0      0.3        -        -       -
9. Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                    34.3       -     34.3       4.0       -       4.0         6.7
TOTAL (A)                     417.6    99.5   517.1        48.6    11.5    60.1         100.0
10.  Engineering & Administration        72.8    18.7    91.5         8.5      2.1    10.6
TOTAL (B) Base Cost           490.4   118.2   608.6        51.1    13.6    70.7
11.  Physical Contingencies              73.6    17.7    91.3         8.5      2.1    10.6
TOTAL (C)                     564.0   135.9   699.9        65.6    15.7    81.3
12.  Price Contingencies                136.8    23.9   160.4        15.9      2.8    18.7
TOTAL COST                    700.8   159.,8   860.6       81.5    18.5   100.0
Notes:  1) Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:
average 6.7%.
2)  US$ - 8.6 Indian Rs.



63
TABLE T-8
Page 7 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UPPER PENGANGA SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs. Million                US$ Million                %
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total         Base Cost
1.  Dams                                69.1    29.2    98.3       8.0       3.4    11.4        20.2
2. Main Canal & Branches
(Lined)                         208.8    37.1   245.9       24.3      4.3    28.6        50.9
3. Distribution (below 100 cfs)
Network (Unlined)                11.5      1.3    12.8        1.3     0.2      1.5         2.7
4.  Lining Distribution Network
Down to 8 ha                      5.5      1.3      6.8       0.6     0.2      0.8         1.4
5. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                  5.8      0.7      6.5      0.7      0.1      0.8         1.4
6.  Roads in Command Area               10.8     1.9    12.7        1.3      0.2     1.5         2.7
7. Extension & Land Dev.
(Bldgs. and Equip.)               2.4      0.1     2.5       0.3       -       0.3         0.5
8.  Drainage                             0.4       -      0.4       0.1       -      0.1         0.2
9. Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                   96.5       -      96.5      11.2      -      11.2        20.0
TOTAL (A)                     410.8    71.6   482.4       47.8      8.4    56.2        100.0
10.  Engineering & Administration        59.6    13.4    73.0        6.9      1.6     8.5
TOTAL (B) Base Cost           470.4    85.0   555.4       54.7    10.0    64.7
11.  Physical Contingencies              70.6    12.8    83.4        8.2      1.5     9.7
TOTAL (C)                     541.0    97.8   638.8       62.9    11.5    74.4
12.  Price Contingencies                120.1    21.1   141.2       14.0      2.4    16.4
TOTAL COST                    661.1   118.9   780.0       76.9    13.9    90.8
Notes:  1) Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:
average 6.7%.
2) US$ = 8.6 Indian Rs.



64
TABLE T-8
Page 8 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UPPER WARDHA SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs. Mil:Lion              US$ Million               %
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total    Base Cost
1.  Dams                              127.7    54.1   181.8       14.8      6.3    21.1       44.4
2.  Main Canal & Branches
(Lined)                         81.1    14.4    95.4         9.4     1.6    11.0       23.3
3. Distribution (below 100 cfs)
Network (Unlined)                6.8      0.7     7.5        0.8      0.1     0.9        1.9
4.  Lining Distribution Network
Down to 8 ha                     2.3      0.6      2.9       0.3      0.1     0.4        0.8
5. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                 5.3      0.6     5.9        0.6      0.1     0.7        1.5
6.  Roads in Command Area              10.2     1.8    12.0        1.2      0.2     1.4        2.9
7.  Extension & Land Dev.
(Bldgs. and Equip.)              2.4      0.1     2.5        0.3      -       0.3       0.6
8.  Drainage                            0.6      -       0.6       0.1       -      0.1        0.2
9.  Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                  99.5       -     99,5       11.6       -    -11.6       24.4
TOTAL (A)                    335.8    72.3   408.1        39.1     8.4    47.5      100.0
10.  Engineering & Administration       45.0    13.5    58.5        5.2      1.6     6.8
TOTAL (B) Base Cost          380.8    85.8   466.6        44.3    10.0    54.3
11.  Physical Contingencies             57.1    12.9    70.0        6.6      1.5     8.1
TOTAL (C)                    437.9    98.7   536.6        50.9    11.5    62.4
12.  Price Contingencies               107.8    19.0   126.8       12.5      2.2    14.7
TOTAL COST                   545.7   117.7   663.4        63.4    13.7    77.1
Notes: 1) Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:
average 6.7%.
2) US$ = 8.6 Indian Rs.



65                            TABLE T-8
Page 9 of 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
WARNA SCHEME
Cost Estimates
Rs. Million                 US$ Million               %
Local  Toreign  Total       Local  Fo-ig&a  Total    Base Cost
1.  Dams                             157.1    66.6   223.7         18.3      7.7    26.0       52.3
2.  Main Canal & Branches
(Lined)                        113.3    20.1   133.4        13.2      2.4    15.6       31.4
3. Distribution (below 100 cfs)
Network (Unlined)                5.1      0.6      5.7        0.6     0.1      0.7        1.4
4.  Lining Distribution Network
Down to 8 ha                     3.1      0.7      3.8       0.4      0.1      0.5        1.0
5. Subminors, Field Channels
and Field Drains                 3.7      0.5      4.2       0.4      0.1      0.5        1.0
6.  Roads in Command Area               9.4     1.6    11.0         1.0      0.3     1.3        2.6
7. Extension & Land Dev.
(Bldgs. and Equip.)              2.4      0.1     2.5        0.3       -       0.3       0.6
8.  Drainage                            0.6      -       0.6        0.1       -      0.1        0.2
9. Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation                  40.4       -      40.4       4.7       -       4.7        9.5
TOTAL (A)                    335.1    90.2   425.3        39.0    10.7    49.7       100.0
10.  Engineering & Administration    55.8    16.8    72.6            6.5      1.9     8.4
TOTAL (B) Base Cost          390.9   107.0   497.9        45.5    12.6    58.1
11.  Physical Contingencies             58.7    16.0    74.7         6.8      1.9     8.7
TOTAL (C)                    449.6   123.0   572.6        52.3    14.5    66.8
12.  Price Contingencies              109.3    19.8   127.4         12.6      2.2    14.8
TOTAL COST                   558.9   142.8   701.7        64.9    16.7    81.6
Notes:  1) Price contingencies are taken at 7% on works, 5% on establishment:
average 6.7%.
2) US$ = 8.6 Indian Rs.



66                                  TABLE 1-3
,age 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION.II PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates for the Six
Irrigation and Two Modernization Schemes
(US$ Mil:Lion)
Mula
Bhima   Krishna   Kukadi   U. Penganga   U. Wardha   Warna   Girna   Total
1.  Dams                      3.35    13.56      22.19       11.43         21.14      26.01             97m58
2.  Main Canals &
Branches (Lined)         31.58    15.05      21.43       28.59         11.09     15.51            123.25
3.  Distribution
below 100 cusecs
(Unlined)                 4.65     1.57       2.62        1.49         0.87       0.66             11.36
4.  Lining of (3)
down to 8 ha              3.72      3.84      2.73        0.79          0.34      0.44             11.86
5.  Subminors, Field
Channels and Drains       3.79      2.35      1.93        0.76          0.69      0.49             10.01
6.  Roads in Command Area    6.48       4.91      4.81        1.48          1.40       1.28             20.36
7.  Extension & Land
Development (Bldgs.
& Equipment & Incre-
mental Staff)             0.62      0.56      0.40        0.29          0.29      0.29              2.45
8.  Drainage                  0.47      0.24      0.03        0.05          0.07      0.07               0.93
9.  Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation of
Villages                  6.43      4.53      3.99       11.22         11.57      4.70   _         42.44
TOTAL                  61.08    46.61      60.13       56.10        47.46      49.45            320.84
TOTAL (Including Mula & Girna)                                                           8.61   329,45
10.  O&M Works (Bldgs.,
Equipment & Incre-
mental Staff)             1.37       -         -           -             -         -                 3.L3
11.  Training, Research
Monitoring & Pilot
Water Management           -                                                       -                5.48
Base Cost of the Operation                                                                      338.05
Engineering and Administration                                                                 54. 42
TOTAL                                                                                         392.48
Physical Contingencies                                                                         58.84
TOTAL                                                                                         451.32
Expected Price Increases                                                                       99.42
TOTAL COST                                                                                    550.74



67
TABLE T-9
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates for the Six
Irrigation and Two Modernization Schemes
(Rs Million)
Mula
Bhima   Krishna   Kukadi   U. Penganga   U. Wardha   Warna   Girna   Total
1.  Dams                       28.8    116.6       190.8       98.3         181.8      223.7              840
2.  Main Canals &
Branches (Lined)          271.6    129.4       184.3      245.9          95.4      133.4            1,060
3.  Distribution
below 100 cusecs
(Unlined)                  40.0      13.5      22.5        12.8           7.5        5.7              102
4. Lining of (3)
down to 8 ha               32.0      33.0       23.5        6.8           2.9        3.8              102
5.  Subminors, Field
Channels and Drains        32.6      20.2       16.6        6.5           5.9        4.2               86
6.  Roads in Command Area      55.7      42.2       41.4       12.7          12.0       11.0              175
7.  Extension & Land
Development (Bldgs.,
Equipment & Incre-
mental Staff)               5.3       4.8        3.4        2.5           2.5        2.5               21
8.  Drainage                    4.0       2.1        0.3        0.4           0.6        0.6                8
9.  Land Acquisition &
Rehabilitation of
Villages                   55.3      39.0       34.3       96.5          99.5       40.4              365
TOTAL                   525.3    400.8      517.1       482.4         408.1      425.3            2,759
TOTAL (Including Mula and Girna)                                                           74.0   2,833
10.  O&M Workg (Rld9g.,
Equipment & Incre-
mental Staff)              11.8        -          -          -             -          -                27
11. Training, Research
Monitoring & Pilot
Water Management             -         -          -          -             -          -                47
Base Cost of the Operation                                                                        2,907
Engineering & Administration                                                                      468
TOTAL                                                                                           3,375
Physical Contingencies                                                                            506
TOTAL                                                                                           3,881
Expected Price Increases                                                                          855
TOTAL COST                                                                                      4,736



68
TABLE T-10
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Composite List - Equipment and Vehicles
Quantity
Item                        IDA            IFAD          Method of
Component      Component       Procurement
1. Light Equipment
Tippers                            301              22               LCB
Trucks                             109              32               LCB
Tankers                            161              17               LCB
Compressors                         86              34               LCB
Road Rollers                       120              25               LCB
Crushers/Granulators               100              17               LCB
Concrete Mixers                    137             30                LCB
Concrete Mixers (manual)            30                               LCB
Vibrators (larger)                  12               8               LCB
Vibrators                          135               8               LCB
Compactors                           6                               LCB
Asphalt Boilers/Sprayers            31               8               LCB
Asphalt Mixers                      18               4               LCB
Generators                           4                               LCB
Generators/Welders                   4               1               LCB
Battery Chargers                     3               1               LCB
Compressors                          1                1             LCB
Pumps - Diesel 20 HP                  7              1               LCB
Pumps - Diesel 10 HP                11                               LCB
Pumps - Diesel  8 HP                17               4               LCB
Pumps - Diesel  5 HP                26               8               LCB
Centering Trestle                    3               1               LCB
Subtotal  Cost (Rs Million) 110.3             18.1
2. Heavy Equipment
Excavators                          12               3               ICB
Crawler Tractor 400 HP               4                               ICB
Crawler Tractor 275 HP               7                               ICB
Crawler Tractor 180 HP              17                               ICB
Crawler Tractor  75 HP               5               1               ICB
Scrapers                             6                               ICB
Wheel Loaders                         5                              ICB
Wheel Dozers 400 HP                   2                              ICB
Dumpers (35 tons)                    5                               ICB
Vibrator, Roller                     1                               ICB
Vibrator, Impact                      2                              ICB
Water Wagon                           1                              ICB
Subtotal  Cost (Rs Million)  90.,4             4.1
3. Vehicles
Automobile                            7              2               LCB
4x4 Units                           83              26               LCB
Motorcycles                        139              84               LCB
Bicycles                           716            470                LCB
Subtotal  Cost (Rs Million)   7.9              3.1
4.  Instrumentation Cost (Rs Million)  1.0                -
TOTAL  Cost (Rs Million)           209.6            25.3
US$ Equivalent                       24.4 M          2.9 M



69
TABLE T-ll
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Annual Expenditure Schedule for the Eight Schemes
(US$ Million)
Total
Oct 79                                      Apr 84    Oct 79
to                                          to         to
Mar 80  80-81   81-82   82-83   83-84        Sept 84   Sept 84
Bhima                    12.5    14.9    16.4    19.3    16.5           4.1       83.7
Krishna                   7.2    11.3    13.5    12.1    12.3           7.3       63.7
Kukadi                    8.6    11.4    14.5    19.5    19.8           7.9       81.7
U. Penganga               7.3    13.7    14.3    15.4    15.8           7.8       74.3
U. Wardha                 3.4    10.4    13.1    13.7    13.9           7.8       62.3
Warna                     5.0    13.6    13.4    13.4    13.9           7.2       66.5
Training, Research
Monitoring, Pilot
Water Management          0.1      2.1     2.1      1.9     0.9         0.2        7.3
TOTAL               44.1    77.4    87.3    95.3    93.1          42.3     439.5
Girna and Mula            0.7      2.6     3.2      2.6      2.0        0.6       11.7
TOTAL               44.8    80.0    90.5    97.9    95.1          42.9     451.2
Probable Price
Increase                  1.3      7.9    16.1    25.5    32.3         16.3       99.4
TOTAL               46.1    87.9   106.6   122.4   127.4          59.2     550.6



70                                  TABLE T-12
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA FY
& Semester                        Semester                      Cumulative
------- US$M    -----------
1980
1st
2nd                                  5                             5
1981
1st                                13                             18
2nd                                 18                            36
1982
lst                                 22                            58
2nd                                 26                            84
1983
1st                                 33                           117
2nd                                33                            150
1984
1st                                26                            176
2nd                                22                            198
1985
1st                                 12                           210



71                            TABLE T-13
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
US$M
1.  Civil Works                    170.0                70% of expenditures
before March 31, 1983;
50% of expenditures
after March 31, 1983
2.  Equipment and Vehicles          24.0                 100% of foreign
expenditure; or
100% of exfactory
cost; or 70%
3.  Technical Assistance 1/           6.0                     100%
4.  Unallocated                      10.0
TOTAL                        210.0
1/ This category includes pilot water management works to incremental
standards and training in water management, agricultural training
and research, monitoring and evaluation and incremental establish-
ment for O&M.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II
Incremental Agricultural Production in '000 Tons
Upper       Upper                 Total
Bhima     Krishna      Kukadi      Penganga      Wardha    Warna      Project
W-W        W-W          W-W          W-W         W-W        W-W        W-W
Sorghum                    142.19       74.87       169.14       103.70        67.17      46.04     608.11
Wheat                        42.91      32.83        62.04        90.42        42.19      39.93      310.32
Paddy                         2.91      25.88         4.36        15.75        13.72      94.73      157.35
Pulses                       4.12        4.49        14.43        -2.65         0.08       5.87       26.18
Other                       25.03       -0.27        16.42          -            -        10.33       57.51
Total Foodgrains         217.16      137.83       266.39       203.66       140.54    196.90    1162.48
Groundnuts                  21.26       17.58        27.56        12.06         7.60       1.11       87.17
Vegetables                   34.96     107.26       214.50        53.55        78.75      38.40      527.42
Sugarcane                  101.43      757.77       140.24       139.90        79.67   1219.27    2408.28
0I1
Cotton                      21.42        4.03          -          37.42        15.99        -         78.84
Note: W-W - Incremental Production = future with project minus future without project.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II
BHIHA SCHEME
Agricultural Production
('000 t)
1/    Bhima   2/         Bhima   3/    Total                 Bhima              Bhima           Total               Bhima               Bhima           Total
Crops                                  X7  Light Soils   7   Heavy Soils          Bhima        %   Light Soils   X   Heavy Soils         Bhims        %   Light Soils   %   Heavy Soils          Bhima
Kharif  lowar Hybrid                    -         -        -         -                                   -                                            25      77.18       25      33.08          110.26
Bajra Hybrid                   15       4.67       4        .53           5.2         15       5.29        4       .61           5.9          10     17.64       -         -             17.64
Paddy Drilled                   1       1.32       -        -             1.32         1       1.50       -       -              1.5           2      4.41       -         -               4.41
Maize                          -         -          2      9.52           9.52        -         -          2     11.91          11.91          5     17.64         5      7.56            25.2
Groundnuts                      2       1.23      -         -             1.23         2       1.43       -       -              1.43         15     19.85        5       2.84           22.69
Cotton L.S.                    -         -        -         -              -          -         -         -       -                -           5      7.94       20      13.61            21.55
H.S.                    -                   I        .11            ,11        -        -          1        .13            .13        -         -         -         -
Chillies                        1        .44      -         -              .44         1        .51      -        -                .51         2      1.94       -         -               1.94
Fodder                          1      17.64        1      7.58          25.22         1      20.29        1      8.69          28.98         -         -        -         -
Vegetables                      1      13.23       -        _            13.23         1      15.44       -       -             15.44          2     35.28       -         -              35.28
Pulses                         13       3.44(ni)  10       1.13           4.57        13       4.59       10      1.51           6.1          10      5.29       10       2.27            37.56
Pigeon Pea (TUR)                2       1.06       7       1.59           2.65         2       1.24        7      1.85            3.09        -         -        -         -
Cropping Intensity             36                 25                                  36                  25                                  76                 65
Rabi   Wheat                             2      2.29        3       1.47           3.76         2      2.65        3       1.70           4.35        15      33.08       15      14.18           47.26
Jowar Local                    56      19.76      63       9.52          29.28        56      24.70       63     11.91          36.61         20     28.22       25      15.12            43.34
Hybrid                   -        -          -        -              -          -         -        -         -              -            5     13.23        5       5.67          418.90
Ratoon                    2             -        -           -            -              -         -         -              -           2       4.41        2       1.89            6.30
Gram/Peas                       2       1.06        3       .45           1.51         2       1.24        3        .51           1.81         5       5.29        5      2.27             7.56
Veg./Onions                    -         -             -            -            -              -         -         -              -           2     35.28         1     15.12            50.4
Safflover/Linseed               4       1.41       8       1.36           2.77         4       1.59        8      3.18           4.77          -        -        -         -
Cropping Intensity             64                 77                                  66                  77                                 49                  54
Perennials
Sugarcane                       2    141.13       -         -           141.13         2    156.56        -        -           156.56         12    257.99       -         _            257.99
Cropping Intensity            102                102                                 102                 102                                 137                 119
Note:  P - Present                                                                                                                                                                                            09
W - Future without
W - Future with                                                                                                                                                                                        0 1
1/  % of net CCA
2/ Light Soils net CCA 88,200 tba
3/ Heavy Soils net CCA 37,800 ba
TOTAL       126,000 ha



INDIA
M4AHARASHTRA IRRIGATION 11
KRISHNA SCHEME
Agricultural Production ('000 tons)
------------------_---P-_---------------------_           --     ---------------    a-------------       ---         ---- -
Krishna        Krishna        Krishna    Total             Krishna        Krishna         Krishna    Total             Krishna        Krishna         Krishna    Total
Crops                      7      Dom          K Kanher    7.  Arphal    Krishna      }      Dom      2   Kanher    1   Arphal    Krishna         1      Dow      7   Kanher    2   Arphal    Krishna
KHARIF
Jover Hybrid             10    4.48    10    1.96    10        3.92      10.36      21   10.82    21    4.73    27    12.17          27.72      30    33.60   30    14.70   25    34.30          82.60
Jowvr Local              18    3.46    18    1.51    25        4.20       9.17       7    1.56       7    0.69      8      1.59       3.82      -       -      -       -       -       -          -
Paddy Transplanted       -       -      -       -               -                   -       -       -      -       -                   -         5      6.40    5       2.80   -       -          9.20
Paddy Drilled             4    1.92      4    0.84       2     0.84       3.60       4    2.17       4    0.95      2      0.95       4.07      15    12.00   15        5.25    5      3.50      20.75
Haize                    -       _      -       -        1     0.28       0.28      -       -       -       -       1      0.34       0.34      -       -       -       -      -       -          -
Bajra                    12    1.34    12    0.59        4     0.39       2.32      12    1.54    12    0.67        4      0.45       2.66      -       -       -       -      -       -          -
Groundnut.               20    4.48    20    1.96    11        2.16       8.60      20    5.18    20    2.27    11         2.50       9.95      17      8.16   17       3.57   20      8.40      20.13
Cotton L.S.              -       -       -                                  -       -               -                                                           -       -        8     4.03       4.03
Chillies                  2    0.32       2    0.14      3     0.42       0.88       2    0.37       2    0.16      3      0.49       1.02          -           -       -        3     0.92       0.92
Turmeric/Ginger          -       -      -       _       -        -         -        -       -       _      -       -        -          -         5      4.80    5       2.10    2      1.68       8.58
Vegetables                1    4.80       1    2.10    -        -         6.90       1    5.44       1    2.10    -         -         7.54       3    19.20    3       8.4Q    5    28.00        55.60
Pulses k.!.              16    1.54    16    0.67        9     0.76       2.97      16    2.05    16    0.90        9      1.01       3.96       5      0.96    5      0.42      2     0.34       1.72_
Fodder                    4   25.60      4   11.20       5    28.00      64.80       4   29.44       4   12.88      5    32.20       74.52      -       -       -       -      -       -          -
Pigeon P.e               =      =       -       -        6     1.0;       1.01      -       -       -      -        6      1.18       1.18      -       -       -      -       -       -          _
Cropping latenulty       87             87              76                          87              87              76                          80              80             80
RABI
Wheat                     2    0.83       2    0.36      2     0.73        1.92       2    0.96      2    0.42       2     0.84       2.22      25    20.00   25        8.75   18      6.30      35.05
Jowar Local              17    2.18    16    3.09    18        6.55      11.82      17    2.72    16    1.19    18         2.52       6.43      10      5.12   10       2.24   10      4.48      11.84
Jowar Hybrid             -       -      -       -       -       -          -        -       -       -       -      -        -          -         7      6.72    5       2.10    7      5.88      14.70
Jowar Rstoon             -       -      -       -       -       -          -        -       -       _      -       -        -          -         2      1.60    2      0.70    2       1.40       3.70
Maize                    -                                    -           -       -       -                                            -        -       -       -       -        3     2.73        2.73
Gram/Pess                 3    0.38       3    0.17      2     0.22       0.71        3    0.48      3    0.21       2     0.28       0.97      10      3.84   10       1.68   10      3.36        8.88
Vegetables/Onions        -       -      -       -       -       -                                                                      -         4    25.60    4    11.20    4    22.40          59.20
Potatoes                 -       -      -       -                          ' -  -   -       -       -       -                          -         3    19.20    3        8.40    2    11.20       38.80
Cropping Intensity       22              22
HOT WEATHER
Groundnut                -       -      -       - -     -        -          -                                                                    5      3.20    5       1.40    5      2.80        7.40     a
Fodder                   -       -      -       -       -        -          -       -       -       -       -      -        -          -         2    22.50    2        9.80    2    19.60       51.80
PERENNIALS
Sugarcane                 1   25.60       1   11.20      6   134.80    171.60         1   28240      1   12.43      6   149.10    183.93        12   374.40   12   163.80   15   409.50    947.70           '"~
Lucerne                  -       -      -       -       -       -           -       -       -       -       -      -        -          -         2    51.20    2    22.40  --          -         73.60
Total Cropping
Intensity          110             110            104                          110            110             104                         162             160             158



INDIA
MAHARASRTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
KUKADI, UPPER WARDhA AND UPPER PENGANGA SCHEMES
Agricultural Production ('000 tons)
P             W                            P                     U                      P p4 U                            w
Upper         Upper          Upper           Upper            Upper            Upper
Crops                    %   Kukadi   %   Kukadi   7   Kukadi   %   Wardha   I   Wardha   7   Wardha   1   Penganga   7   Penganga    .   Penganga
KIARIF
Jowar Hybrid           -      -       -     -       21   97.02    8    8.40   14   16.91   30   78.75   10    17.64    20    40.57               30   132.30
Jowar Local            -      -       -     -       -       -      16    7.20   10    5.25    3    1.58   25    18.90    15    13.23              5      4.41
Paddy Transplanted   -        -       -     -       -       -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -        -       -        -       -        -
Paddy Drilled           1    1.98    1    2.24    2    6.60    1    1.13    1    1.28    8   15.00    3                5.67      3      9.45      8    25.20
Maize                    1    1.32    1    1.58   -         -          -      -      -       -      -      -       -        -            _       -        -
Groundnuts               2    1.85    2    2.14   15   29.70    6    3.15    6    3.65   10   11.25    3               2.65      3      3.06      8    15.12
Cotton L.S.                                                        -       -      -      -      20   27.00   -          -       -                20    45.36
Cotton h.S.            -                                           52   11.70   52   13.65   10    2.64   28    10.58    28    12.35    10               4.41
Chillies                1    0.66    1    0.77    2    2.90    1    0.38    1    0.43    5    4.13    3                1.89      3      2.19      4      5.54
Turmeric/Ginger
Vegetables               1   19.80    1   23.10    3   79.20    2   22.50    2   26.25    4   60.00    1    18.90                1    22.05       3    75.60
Pulses                  8    3.17    8    4.22   10    7.92    1    0.22    1    0.30    2    0.90   10                3.78    10       5.04      2      1.51
Fodder                  3   79.20    3   91.08   -          -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -        -       -        -       -        -
Bajra                  15    6.93   15    7.92   10   26.40    1    0.26    1    0.30   -               -       1      0.44      1      0.50    -         -
Pigeon Pea              1    0.79    1    0.92   -          -       6    2.70    6    3.15   -          -       5      3.78      5      4.41     -        -
Cropping Intensity   33               33            63             94             94            92             89               89               93
RABI
Wheat Irrigated          2    3.43    2    3.96   20   66.00    1    0.98    1    1.13   19   35.63             1      1.64      1      1.89    30    94.50
Wheat Rainfed          -      -       -      -      -       -       3    1.13    3    1.31   -          -       3      1.89      3      2.19    -         -
Jowar Local            55   29.04   55   36.30   20   42.24   -            -      -      -      -       -       3      1.51      3      1.89    -         -
Jowar Hybrid           -      -       -     -       15   59.40   -         -     -       -       4    9.00   -          -       -        -        6    22.68
Jowar Ratoon           -      -       -      -        2    6.60   -        -      -      -      -       -      -        -       -        -       -        -
Maize                  -      -       -      -       -      -      -                     -
Gram/Peas                2    1.06    2    1.32    8   12.67    3    0.90    3    1.13    4    3.60    6               3.02      6      3.78      6      9.07
Vegetables/Onions    -'    -          -     -        3   79.20   -         -     -       -        2   30.00   -         -       -        -        3    75.50
Potatoes               -      -       -     -        3   79.20   -         -     -       -       1   15.00   -          -       -        -       -        -
Safflower/Linseed        7    3.70    7    4.16   -         -      -       -     -       -      -       -       6      3.02      6      3.40    -         -
Cropping Intensity   66               66             71             7              7            30             19               19               45
HOT WEATHER
Groundnuts             -             -  -    -      -       -      -                            -       -      -                -        -       - 
Fodder                 -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -
PERENNIALS                                                        
Sugarcane                1  105.60    1  117.15    2  257.40    1   60.00    1   66.56    2  146.25             2   201.60       2   223.65       3   368.55                 -HN
Lucerne                -      -       -     -       -       -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -        -       -        -        3   302.40                0
Total Cropping
Intensity         100           100            136           102            102            124           110              110              144



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II
WARNA SCHEME
Agricultural Production ('000 tons)
--- -----------  --P--- ----------_-    ------------__--- z  -------___-----             -----__-------  ------_----
Total                                         Total                                        Total
Crops                            .  W. Area   .   E. Area   Warna           X    W. Area    7   E. Area   Warns          %   W. Area   7    E. Area    Warn&
KHARIF
Jowar hybrid                  16      5.15    7    11.42    8.20          16       5.93    30    30.91   36.84         10     8.05   30       67.20        75.25
Jowar Local                    5      0.69   30       -        -           5      0.81       7     3.14    3.95       -       -       -       -            -
Paddy Transplanted            -        -     -        -        -         -          -      -        -       _         10      9.20   -        -             9.20
Paddy Drilled                 28      9.66    4      3.84   13.50        28      10.95      4      4.35   15.30        25    14.38    7       11.20        25.58
maize                          6      1.38    1      0.64    2.02          6       1.66      1     0.77    2.43        -       -        2       5.12        5.12
Croundnuts                    24      3.86   27    12.10   15.96          24      4.47    27    14.00   18.47          15      5.18   15       14.40       19.58
Chillies/Tobacco               3      0.35    8       2.56    2.91         3       0.40      8      2.97    3.37        2      0.51     7       4.93        5.44
Turmeric/Ginger               -        -      -        -        -         -         -       -        -      -           2      1.38    3        5.76        7.14
Vegetables                                                                                                                    -         3     38.40        38.40
Pulses (RF)                   -        -     -        -        -         _          -       -       -       -           5     0.69      7       2.69        3.38
Fodder and other
Non-Food Crops               1      4.60   2    25.60   30.20           1       5.29      2    29.44   34.73        -       -       -       -            -
Pigeon Pea                     2       0.28   2      0.77    1.05          2      0.32       2     0.90    1.22       -       -       -       -            -
Baire                         -         -      1     0.22    0.22        -          -        1     0.26    0.26       -       -       -       -
Cropping Intensity            85              82                          85                82
RABI
Wheat                          2       0.60   3       2.50    3.10         2       0.69      3      2.88    3.5        20    11.50   20        32.00       43.50
Jowar Local                   -        -      4      1.02    1.02        -          -       4      1.28    1.28       -       -         3       3.07        3.07
Jowar Hybrid                  -        -     -        -        -         -          -      -        -       -         -       -         2       3.84        3.84
Jowar Ratoon                  -        -     -        -        -         -          -       -       -       -           2      1.15    3        4.80        5.95
Maize                         -        -      -        -        -         -         -       -        -      -           5      3.74    2        4.16        7.90
Gram/Peas                      2       0.18   4       1.02    1.20         2       0.23      4      1.28    1.51        5      1.38    5        3,84        5.22
Vegetables                    -        -      -       -        -          -         -       -        -      -           5    23.00    5       64.00        87.00
Cropping Intensity             4                                                                                       37              40
PERENNIALS
Sugarcene                     13    224.25   9   460.80  685.05           13    265.36       9   511.20  776.56        25   560.63   23  1,435.20   1,995.83
Lucerne                       -        -     -        -        -         -          -      -        -       -           2    36.80    2    102.40         139.20           a
t.1
Total Cropping                                                                                                                                                           o
Intensity               102             102                         102               102                        133             139                                 |0



77
TABLE T-14
Page 6 of 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Design Cropping Patterns Proposed for the -Scheme Areas on the Basis of
Irrigation Supply and Crop Water Requirements in the Average Year
Bhima        Bhima    Krishna  Krishng  Krishna                 Upper    Upper    Warna   Warna
Crop %                Light Soil  Heavy Soil    Dom    Kanher   Arphal   Kukadi  Penganga  Wardha  W. Area  E. Area
--------------------------------------Net CCA Hectares-------------------------------------
Kharif Crops                 88,200        37,800    32,000   14,000   28,000   132,000 126,000   75,000  23,000   64,000
Jowar Hybrid                             25            25         30         30        35         21        30        30       10        30
Jowar Local - unirrigated                  0            0           0         0         0           0        5         3        0          0
Bajra Hybrid                             10             0           0         0         0         10         0         0        0         0
Paddy Transplanted                        0             0           5         5         0          0         0         0       10          0
Paddy-drilled                              2            0          15        15         5           2        8         8       25          7
Maize                                      5            5           0         0         0           0        0         0        0          2
Groundnuts                               15             5          17        17        20         15         8        10       15         15
Cotton L.S.                                5           20           0         0         8           0       20        20        0          0
Cotton M.S. - unirrigated                  0            0           0         0         0           0       10        10        0          0
Chillies                                   2            0           0         0         3           2        4         5        2          5
Turmeric/Ginger                            0            0           5         5         2           0        3         0        2          3
Vegetables                                 2            0           3         3         5           3        3         4        0          3
Pulses - unirrigated                      10            0           5         5         2         10 1/    2           2        5          7
Tobacco                                    0            0           0         0         0           0        0         0        0         2
Sub-total Kharif                       76            65         80        80         80         63       93         92       69        74
Irrigation Intensity                                            75        75         78         63       76         77       64        67
Rabi Crops
Wheat                                     15           15          25        25        18          20       30        19       20         20
Jowar Local                               20           25          10        10        10          20        0         0        0          3
Jowar Hybrid                               5            5           7         5         7          15        6         4        0          2
Jowar Rattoon                              2            2           2         2         2           2        0         0        2          3
Maize                                      0            0           0         0         3           0        0         0         5         2
Gram/Peas                                  5            5          10        10        10           8        6         4        5          5
Vegetables/Onions                          2            2           4         4         4           3        3         2         5         5
Potatoes                                   0            0           3         3         2           3        0         1        0         0
Sub-total Rabi                         49            54         61         59        56         71       45         30       37        40
Irrigation Intensity                                            61         59        56         71       45         30       37        40
Hot Weather
Groundnut                                  0            0           5         5         5           0        0         0        0          0
Fodder                                     0            0           2         2         2          0         0         0        0         0
Sub-total Hot Weather                   0             0           7         7         7          0         0         0        0         0
Perennials
Sugar Cane (wells                          3            0           2         2         5           2        3         2        5          3
(canals                       9             0         10        10        10           0        0         0        20        20
Lucerne                                    0            0           2      _2           n           0        0         0        2       _ 
Sub-total Perennials                   12             0         14         14        15          2         3         2       27        25
Total Cropping Intensity                137           119         162       150       158         136      141       124      133        139
Total Irrigation Intensity              127           109         157       140       156         136      124       109      128        132
1/ Irrigated.



78
TABLE T-15
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II (MAJOR COMPOSITE) PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets
----------- Yield ----------
Main Product      By-Product      Gross                                     Total      Net
Crop                            Time    TVPe    t/ba    Rs/t    t/ha    Rs/t    Value    Labor    Animal    Others    Inputs    Value
-------------------------Rs--------------------------
KHARIF
Sorghum - Local                p       RF       0.6    1,290    1.2       150      954       240       168         213        621       333
W       RF       0.7    1,390    1.4       150    1,183        252      168         258        678       505
W       RF       0.7    1,390    1.4       150    1,183        252      168         259        679       504
Sorghum - HYV                  P       RF       1.4    1,290    2.5       120    2,106       320       192         617.    1,129       977
W       RF       1.61   1,390    3.2       120    2,622        332      204         824      1,360    1,262
w       IR       3.5    1,390    5.0       120    5,465        440      240       1,415      2,095    3,370
Paddy - drilled                p       RF       1.5    1,070    2.0       100    1,805       360       192         678      1,230       575
W       RF       1.7    1,540    2.2       100    2,838        376      204         897      1,477    1,361
W       IR       2.5    1,540    2.5       100    4,100       432       240       1,144      1,816    2,284
Paddy - Transplant             W       IR       4.0    1,380    5.0       100    6,020       560       360       1,978      2,898    3,122
Pearl Millet                   P       RF       0.35   1,120    1.2       120      536       160       120         101        381       155
W       RF       0.4    1,380    1.4       120       720       168      132         102        402       318
W       IR       2.0    1,380    2.4       120    3,048       340       180         872      1,392    1,656
Maize                          p       RF       1.0    1,120    1.2       100    1,240        28f      180         322        790       450
Wz      RF       1.2    1,380    1.4       100    1,796       304       180         430        914       882
W       IR       4.0    1,380    5.0       100    6,020       456       240       1,799      2,495    3,525
Groundnuts                     P       RF       0.7    2,270    1.0       250    1,839       380       180         545      1,105       734
W       RF       0.81   2,750    1.2      250    2,528        420       192         686     1,298    1,230
W       IR       1.5    2,750    2.5       250    4,750       600       264       1,353      2,217    2,533
Cotton - Medium Staple         P       RI       0.3    4,000      -        -     1,200       380       180         243        803       397
- Medium Staple        W        RF      0.35   4,300       -       -      1,505       420      216         498      1,134       371
- Long Staple          W        IR      1.8    4,300       -       -      7,740       840      360       1,693      2,893    4,847
Chillies/Tobacco               p       RF       0.5    6,000      -        -     3,000       700       192       1,031      1,923    1,077
'.      RF       0.58   7,700      -        -     4,466        720      204       1,306      2,230    2,236
W       IR-      1.1    7,700      -        _     8,470       800       240.      1,673      2,713    5 757
Turmeric                      W        IR       3.0    4,400      -        -    13,200    1.265        300       5,764      7,320    5,860
Onions/Veg (Kharif&Rabi)      W        IR      20.0       660     -        -    13,200    1,328        264       2,984      4,576    8,624
Pulses                         P       RI       0.3    1,870    0.4       100       601      160       120          65        345       256
W       RF       0.4    1,760    0.5       100       754      176       120          98        394       360
W       RF       0.6    1,760    0.7       100    1,126       208        24         304        536       590
Pigeon Pea (Tur)               p       RF       0.6    1,790    1.2        50    1,134       192       120          47        359       775
W       RF       0.7    1,760    1.4        50    1,302       208       120          82        410       892
Fodder                         p       RF      20.0       110     -        -     2,200       360       180         353        893    1,307
W       RF      23.0    1 110      -        -     2,530       384       180         441      1,005    1,525
Note:
P - Present situation; W = Future without Project; W = Future with Project; RF - Rainfed; and TR = Irrigated.



79
TABLE T-15
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II (MAJOR C04POSITE) PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets
------------Yield-------------
Main Product        By-Product    Gross                                     Total       Net
Crop                     Time    Type    t/ha    Rs/t        t/ha    Rs/t    Value    Labor    Animal    Others    Inputs    Value
-R---------_______----Rs---------
RABI
Wheat                    P       IR       1.3    1,500      2.5       80    2,150       360      240          692   1,292          858
W       IR       1.5    1,650      3.0       80    2,715       380      240          888   1,508        1,207
W       IR       2.5    1,650      4.0       80    4,445       440      269        1,410   2,119        2,326
Wheat
Wheat                   p        RF       0.5    1,500      1.0       80      830       220      192          326      738          92
W       RF       0.58   1,650      1.2       80    1,053       240      192          426      858         195
Sorghum - Local         p        RF       0.4    1,410      1.2      150      744      180       120           42      342         402
W       RF       0.5    1,510      1.5      150       980      192      144          120      456         524
W       IR       1.6    1,510      5.0      150    3,166       292      216          708   1,216        1,950
Sorghum - HYV           W        IR       3.0    1,390      4.0      120    4,650      380      240        1,100   1,720        2,930
28g
Sorghum - Ratoon        W        IR       2.5    1,390      3.5      120    3,894      280        60          738   1,078       2,816
Maize                   W        IR       3.25   1,380      4.0      100    4,885      392       240        1,142   1,774        3,111
Gram/Peas               P        RF       0.4    1,480      0.6      100      652      180       144           80      4404        248
W       RF       0.5    2,090      0.75    100    1,120        196      168          246      610         510
W       IR       1.2    2,090      1.8      100    2,688       288      240          555   1,083        1,605
Potatoes                P        IR      15.0      930       -        -    13,950      600       264        5,467   6,331       7,619
W        2IR    17.5       940       -       -    16,450       660      276        5,889   6,825        9,625
W       IR      20.0       940      -        -    18,'800      720      288        6,359   7,367       11,433
Safflower/Linseed       P        RF       0.4    2,180       -        -       872      200       120           69      389        483
W       RF       0.45   2,530        -       -      1,139      212      120          102      434         705
W       RF       0.6    2,530        -       -      1,518      232      120          107      459       1,059
W       IR       1.5    2,530        -       -      3,795      320      216          612   1,148        2,647
HOT WEATHER
Groundnuts              U        IR       2.0    2,750      2.5      250    6,125      700       264        1,308   2,272        3,853
Fodder                  W        IR      35.0      130       -        -     4,550      472       180          757   1,409       3,141
-PERENNIALS
Sugarcane Plant         P        IR      85.0      120       -        -    10,200   1,020        240       4,113   5,373        4,827
W       IR      95.0       160      -        -    15,200   1,080        300        4,729   6,109        9,091
W       IR    105.0        160       -       -    16,800   1,160        360        4,559   6,079       10,721
Sugarcane Ratoon        P        IR     65.0       120       -        -     7,800      520        84        1,752   2,356       5,444
W       IR      70.0       160       -       -    11,200       580       96        2,212   2,888        8,312
W       IR      75.0       160       -       -    12,000       640      108        2,100   2,848        9,152
Lucerne (3 Year)        W        IR      80.0      220       -        -    17,600      944       480        1,492   2,916      14,684
Note:
P = Present situation; W = Future without Project; W = Future with Project; RF = Rainfed, 1R - Irrigated.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Crop Budgets
Yield                       Gross                                             Total
Crop                                                   Main Product           Bi-Product          Value       Labor      Animal       Others       Inputs       Net Va.te
Kharif                          Time      Type       t.h       Rs./t.       t./ha.   Rs./t.   _ -____-________-         -     -    -Rs/ha-------------------------------
Sorghum - Local                  p        R.F.        0.60      1320          1.2      120          913        156          134          180         470           443
W        R.F.        0;70      1420          1.4      120         1162        164          134          222         520           642
W        R.F.        0.70      1420          1.4      120         1162        164          134          223         521           641
Sorghum - NYV                    p        R.F.        1.40      1320          2.5       96         2088        208          154          559         921          1167
W        R.F.        1.61      1420          3.2       96         2593        216          163          690        1069          1524
W        IRR         3.50      1420          5.0       96         5450        286          192         1332        1810          3640
Paddy - Drilled                  P        R.F.        1.50      1370         2.0        80         2215        234          154          621        1009          1206
W        R.F.        1.70      1610          2.2       80         2913        244          163          815        1223          1690
1W       IRR         2.50      1610          2.5       80         4225        281          192         1044        1517          2708
Paddy - Transplanted            W         IRR         4.00      1440          5.0       80         6160        364          288         1813        2465          3695
Pearl Millet                     P        R.F.        0.35      1150          1.2       96          518        104           96           82         282           236
W        R.F.        0.40      1410          1.4       96          698         109         106           83         298           400
W        IRR         2.00      1410          2.4       96         3050        221          144          718        1083          1967
Maize                            p        R.F.        1.00      1150          1.2       80         1246        187          144          280         611           635
W        R.F.        1.20      1410          1.4       80         1804        198          144          381         723          1081
W        IRR         4.00      1410          5.0       80         6040        296          192         1651        2139          3901
Groundnut                        P        R.F.         .70      2600          1.0      200         2020        247          144          513         904          1116      0
w        R.F.         .81      2670          1.2      200         2403        273          154          645        1072          1331
W        IRR         1.50      2670          2.5      200         4505        390          211         1160        1761          2744
Cotton                           P        R.F.        0.30     4070            -        -          1221        247          144          213         604           617
1W       R.F.        0.35      4370           -        -          1530         273         253          447         893           637
W        IRR         1.80      5440           -        -          9792         546         288         1920        2754          7038
Chillies/Tobacco                _         R.F.        0.50      5220           -        -          2610        455          154          902        1511          1099
W4       R.F.        0.58      7700           -        -          4466        468          163         1157        1788          2678
W        IRR         1.10      7700           -        -          8470         520        ,192         1482        2194          6276
Turmeric                        W         IRR         3.00      4400           -        -         13200        816          240         5511        6567          6633
Onions/Vegetables (Kharif        W        IRR        20.00       600           -        -         12000        863.         211         2401        3475          8525
and Rabi)
Pulses                           p        R.P.        0.30      1910          0,4       80          605         104          96           62         262            343
W4       R.F.        0.40      1800          0.5       80          740        114           96           64         274           466
W        R.F.        0.60      1800          0.7       80         1136         135          20          220         374            762
Pigeon Pea (Tur)                 P        R.F.        0.60      1830          1.2       40         1146        125           96           44         265            881  '-
W4       R.F.        0.70      1800          1.4       40         1316         135          96           48          279          1037  0 .
Fodder                           p        R.F.       20.00       100           _        _          2000         234         144          313         691           1309
W        R.P.       23.00       100           _        _          2300         250         144          396          790          1510
Note:  P = Present
W4 = Future without project
W = Future with project
R.F. = Rainfed
IRR - Irrigated



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Economic Crop Budgets
Yield                       Gross                                             Total
Crop                                                 _ain Product            Bi-Product         Value       Labor      Animal       Others        Inputs       Net Value
Rabi                           Time      Type       t./ha.   Rs.tt.       t./ha.   Rs./t.       --R--------------------------Rs/ha--------------------------------
Wheat                           p         IRR        1.30      1270         2.5        64        1811        234          192          630          1056         755
W        IRR         1.50     1530          3.0       64         2487        247         192          815          1254         1233
W        I           2.50     1530          4.0       64         4081        286         211         1347          1848         2233
Wheat                           p         R.F.       0.50      1270         1.0        64         699        143          154          301           598         101
W4       R.F.        0.58     1530          1.2       64          964        156         154          406           716          248
Sorghum - Local                 P        R.F.         .40      1440         1.2       120         720        117           96           38          251          469
VI       R.F.         .50     1540          1.5      120          950        125         115          111           351          599
W        IRR         1.60     1540          5.0      120         3064        190         173          670          1033         2031
Sorghum - HYV                   W        IRR         3.00      1420         4.0        96        4644        247          192        1022          1461         3183
182
Sorghum - Rattoon               W        IRR         2.50      1420         3.5        96        3886        182           48         690           920         2966
Maize                           W         IRR        3.25      1410         4.0        80        4903        255          192         1030          1477        3426
Gram/Peas                       P        R.F.         .40      1510          .6        80         652        117          115           75           307         345
W        R.F.         .50     2140           .75      80         1151        127         134          231           493          658
W        IRR         1.20     2140          1.8       80         2712        187         192          514           893         1819
Potatoes                        P         IRR       15.00       850          -         -        12750        390          211         5106          5707        7043
1W       IRR        17.50      860           _        _         15050        429         221         5748          6398         8652      0
W        IRR        20.00      860           -        -         17200        468         230         5923          6621        10519
Safflower/Linseed               P        R.F.         .40      2330          -         -          932        130           96           64           290         642
W        R.F.         .45     2700           -        -          1242        138          96           96           330          912
W        R.F.         .60     2700           -        -          1620        151          96          100           347         1273
W        IRR         1.50     2700           -        -          4050        208         173          574           955         3095
Hot Weather
Groundnut                                IRR         2.00      2670         2.5       200        5840        455          211         1210          1876         3964
Fodder                          W         IRR       35.00       120          -         -         4200        307          144          687          1138         3062
Perennials
Sugarcane - Plant               P        IRR        85.00       130          -         -        11050        663          192         3725          4580        6470
W        IRR        95.00      160           -        -         15200        702         240         4298          5240         9960
W        IRR       105.00      160           -        -         16800        754         288         4403          5445        11355   . 
Sugarcane - Ratton              p        IRR        65.00       130          -         -         8450        338           67         1556          1961         6489  a r
W        IRR        70.00      160           -        -         11200        377          77         1985          2439         8761     H
W        IRR        75.00      160           -        -         12000        416          86         1950          2452         9548  0 
Lucerne - (3 Year)              W         IRR       80.00       200          -         -        16000        614          384         1375          2373        13627
Note:  P   Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
R.F. = Rainfed
IRR = Irrigated



82                             TABLE T-17
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Typical Farm Budgets
Farm    Gross    Hired               Other    Total        Net
Scheme                   Size    Value    Labor   Animals   Inputs   Inputs        Value
(ha)    -   -  -  -  -   -  .   -  -  -  -   Rs  -   -  -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -
Bhima   : Light    P      5       5,635      372       658      1,115    2,145      3,490
Soils    W             7,503       424      744      1,523    2,691      4,812
w            33,384    1,916    1,508       8,264   11,688    21,696
: Heavy    P     5       4,211       340      646        407    1,393      2,818
Soils    W             5,476       388      729        777    1,894      3,582
w            28,662    1,604    1,422       7,130   10,156    18,506
Krishna : Dom       P     3       4,670       1430     516      1,224    1,920      2,750
w             6,639      232       561      1,748    2,541      4,098
W            30,866    1,268    1,221       8,347   10,836    20,030
Kanher   P      3      4,670       180       516     1,224    1,920      2,750
w             6,639      232       561      1,748    2,541      4,098
w            30,587    1,256    1,207       8,281   10,744    19,843
: Arphal   P      3      5,428       188      497      1,462    2,147      3,281
W             8,087      248       549      2,130    2,927      5,160
W            31,400    1,300    1,204       8,116   10,620    20,780
Kukadi  :           P     5       5,330       316      651        985    1,952      3,378
w             7,014      364       734      1,371    2,469      4,545
w            33,548    1,636    1,519       8,852   12,007    21,541
Upper Penganga:    P      5       7,991       664      910      2,062    3,636      4,355
W            11,190      788    1,007       3,158    4,953      6,237
W            39,493    2,396    1,839    10,462   14,697    24,796
Upper Wardha:       P     5       8,125       780      900      2,145    3,825      4,300
W            10,754      924    1,022       3,297    5,243      5,511
W            35,319    2,102    1,620       8,979   12,701    22,618
Warna   : Western  P      3       8,192       252      565      2,747    3,574      4,618
W            12,293      31.6      618      3,565    4,499      7,794
W            28,907      972    1,043       7,620    9,635    19,272
: Eastern  P      3      6,937       232      541      2,160    2,933      4,004
W            10,710      31.2      602      3,054    3,968      6,742
W            30,754    1,092    1,031       7,889   10,012    20,742
P = Present
W - Future without project
W   Future with project



83
TABLE T-18
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cost Recovery
Upper        Upper
Bhima     Krishna       Kukadi      Penganga      Wardha       Warna      Average
Total Cost/Revenu                             ----------
Capital costs/ha of net CCA 1/ (Rs/ha)
Irrigation infrastructure 2/               18,550      17,470        15,210      17,480        16,340      17,360      17,060
Part I works (average)                         700         700          700         700           700         700          700
Part II works (average)                      1.150                    1,150 1.150 11,150                    1,150       1,150
Total                                      20,400       19,320       17,060      19,330        18,190      19,210      18,910
Annual financial requirement/ha of net
CCA (Rs/ha/year)
Irrigation infrastructure 3/                1,870        1,760        1,530       1,760         1,650       1,750       1,720
Part .1 & II works 4/                          300         300          300         300           300         300         300
O&M                                            100         100          100         100           100         100         100
Total Annual Financial Requirement                2,270       2,160        1,930       2,160          2,050       2,150       2,120
Cost Recovery under Existing Charges
(Rs/ha/year)
Direct:  Water charges 51                      135         153           79          72            72         217         117
Cess on water rate 5/                 27          31           16          14            14          43           23
Employment (EGS) Cess 5/              25          25           25          25            25           25          25
Education Cess 5/                     25          33            6          14             12         48           22
Sub-total (Rs/gross irrigated ha)              212         242          126         125           123         333         187
Sub-total (Rs/ha of net CCA)                   258         370          171         155           134         436         240
Land revenue (incremental)                       5          13            8          16            10          13           10
Part I works (average) 6/                      114         114          114         114           114         114         114
Part II works (average) 6/                     187         187          187         187           187         187         187
Sub-total (Rs/ha of net CCA)                 564         684          480         472           445         750         551
Indirect:  Purchase tax on sugarcane            40          63            0           0             0         126           33
Sales tax on cotton & oilseeds   55             38           23          75            57           1           43
Sub-total (Rs/ha of net CCA)                    95         101           23          75            57         127          76
Total Cost Recovery                                 659         785          503         547            502         877         627
Proiect Rent                                      1,660       2,720        1,690       2,010          1,980       2,650       2,030
Cost Recovery as % of Project Rent                   40          29       -   30           27            25          33          31
Cost Recovery as % of the cost of each Scheme    29              36           26          25             24          41          30
1/ All expressed in June 1979 prices.
2/ Including sunk costs.
3/ Annuity for recovery over 50 years at 10% interest rate.
4/ Annuity for recovery over 10 years at 10% interest rate.
5/ Per gross irrigated ha.
6/ For 10 years only.



INDIA
MARARASHTRA IRRIGA1ION II PRaJECT
SetI"ete of Prolect Root
UPPER                UPPER
BHIMA                                             KRISHNA                             KIKADI            PENGANGA               WARDH                       WVARA
Light Soil.        Sewy Soils             Dow                K nher               Arph.1                                                                      Westrn                E-ter-
---h5 ha fr----------      ------------------------3ha f---- -----------                                  --      fr f -----------------------   -------------3 h  f-  --     -
1        1         1                   4        1 W  W                                  1 U  U  Wi W  W  W  W                                               UW
1. Enpectad Gro-  V.lI.  of Production       7,500   33,380     5,470   28,660      6,640   30,860      6,640   20,590      8,090    31.400   7,010    33,550   11,190   39,490        10,750   35,320   12,290   28.910    10,710   30,750
2. Certei.ty Eqoivalsut of (1) I/            4,120   23,370     3,250   20.060      3,650   21,600      3,650   21,410      4,450    21,980   3,860    23,480    6,150   27,640         5,910   24,720    6,760   20,240      5,890   21,530
3. Productio  Cost                           2,690   11,690     1,890   10,150      2.540   10,840      2.540   10,750      2.930    10.620   2.470    12,010    4.950   14,700         5,240   12,700    4,500    9,340      3,970   10,010
4. F-ily Lebor                                 720    1,350       650    1,180        780    1,440         930    1,430       790     1,490      760     1,440    1,020    1,570          950    1,310    1,050    1,490         990    1.510
5.  Hot Retur.  (2)-(3)-(4)                    710   10,330       470    8,730        330    9,320        180    9,230        730     9,870     630    10,030       180   11,370          280   10,710    1,210    9,410         930   10,010
6. HantsOg   t F     2/                         70    1,030        30      870         30      930         20       920        70       990       60     1,000       20    1.140            0    1,070       120      940         90    1,000
7. Ioplillt Land Root                          640    9,300       420    7,860        300    8,390         160    8,310       660     8,880      570     9,030      160   10,230          280    9,640    1,090    8,470         840    9,010
0. Project RMnt                                       8,660              7,440               8,090                8,150         ,     8,220              8,460            10,070                 9,920              7,380               8,170
9. Prosjct Ront per he                                1.730               1,490              2,700                2,720               2,740              1,690             2.010                 1,980              2,460               2,720
10. Weighted Averg _                          ---------------1,660--------------     ----------------------2,720------------------------                                                                         ---       2,650----_ -_
W - Rotors without project
W   F Fotre with project
1/ So_ atudie. of frer.' bhalvio, show that a sple approach cen bs  dopted to teke into *ccount the forer.' risk  -verio  by  etiattns * csrtnty  qiivlent v-lo.  (CE) of the epctsd  .I.o. (EV). The forula used i.:
Ce - EO - 005
where   - the at.d..d devi.tion
n .   factor thlt sepre.e.s ths f-rer.' risk  -vereton
The etudlee Oodicdte that the ffrcer   choice of oroppl9 pattern. uld production techlque.  cn bhe predicted for velue. of         L. in the intL-l I to t2 nd that "n" ddcr...  n when ths frn  eis     - .ncre..e..  For thi. anelyae,
it is *u8e,d that n - 1.4 for 3 he fer  seed, sod c . 1.5 for 5 ha fern si...  The vatlati.n  In hltoricl gross return, under reltefd conditions ere roughly within 30% of th  -verge velue for these  .chen..re.             s   It
h.e heen * u-ed that under '"ith prnJant" conditions, the gros  return wuld vary within 20% of the  verEg  value.
2/ Th. rev-rd for a.ogrenoL nd aotrepcsn...a. ip ia p.iaerily a prentum for the  pecil1 shills thet fern -E.-.L r.qoirea.  Con.equ.ntly, It ha. b.an as..  -d that the 'ane-geet fee" is equsi to 10% of the net ret-rc.
3/ WnIghted by arce of o-ah .che.-



85                                  TABLE T-20
INDIA                                 Page 1 of 2
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II
Summary of Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
Financial
Economic              Prices
Prices               (Rs/t)
Crops                                  1979   IT90            19Y7       1990
Sorghum-Kharif:  Local                 1320      1420         1290       1390
HYV                 1320      1420         1290       1390
Paddy-transplanted                     1220      1440          950       1380
-drilled                         1370      1610         1070       1540
Pearl millet-Kharif                    1150      1410         1120       1380
Maize-Kharif and rabi                  1150      1410         1120       1380
Groundnut-Kharif and rabi              2600      2670         2270       2750
Cotton-local                           4070      4370         4000       4300
-hybrid                         5060      5440         5000       5400
Chillies                               5220      7700         6000       7700
Turmeric                               4000      4400         4000       4400
Onions/Veg.-Kharif and rabi             600       600          660        660
Pulses                                 1910      1800         1870       1760
Pigeon pea (tur)                       1830      1800         1790       1760
Wheat                                  1270      1530         1500       1650
Sorghum-rabi: Local                    1440      1540         1410       1510
rabi: HYV                     1320      1420         1290       1390
rabi: rattoon                 1320      1420         1290       1390
Gram/peas                             1510       2140         1480       2090
Potatoes                                850       860          930        940
Safflower/Linseed-rainfed
and irrigated                       2330       2700         2180       2530
Lucerne                                 200       200          220        220
Fodder-Kharif, rainfed                  100       100          110        110
H.W. irrigated                   120      120          130        130
Sugarcane                               130       160          120        160



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Derivation of 1990 Economic Prices for Major Crops -
(in constant 1979 prices)
Paddy        Wheat       Groundnuts          Cotton         Sugarcane
(drilled)-4                                  (American)-
Projected 1990 World Market Price (US$/ton) 2/             453           186            527             1822               315
Adjustment for quality differentials (%)                    70           100             -                90                95
Projec.ted price adjusted for quality (US$/ton)3/          317           186             -              1640               299
International shipping and handling (US$/ton) -          +  20         +  30             -             + 163               _
FOB/CIF price (US$/ton)                                    337           216            527             1803               299
(Rs/ton)                                   2866          1836           4480            15327             2542
Transport & handling cost in Domestic Market
(Rs/ton x SCF)                                         - 220        - 244          - 538             -1840            - 305
Processing cost                                          -  85            -           -  63            - 433            - 620    X
Processing ratio (%)                                        65           100             70               42                10
Farmer's transport and handling (Rs/ton x SCF)           -  58         -  58          -  50            -  43            -   4
Adjusted farm-gate prices (rounded)  (Rs/ton)             1610          1530           2670             5440               160
1/  The economic price of the other foodgrains was derived by applying a foodgrain conversion factor to their
financial price.
2/  Source:  IBRD Price Forecasts dated September 1978.  These forecasts are expressed in 1979 constant prices.
Pricing basis:  Rice:  Thai, milled 5% broken, fob Bangkok
Wheat: Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring, in store Thunder Bay
Groundnuts:  Shelled nuts, any origin, cif Europe
Cotton: Mexican lint, cif N. Europe
Sugarcane: Raw sugar, fob Caribbean ports
3/  Both India and the State of Maharashtra are likely to be net importers of foodgrains, groundnuts and long-staple
cotton, and net exporters of sugar and short-staple cotton.
4/  The economic price for transplanted paddy was derived by applying the ratio of the 1979 financial prices of
transplanted and drilled paddy to the economic price of drilled paddy.                                                       n H
5/  The economic price of short-staple (Desi) cotton was derived by applying the ratio of the 1979 financial prices              OQ
of "Desi" and "American" to the wholesale economic price of ginned "American" cotton.
0 I
h



87
TABLE T-21
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II
Costs of Inputs and Prices used in Crop Budgets
(Present and Future)
Economic   Financial
LABOR                           (Rs)        (Rs)
Farm labor (m.d.)                2.6         4.0
Bullock pair day                9.6         12.0
SEED
Economic                                          Economic
and Financial                                     and Financial
(Rs/kg)                                           (Rs/kg)
Jowar hybrid                     10.0          Wheat                                2.5
Bajra hybrid                     10.0          Gram                                 2.2
Paddy HYV                          2.5         Onion                               25.0
Maize HYV                          3.5         Potato                               1.7
Jowar local                        2.0         Groundnut                            4.5
Bajra local                        2.0         Safflower                            3.0
Maize local                        2.0         Fodder                                2.0
Pigeon pea (Tur)                   2.5         Alfalfa                             25.0
Mung                               2.5         Sugarcane                           50.0/1000
Cotton H4                        60.0          Tumeric                          1,850.0/1000
Cotton American - local           3.0          Ginger                           3,000.0/1000
Chillies                         40.0          Banana                             120.0/1000
FERTILIZER
Economic Financial
(Rs/kg)   (Rs/kg)
N            4.41       4.64        FYM
p205         4.05       4.26
K 0          1.63       1.72        Economic:  24.0 Rs/ton (12.0 per cartload)
2                                 Financial: 30.0 Rs/ton (15.0 per cartload)
Value of straw, other biproducts and fodder crops
Straws and stalks
Economic   Financial                          Economic   Financial
(Rs/q)     (Rs/q)                             (Rs/q)      (Rs/q)
Jowar hybrid                 10-          12       Wheat                     6            8
Jowar local                  12           15       Groundnut                20           25
Bajra                        10           12       Tur                       4            5
Maize                         8           10       Mung                      8           10
Paddy                         8           10       Gram                      8           10
Green Fodder
Maize or Jowar kharif         8           10       Lucerne                  12           15
Maize or Jowar H.W.          10           12



88                                   TABLE T-22
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
BHIMA SCHE3ME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis (1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M        Total                           Net
Year             Cost        Cost       _Cost         Benefits       Benefits
--------------------------Rs M---------------------------
1965/66             1.11                     1.11                       -  1.11
1966/67             1.46                     1.46                       -  1.46
1967/68             3.15                     3.15                       -  3.15
1968/69             5.77                     5.77                       -  5.77
1969/70            14.24                    14.24                       - 14.24
1970/71            25.01                    25.01                       - 25.01
1971/72            34.14                    34.14                       - 34.14
1972/73            52.85                    52.85                       - 52.85
1973/74            61.32                    61.32                       - 61.32
1974/75            63.90                    63.90                       - 63.90
1975/76           124.70                   124.70                       -124.70
1976/77           117.05                   117.05          1.76         -115.29
1977/78           110.20        .21        110.41          8.37         -102.04
1978/79           125.63        .68        126.31         19.37         -106.94
1979/80           123.19       1.24        124.43         34.34         - 90.09
1980/81           100.31       1.80        102.11         55.47         - 46.64
1981/82            15.42       2.59         18.01         81.00            62.99
1982/83            45.44       3.49         48.93        111.82            62.86
1983/84           133.31       4.46        137.77        150.56            12.79
1984/85           129.62       5.44        135.06        195.90            60.84
1985/86           142.72       6.41        149.13        239.05            89.92
1986/87           143.48       7.39        150.87        279.99           129.12
1987/88           144.28       8.36        152.64        338.11           185.47
1988/89           132.61       9.34        141.95        377.29           235.34
1989/90            24.19       9.45         33.64        404.58           370.94
1990/91            23.66       9.45         33.11        422.19           388.08
1991/92            25.09       9.45         34.54        431.44           396.90
1992/93            25.53       9.45         34.98        438.04          403.06
1993/94            25.96       9.45         35.41        439.80           404.39
1                 1                        1
2014/15            26.40       9.45         35.85        440.24           404.39



89                                    TABLE T-23
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KRISHNA SCHEME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M         Total                         Net
Year              Cost        Cost         Cost        Benefits       Benefits
-________--------------Rs M----------------------------
1968/69            1.84                     1.84                       -  1.84
1969/70            3.61                     3.61                       -  3.61
1970/71           10.36                    10.36                       - 10.36
1971/72           11.21                    11.21                       - 11.21
1972/73           23.92                    23.92                       - 23.92
1973/74           24.97                    24.97                       - 24.97
1974/75           29.88                    29.88                       - 29.88
1975/76           21.58                    21.58                       - 21.58
1976/77           55.55                    55.55                       - 55.55
1977/78           70.69                    70.69                       - 70.69
1978/79           55.93       1.15         57.08         12.97         - 44.71
1979/80           73.08       1.15         74.23         22.81         - 51.42
1980/81           76.02       2.11         78.13         42.91         - 35.22
1981/82           93.83       2.37         96.20         65.72         - 30.48
1982/83           83.93       2.81         86.74         92.78             6.04
1983/84           80.92       3.26         84.18        122.93            38.75
1984/85           68.66       3.75         72.41        156.95            84.54
1985/86          101.24       4.65        105.89        187.10            81.21
1986/87           93.53       5.55         99.08        248.57           149.49
1987/88           87.38                    92.93        294.96           202.03
1988/89            8.40                    13.95        329.36           315.41
1989/90            8.59                    14.14        355.26           341.12
1990/91            8.79                    14.34        372.27           357.93
1991/92            9.00                    14.55        381.94           369.39
1992/93            9.00                    14.55        385.80           371.25
1993/94            9.00                    14.55        386.58           372.03
2018/19            9.00       5.55         14 55        386.58           372.03



90                                TABLE T-24
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KUKADI SCHEME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M        Total                         Net
Year             Cost         Cost        Cost        Benefits       Benefits
-      __-----------------Rs M----------
1968/69            0.03                    0.03                       -  0.03
1969/70            0.07                    0.07                       -  0.07
1970/71            1.38                    1.38                       -  1.38
1971/72            7.38                    7.38                       -  7.38
1972/73            8.37                    8.37                       -  8.37
1973/74           12.66                   12.66                       - 12.66
1974/75           15.00                   15.00                       - 15.00
1975/76           50.64                   50.64                       - 50.64
1976/77           65.86                   65.86                       - 65.86
1977/78           90.70                   90.70                       - 90.70
1978/79           70.22      0.82         71.04          6.21         - 64.83
1979/80           86.28      0.97         137.25        12.87         - 74.38
1980/81           97.28      1.15         98.43         19.08         - 79.35
1981/82          100.17      1.49        101.66         30.62         - 71.04
1982/83          136.06      2.13        1:38.19        44.82         - 93.37
1983/84          137.53       3.03       140.56         64.79         - 75.77
1984/85          160.05      3.91        163.96         91.42         - 72.54
1985/86          171.04       5.41       176.45        132.25         - 44.20
1986/87          171.36      6.91        1,78.27       185.06             6.79
1987/88          155.55      8.41        163.96        246.74           82.78
1988/89          142.67      9.90        152.51        315.09          162.58
1989/90            5.75                   15.65        364.35          348.70
1990/91            6.37                   1,6.27       399.41          383.14
1991/92            7.21                   1,7.11       422.48          405.37
1992/93            7.31                   17.21        435.80          418.59
1993/94            7.41                   1,7.31       442.01          424.70
1994/95            7.51                   17.41        443.78          426.37
'995/96            7.51                   17.41        443.78          426.37
I               75                     17.41
2019/20            7.51      9.90         17.41        443.78          426.37



91
TABLE T-25
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UPPER WARDHA SCHEME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M        Total                         Net
Year             Cost         Cost        Cost        Benefits-      Benefits
--------------------------Rs M----------------------------
1976/77            1.64                    1.64                      -  1.64
1977/78            8.72                    8.72                      -  8.72
1978/79           26.34                   26.34                      - 26.34
1979/80           33.84                   33.84                      - 33.84
1980/81           71.70                   71.70                      - 71.70
1981/82           90.63                   90.63                      - 90.63
1982/83           94.06      0.11         94.17          1.61        - 92.56
1983/84           96.36      0.30         96.66          3.58        - 93.02
1984/85          148.44      1.13        149.57         17.59        -131.98
1985/86           86.80      2.48         89.28         49.81        - 39.47
1986/87           99.14      3.83        102.97         96.70        -  6.27
1987/88         134.16       5.18        139.34        154.98        - 15.64
1988/89           97.49      5.63        103.12        213.88         110.76
1989/90           10.01                   15.64        257.53         241.89
1990/91           10.15                   15.78        288.46         272.68
1991/92           10.32                   15.95        298.34         282.39
1992/93           10.48                   16.11        319.71         303.60
1993/94           10.61                   16.24        324.28         308.04
1994/95           10.77                   16.40        325.58         309.18
1995/96           10.77                   16.40        325.58         309.18
2026/27           1 077      5.63         16.40        325.58         309.18
1/  Including domestic and industrial water use.



92                                  TABLE T-26
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UPPER PENGANGA SCHEME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M        Total                          Net
Year             Cost         Cost        Cost        Benefits       Benefits
-------------------------Rs M---------------------------
1971/72            4.92                    4.92                       -  4.92
1972/73            2.76                    2.76                       -  2.76
1973/74            3.83                     3.83                      -  3.83
1974/75            3.50                     3.50                      -  3.50
1975/76            5.04                    5.04                       -  5.04
1976/77           37.71                   37.71                       - 37.71
1977/78           59.21                   59.21                       - 59.21
1978/79           98.68                   98.68                       - 98.68
1979/80           70.73                    70.73                      - 70.73
1980/81           94.66                   94.66                       - 94.66
1981/82           97.48                   97.48           1.02        - 96.46
1982/83          105.19       0.36       105.55           5.60        - 99.95
1983/84           54.93       0.77        55.70         14.26         - 41.44
1984/85           73.32       1.73         75.05        32.59         - 42.46
1985/86          216.77       2.85       222.32         64.66         -157.66
1986/87          175.09       4.35       1L79.44       112.02         - 67.42
1987/88          182.45       5.85       188.30        172.61         - 15.69
1988/89          175.73       7.35       183.08        242.87            59.79
1989/90          141.27       8.85       150.12        318.74           168.62
1990/91          129.18       9.45       138.63        388.49           249.86
1991/92           23.82                    33.27       437.88           404.61
1992/93           24.30                    33.75       471.49          437.74
1993/94           24.75                    34.20       491.86          457.66
1994/95           25.21                    34.66       503.57           468.91
1995/96           25.66                    35.11       508.15           473.04
1996/97           26.11                    35.56        509.17          473.61
1997/98           26.11                    35.56        509.17          473.61
2021/22           26.11       9.45         35.56        509.17          473.61



TABLE T-27
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
WARNA SCHEME
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(1979 Economic Prices)
Capital       O&M        Total                        Net
Year             Cost        Cost        Cost        Benefits       Benefits
--------------------------Rs M-----____________
1971/72           4.50                    4.50                      -  4.50
1972/73           1.13                    1.13                      -  1.13
1973/74           1.19                    1.19                      -  1.19
1974/75           1.09                    1.09                      -  1.09
1975/76           4.78                    4.78                      -  4.78
1976/77          33.81                   33.81                      - 33.81
1977/78          53.43                   53.43                      - 53.43
1978/79          62.19                   62.19                      - 62.19
1979/80          48.30                   48.30                      - 48.30
1980/81          94.25                   94.25                      - 94.25
1981/82          77.48                   77.48                      - 77.48
1982/83          80.26                   80.26                      - 80.26
1983/84          98.54                   98.54                      - 98.54
1984/85         119.16       1.35       120.51         17.46        -103.05
1985/86         150,85       2.48       153.33         47.08        -106.25
1986/87         168.48       3.60       172.08         89.60        - 82.48
1987/88         155.56       4.73       160.29        140.86        - 19.43
1988/89         140.63       5.85       146.48        198.95           52.47
1989/90         111.66       6.53       118.19        257.79         139.60
1990/91          62.64                   69.17        305.25         236.08
1991/92          15.68                   22.21        337.90         315.69
1992/93          16.02                   22.55        359.17          336.62
1993/94          16.37                   22.90        371.32          348.42
1994/95          16.71                   23.24        377.39         354.15
1995/96          17.06                   23.59        379.29          355.70
1996/97          17.06                   23.59        376.67         356.08
1               17         '                       3 6 i51
2021/22          17.06       6.53        23.59        376.67          356.08



94
TABLE T-28
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGAT[ON II PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Land Development & W4ater Management Training Program
Cost
(US$ Million)
Buildings                                              1.30
Equipment                                              0.38
Training Costs (Personnel)                             0.70
Trainees' Allowances                                   0.60
Overseas Training Visits                               0.20
Maintenance and Operation of
Training Institute
0.63
Land Acquisition
TOTAL                                             3.81  1/
1/ Includes engineering, administration and physical contingencies.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for the Six Schemes
GOM Fiscal Year        1979/80            1980/81            1981/82            1982/83             1983/84            1984/85              Total
Six Irrigation Scnt.'ies
1. Dams                               %               _                  21                 23                 19                                     _                100%
2. Canals   Excav.                   (km)             _                 250                220                210                 210                                 1,064 km
Lining                  (km)            29                  191               149                 169                104                 183
3. Distribution Network            ('000 ha)         16                  23                 18                 33                  39                  22          141,000 ha
45                  183               196                 197                230                  47
4. Roads                             (km)                                                                                                                              898 km
5. O&M Works                          %                 _30                                 34                  2                   9                  2               100%                                       .0
6. Agric. Ext. and LDA Works           %             720                                    30                 28                  14                                  100%                   en
1 0               10o                  30                 30                  20
7. Drainage                           %                                                                                                                                100%
8. Training in Water Management
9. Agric. Training and Research                                                                                 -
10. Quality Control
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
12. Pilot Water Management
13. Dam Review Panel                               _            O0 _  _  _  _  I * _  _  _  _  * h _  _  _  _  e I m                                             
Girna and Mula Modernization
4                  33                38                 15                   6                  4
14. Improvement Standards of O&M        %                                                                                           -                                   100%
20           ~~~~21              22                 22                  22                 15
15. Corrective Measure                  %                                                     _                  _                                      _                100%
16. NewWorks for Modernization          %                                                                                                                                100%
World Bank - 20505



I



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT (ID)
96                               Chart C-2
ucysn stF jrri.joniOfl
Sobjects                       Sabjecte~I                                                     Seubecry                                                 S.ber                            Sujet                            SubjeCts      yujet aaj
1. Moor&Meiu              .    or,Reoucs                    .   riqnin1    nos.Scin                                                                                                 I Colrrccos fC cuscgtiic                                               CfltocrO   f                     ccjroro
neportment                                                                                        j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SlCAD)
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.                                                                                                                  MO E. f-1                            Ch
rr ouio                                                        tErcnr  P Rnn  qrend             Mouenn                                                                                Co Eosjh ftccntrs  frf |   ngioo   Pojccn  Mojor                     GOr| CctiOfl       |n |olmn __sn *_rron,
|.  &  dro-alectir IDrog                                                                      2. JtrtiYgaits                                                                             Moiy    |   pobt  oocPue  of      Projctsl,Pl                      Auraicniane o(eMajor Atranje                      a              tmNc,aOsF     o     |
.    etaSublerts                                              Subjaocts Proj           ects   SeociOpmecn                                                                          & MrcorSPrlects SjKiha&MsrPorc                                                                          ubjets                        MnorProects
I                                                            I                                 I                                                                                     I                                 I I
In            S'~~       ~~~.                                                                        P.                                                            A  v .-_
.MOn- &Wasion                                        1.  Wcatr  oect                   1.  M-rigaterr ton                                                                            PstR3egit                                                                                                     of 3  h         t Aisr.iriusbed
2.    od-rojj  lcnis                                            Hydrolqos                   2.   Schemes                                                                               M.scp        o  Pfojems                                                                               21n f  Mfa di                   ir Naeor
Prolqcts                           2    Matter plan5F       ~      ~     ~~~~~f RearhaQaiyM.j-r Medium                                                                                             11 KukadMir   eim                                                  1Jykdl             l                 xMdium,
3.  C--trl D,sip[                                               Irrgntion Proiect                 Dev-lopme-                                                 C-ntro                    & Nlin- Prl)lac-                   2) Krishn                         a Z.,o Pro.Ft          {Stg  I                                    Mlno P ......
Omanization                           ~~~~~~~~3.   rioinPcic              , MnrIrsto                                                         nt                        Pune FRiio.,                    31 BhiTan As -sd,bad                                                21 Jlry.kwdl,le Nqu
4.  Oyaral Pl-nn,                                               Snetqto                          Sch-ma                                                                                 Excpt Prol-                       41Wsr-                            R., pn, E ,,p,                        tg  11        l  lRei-l  
Cf Projects                                               jlirojee, Mahareshtra       4    L It jrgrria                                                                                                             dj Undaru                          Ref or, Es                          Snas jj..h4 Lsti Po_ Jndl
Engiceerig Res_rceh              Sihmems & Irri-                                                                      Ef          p-eer CS,es .                                             C.E. (Spo-fitdl,
nsutc, Nesic.                      ,tio  Develop-d, Pu-                                                                                                                                     Aur-qabaad
En,i_eerion SIaff                me-r C-rpor-i Lr
CcIjcge, hasik                   of Maharashtrt
4.   Kriahna, Gt-da-a.,           5    FPood Cnntrol                                                                                                                                                Upper
Narirad and Other                Suh-mrs ,                                                                                                                                                    Uper ni_ 
Rioce WaerorDisputes        6    Csteirsiucs &                                                                                                                                               I rrqti rarif
m.pro-emrtseto                                                                                                                                             Ss.ji-rUpe
Obd srinesit                                                                                                                                              ji riglto|rWrdh
7.  Orao ne Sch_mes                                                                                                                                              Sohemo
Wo-ld icr-2050d






YA~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A'.                                                                                 89'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F ~4198
'NY                            PA/ 3  M   A   D   H  Y  A       P   R  A   D   E  S   H
U                                                                                                                          P->   - -> --   r .A 'D [   J   (  \~  jX   t  j /  rN DA
t  )   (   89   \           /            \                                            Pro; sct C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Amast    an dna  N'CADS <  ofsc  ou>s}
/                                              At          ~~~~
t                   c,. N t  -' AGAa&                                                           Rl.r Au ar a2   A  '% nJ    YOVOYO  V6
vlI    '-                                                                                                                                 '-Pt ondre  5   r 
<A' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ "'
3S 4                                                              r   /N a n a e d:                                          V        r   F a / / 4 -      ,        1 ct B     d c e1 -   t : .  
-N'   - Yo AS 9 U  AGLGA                       0                                                   A0 NO  D0  Hn  Po .A       E            ,ve
__  . _  _  __
I~~~~~-  - ~~~~~~MAHARAHRAIRIAIN  IPRJC
A P A S  A IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N YS'
y4n                'I                     'A~~~~~~~~~~-g.-A
C AN
4  N                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           
yl-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-TR pSrnK10  ~6
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 E   04                                            O                                        A~






----PUSADIN                                                                A
__   __                                -z,h      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ 'PUSAD ~~~~~~~I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UPPER WARDHA AND UPPER PENGANGA
IRRIGATION SCHEMES
------    < ;  ~'~~~~~7u    \  ,-/>~~s~~~/~                        --Proposed C-nal Aig-n-nts
Proposed Cn-l Comm-d Areo
,SHEMBAC PIMPRI,.                                                       N.Proosd D.m and R.-a-o,n
Dam -nd DR--ins Under C-n--r
KALAMNURI                                                                                           P-cp.l MArtr
KMEHED                                          Eon
--,HANKI                           Mo  D nrcr Rod
# a OX                                                                                        StotN   H ,gh -o y
N I'll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ntoo -,ho
vb ' / <= | V ,, I At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATNAGAR|
0  >       GAO -5                                                         <-       H TAMSA ' 't                                            -      oo
OKOMTEnER 0   5\     0 5   20  25
r    ////   8   .   X i                                            X              _ BH~~~~~  ~     ~    ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O/KAR  )KabEFSo 5  b  15I
M_ O     0           d,
l~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N D H R8s A    "M D'  '  T
)55
UMRI                 P ~~~~~ND-R A D                 rs2nrH             C H
P-ST
A    BURP
.AA    INDIA
c UPPER WARDHA IRRIGATION SCHEME                         UPPER PENGANGA IRRIGATION SCHEME                                                                                       snuONno
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50ZNZv6d~                                                                               -                       -. -aE77l






IBRD 14317
I N   D    I A                                                                                                                                              JULY 19791
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION H PROJECT                                                                                                        GIRNA IRRIGATION SCHEME
GIRNA AND MULA IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Coral Under Construcron -
brigation Command Areaisi                                                          < <
Irrigor ed Areas.                                                                                       , _
Pote,,ial Irrigated Area                                                     ." , -
Exist,ng Canals
Eaisting Canal D,stributories
AMALNER
4- Kolhap,r Type Wears                                                                                                                                      AL
<I Doms ard Reservoirs
*    Principal Markets
A     Sub-Markets
= Rivers   1<v>/    \    v                                                                      ERA
---- Major District Roads
____Srare Khigooys                                         \PAROL
-     Nat onal H,gh.ay
Railroads
iH/i,Oroorroods  ; \)   .   *IG4SODA rDig... We
A---, ~         ~                                                _        .,~ J o,^teyh     
b00ndne, g,o,0 von ts,mo' d0 ,n.tbbr pt .,th Wrtd fno  an,                                                      )    
--5) ~     ~     -- - -- -
,rri,9sr,s,ro,vg,,or or rr,i,oa1si,l tSri or , tZsaD ldlet r,.ft/
PAKISTANX               a       t;;I,,  Sn  S
oreoisr- 1-               _ -  I '>                                                          i                                                                                 t
1,; |    z:\F PvT/G,3iL\,
599A   .   X   PR-           \        3   /                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0   S ~  10 XS 2  25
|SRI L-KA            :                                                       /HALIS AON                                       MIES                         lo           IS
0 Ar i4                                                                          /                                MULA IRRIGATION SCHEME
so,'  iasrro  /                                  ,b,'       )  ,          ,        <1700
Is f t } / > J / / / j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PaithaD Dam,
pI d N xt D0                                                   K, At           T-I   g  8 1            4         */                       {  (JAYAKWADI PROJECT)
-- -2       M0095 laam   z> >'Jmd  Wei                                                                  YOAr  tOo  garO-a______o--/
K ; , -*>> D..                                               CA        i        lXHDGAON                {//SHEVGAON \-o
<F O&y!,3Ao ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~!,1NAW111~
ne3r                              ,^        ~~~~~~~~~PATHARDI,
A9AiOO'N 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,,TSAO                                                                 l
a'  0 /                                           TISGAON            *        KILOMETERS 0           5      10  I       20      25
St 00050  onE                                MILES 010                                    5






IBRD 1431
JULY 1979
I N D I A
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
KRISHNA AND WARNA IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Nor+~  ,_ ,    D o.,-,-- Proposed Caorl Algnments
,roposed Comm-nd Areos.
By Cano'l
By 50-foot Pomnp Lift
E./ Eoisting Irrigoted Areas to Benefit from Project
AqUeduct
K.1h.(oirp.r Type Weirs
Existing Dam  rnd Reservoir
Dam  and Reserooirs Under Constrictimn
1. Sob-Markers to be mrpro-d
\ E.isting Sob-Markets
*  Existig Pr-cipal Markets
DUT i                                                     E-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Riting Canaol
< < ^ t.<Rivers
----Major District Roadls
Kanher Dam        %    1~> /         >    5                                                                              State High.ays
A   ' .   te   b       .        _                              -Na~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt,oral H,gh.cy
SATARAW   A O N  w =                                             g g |AR  NATA  (A
4                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 arsin. 0' \i ,a0,rr-0r, APU
rxnsxnotnorxooen  b7y,pr,inx, xrxcyn b,c nt                                                   Budr
KILOMETERS 0       5        10      15      20       25                                                         o                                   \
MILES 0            5             110         1'5                                                                                              - 
UMBRAJj  
-----.-.----
T,~ ~ *w  'OARr    R:t'1,                                                                                                                ; ' 
U S.S{.XwsetmKornentrol                                                                       =                                                L~~~~~~~~~
PAKISTA  I                                                            ...KatlpmdvUddeR)NDWAt#ttromrmoV vrdrmr
oo   >/   _ _ T>lsdE dmdahr   ceepome of uch bos                              PUR
_  . ~    ~     I






KUKADI IRRIGATION SCHEME
PARN5JRS.-
i  OTU-R  -   -B------------
KARJATk, KARIATX          KARMALAt
dB1HI..A                                                                                                      I       SHRIGONDA
S_ v t _<>/t \\ <~-- -              - - - -- - -                  s                     t IRGA TOSCES
KILOMETERS  _    _   1         20INDAMODLIB-                    /    R    d                                R                                                                  s                           Undero nsth
0m//                             mesSP 0ri-Z                   Ii\                                         |PA      A t         /~~
1'-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0/ 0,.   so  '/ h ,,                                                                                                            /"Y      
MI4/tLES /         /monm/o2mmnso,                                                                                   / b_ \0
BHM         IRIATO         SCEM                                                   KUDW;      M da,                                                                                                             I NlE EO  I Ao 1      s/



