CREDIT NUMBER 954 IN
Project Agreement
(Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 954 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    4/, 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred and ten million dollars
($210,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Maharashtra shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Maharashtra undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Maharashtra to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Maha-
rashtra shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Maharashtra: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Maharashtra
and the Association, Maharashtra shall prepare and furnish to


﻿- 3 -
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Maharashtra
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Maharashtra shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Maharashtra agrees to:
(a) carry out the works under Parts A and B of the Project
in accordance with design and construction standards and planning
criteria agreed between the Association and Maharashtra; and
(b) operate and maintain the completed works under Parts A
and B of the Project in accordance with procedures agreed betweeen
the Association and Maharashtra.
Section 3.02. In order to maintain quality control of the
Project works, Maharashtra agrees to:
(a) establish a quality control unit in each of the irriga-
tion schemes under the Project, by January 1, 1980; and
(b) appoint a senior engineer in Maharashtra's Department of
Irrigation, who shall be responsible for the quality control units
under Section 3.03 (a).


﻿Section 3.03. Maharashtra agrees:
(a) to establish by October 1, 1980 and thereafter maintain
a training program under Part G of the Project acceptable to the
Association; and
(b) to establish within the Command Area Development
organization of Maharashtra's Department of Irrigation a cadre of
land development and water management specialists and fill the
established posts in such cadre as and when each distributary
block is commissioned and as and when staff trained under the
training program referred to under sub-section (a) above becomes
available.
Section 3.04. Maharashtra agrees to establish, in consulta-
tion with the Association:
(a) new water allocation procedures in the Project Area,
such procedures to be in effect in each distributary block not
later than two years after the first water delivery; and
(b) a training and visit agricultural extension scheme in
the Project Area, such scheme to be in effect in each distributary
block not later than two years after the first water delivery.
Section 3.05. Maharashtra agrees to take all necessary
measures to minimize malaria and other water-related diseases in
the Project Area.
Section 3.06. Maharashtra agrees to cause the canal systems
included in the Project to be operated and maintained in accor-
dance with sound engineering practices and to provide each of
its Command Area Development authorities with sufficient funds to
carry out the said operation and maintenance.
Section 3.07. Maharashtra agrees to maintain all the roads
included in the Project in accordance with sound engineering
practices and shall provide promptly as required, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.08. Without limiting the generality of Section
2.01, Maharashtra shall, under arrangement satisfactory to the
Association, cause the dams and related structures constructed
under the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are


﻿- 5 -
any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations
of the same, which may endanger their safety. To this end,
Maharashtra agrees to maintain an independent panel of experts
with responsibility of advising on all Project dam engineering and
construction in order that they conform to sound engineering
practices, with special reference to dam safety, and carry out the
recommendations of the said panel.
Section 3.09. Maharashtra agrees, for the purpose of carrying
out Part F of the Project, to establish by January 1, 1980 a
monitoring and evaluation unit in the Office of the Command Area
Development Commissioner.
Section 3.10. Maharashtra agrees to:
(a) complete by December 31, 1980, a review of its existing
water and water-related charges in Mah,rashtra; and
(b) commence by July 1, 1081, experimental schemes with
different systems of volumetric charges to promote efficient water
use by consumers, said schemes to be based on the findings of the
review referred to in sub-Section (a) above and comments by the
Association on the said review; and
(c) commence by December 31, 1983, a system of volumetric
charges based on the evaluation of the experimental schemes
referred to in sub-Section (b) above. The system shall ensure
direct recovery of annual operation and maintenance costs and, to
the extent possible, cost of infrastructure investment, having
regard, inter alia, to the incentive and repayment capacity of
farmers and the overall budgetary requirements of Maharashtra.
Section 3.11. Maharashtra agrees, after the completion of the
Project, to continue the development of the irrigation schemes in
Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga and Warna and
complete the said development as soon as it is technically and
financially feasible to do so.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Maharashtra shall cause each of its various
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of


﻿-6-
the Project, to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project or
any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Maharashtra shall cause each of its various
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of
the Project to: (i) have the accounts and financial statements for
such part of the Project as the department or agency may be
responsible, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of the said financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requeste6;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Maharashtra:
Chief Secretary to the Government
of Maharashtra
Mantralaya
Bombay, India
Cable address:                  Telex:
RESTIS                         011 2443 DGPR IN
Bombay


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed
by the Chief Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such
other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing,
and Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Byideen                                    v
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
for dams and main canals shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Maharashtra shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Maharashtra shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Maharashtra of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goodi in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Maharashtra and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 11 -
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Maharashtra may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applyin& for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Maharashtra and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Maharash-
tra, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works on dams and main canals estimated
to cost the equivalent of $6,000,000 or less may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The manufacture and installation of gates for dams and
canals may be carried ou!: departmentally.
3.   Contracts for other civil works may be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
4.   Contracts for light equipment and vehicles may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Maharashtra shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Maharashtra
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Maharashtra and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 13 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Maharashtra and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to (a) any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or (b) granting a
material extension of the stipulated time for performance of such
contract, or (c) issuing any change order under such contract
(except in cases of extreme urgency) which would increase the
cost of the contract by more than 15% of the original price,
Maharashtra shall inform the Association of the proposed modi-
fication, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Association, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform Maharashtra and state the reasons for its deter-
mination.'


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /       day of
1980
FOR SECRETARY


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      '     day of          ,
1980.
FOR SECRETARY


