OF?IT L       CREDIT NUMBER 954 IN
<DOC'UMESNTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 954 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Maharashtra (hereinafter called
Maharashtra), Maharashtra has agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Maharashtfa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules


﻿- 2 -
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(b) "Project Area" means the combined areas of the Krishna,
Kukadi, Upper Warda, Upper Penganga, Warna, Girna and Mula schemes
in Maharashtra.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two hundred and ten million dollars ($210,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1


﻿-3-
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1990, and ending October 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and eabh installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Maharashtra to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all actioq, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Maharashtra to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Maharashtra will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
Maharashtra.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the execution of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Maharashtra has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of thle General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is
legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date            16   /9ID    is hereby
specified for the purposes of SecVion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Dehli
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By          ,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BybC           L         t
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works             170,000,000        70% of expendi-
tures incurred
to March 31,
1983; 50% of
expenditures
incurred after
March 31, 1983
(2) Equipment and            24,000,000        100% of foreign
Vehicles                                  expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory; and
70% of other local
expenditures
(3) Technical                 6,000,000        100%
assistance
(4) Unallocated              10,000,000
TOTAL         210,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 7 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association. that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after October 16, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if suzh reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way res-
tricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is the continuation of irrigation development in
the areas of the Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga,
Warna, Girna, and Mula schemes over a period of five years. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Work on 11 dams; construction of about 900 kilometers of
main and branch canals; construction of distribution
systems and drains; and construction or modernization of
about 620 kilometers of link roads.
Part B:   Modernization of existing main and branch canals,
distribution systems and drains in the areas of the
Girna and Mula schemes.
Part C:   Strengthening of the command area development authori-
ties, including agricultural extension and applied
research, modern management services and operation and
maintenance in the Project Area.
Part D:   Provision of vehicles and equipment for Project works
and for operation and maintenance.
Part E:   Expansion of Maharashtra's Pilot Water Management
Program.
Part F:   Establishment of a program for Project monitoring
and evaluation.
Part G:   Establishment of a training program for land development
and water management specialists.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1984.


