Document of
The 'World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18126
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLET-ION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY (SPARK) PROJECT
(LOAN 3274-CHA/CR]EDIT 2186-CHA/JGF TF27230-CHAO
June 30, 1998
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Renminbi .
Cunrency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1988    US$1 = Y 3.71
1989    US$1 = Y 3.71
1990    US$I = Y 4.72
1991    US$1 = Y 5.22
1992    US$1 = Y 5.38
1993    US$1 = Y 5.45
1994    US$1 = Y 8.70
1995    US$1 = Y 8.31
1996    US$1 = Y 8.30
1997    US$1 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC      -   Agricultural Bank of China
CIB      -   China lnvestment Bank
CIEC     -   China International Economic Consultants
EIRR     -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR     -   Financial Internal Rate of Return
ICR      -   Implementation Completion Report
ISTIC    -   Institute of Scientific and Technical Information of China
ISTCs   -   Institutes of Scientific and Technical Information
JEDIC    -   Jilin Province Economic Development Investment Corporation
JGF      -   Japanese Grant Facility
JPTIC    -   Jilin Province Trust and Investment Corporation
MIS      -   Management Information System
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOST   -   Ministry of Science and Technology
PFIs     -   Participating Financial Institutions
SOEs    -   State-Owned Enterprises
SPO      -   Spark Program Office
SSTC    -   State Science and Technology Commission
STB      -   Science and Technology Bureau
TA       -   Technical Assistance
TVEs    -   Town & Village Enterprises
Vice President      Jean Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager      Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Manager.       Helen Chan, Operations Officer, EASFS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface ..............                                                      iii
Evaluation Summary                              .v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives               .4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .13
D. Project Sustainability                    .17
E. Bank Group Performance                     .18
F. Borrower Performance .19
G. Assessment of Outcome  ...................                        19
H. Future Operation ...................                              20
I. Key Lessons Leamed .20
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .23
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .23
Table 2: Related Bank Group Loans/Credits .24
Table 3: Project Timetable .25
Table 4: Loan/Credit/JGF Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .26
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .26
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .28
Table 7: Studies included in Project .28
Table 8a: Project Costs in Yuan Million .29
Table 8b: Project Costs in US$ million .30
Table 8c: Project Financing .................                        30
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .32
Table 11: Compliance with Opeiational Manual Statements .32
Table 12: Bank Group Resources: Staff Inputs .33
Table 13: Bank Group Resources: Missions .33
Appendix A: ICR Mission's Aide Menioire.                                    34
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .62
Appendix C: List of Subprojects Financed under the Loan and Credit  .   ..113
Appendix D: Agricultural Bank of China-Financial Statements for Years Ending
December 31, 1994-96                 ... .......116
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Appendix E: China Investment Bank-Comparative (Projected And Actuals)
Financial Statements for Years Ending December 31, 1990-97 ........ 117
Appendix F: Jilin Province Trust And Investment Corporation-Comparative
(Projected And Actuals) Financial Statements for Years Ending
December 31, 1990-97 ............................................  118



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY (SPARK) PROJECT
(LOAN 3274-CHA /CREDIT 2186-CHA /JGF TF27230-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Rural Industrial
Technology (Spark) Project, for whichi Loan 3274-CHA in the amount of US$50 million
and Credit 2186-CHA in the amount of SDR 45.1 million (US$64.3 million equivalent)
were approved on December 4, 1990 and made effective on June 16, 1991. The project
was cofinanced with a Japanese Grant Facility (JGF 27230-CHA) which was effective on
the same date. The JGF was closed on December 31, 1996. Its last disbursement took
place on April 3, 1997. The loan and credit were closed on September 30, 1997 and were
fully disbursed. The last disbursement of the loan took place on December 22, 1997 and
the last disbursement of the credit took place on December 31, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Helen Chan (Task Manager) in the Financial Sector
Development Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region and Naiqin Lu, Operations Officer in
the Resident Mission of China, and reviewed by Messrs. Hoon Mok Chung, Manager,
Private Sector Development Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region and Yukon Huang,
Director, China Country Unit. The boirrower provided comments that are included as an
appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank Group's final supervision mission
in July/August 1997. The ICR is based on discussions and findings at the final
supervision mission and discussions at the end of April 1998 in Beijing, and
documentation in the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by preparing relevant data and information, contributing views expressed in the mission's
aide memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






v -
CHINA
RURAL INDUSTRLIL TECHNOLOGY (SPARK) PROJECT
(LOAN 3274-CHA/CREDIT 2186-CHA /JGF TF27230-CHA)
EVA]LUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    With the emergence of a rapidly growing and dynamic rural nonstate enterprise
sector in the early 1980s, and with the Chinese Government's determination to be more
active in utilizing science and technology developed in China in the real sector, the
Ministry of Science and Technology, (MOST)1 initiated a pilot Spark program in early
1985. The Spark program became a nationwide program in 1986. Its overall objective is
to help transfer technological and managerial knowledge from the more advanced sectors
to rural enterprises in support of continued growth and development in the nonstate rural
enterprise sector, mostly town and village enterprises (TVEs) and to help increase output
and employment. This project was the first Bank Group-supported operation in China
specifically oriented to rural nonstate industry. Spark is not an acronym, it signifies that
"one small spark can start a prairie fire," a reference to the anticipated catalytic effect of
the program on rural enterprise development.
Project Objectives
2.    The project was designed to: (a) provide institutional support services to the rural
enterprises through the provision of training, technical and management information,
technical evaluation methodology, anld consultant services to the national Spark program,
but some support services were targeted to the three project areas: Jiangsu and Jilin
Provinces, and Chongming Island in the Shanghai municipality; and (b) provide financial
support to China's ongoing Spark program in the three project areas. The project also
emphasized the dissemination of technological and managerial knowledge acquired
through project activities to other rural enterprises which are not direct  project
beneficiaries.
3.    The project comprised four components: (a) an enterprise modernization
component which provided commercial and precommercial credits to rural nonstate
industrial enterprises; (b) a Spark training component to help upgrade training programs
and Spark training centers; (c) a technology information component to help design a
TVE-focused information system at the Institute of Scientific and Technical Information
of China (ISTIC) and 16 local Institutes of Scientific and Technical Information (ISTIs);
In the early 1998 government reorganization, the State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) was renamed as
the Ministry of Science and Technology.



- vi -
and (d) an institutional development component for a Management Information System
(MIS) development, technical evaluation training development for Spark program offices
throughout China, and financial institutions training.
4.    Component (a) was a line of credit operation through participating financial
institutions (PFIs). Components (b), (c) and (d) were technical assistance activities which
offered training, construction and equipping training centers, development of and
equipment needed for information services. Principal target beneficiaries were the Spark
Program Office (SPO) in MOST, Spark program offices in local Science and Technology
Bureaus (STBs), ISTIC, local ISTIs, TVEs and county collectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Overall, the implementation experience and results of the project have been
positive. Despite a very slow start, all project components were satisfactorily completed.
About 98 percent of the project funds were disbursed within the original closing date of
September 30, 1996. The closing date was extended for one year, mainly to complete
disbursements for the precommercial subprojects. All project objectives were met, but
subloan repayments remain low. Technical assistance components had very positive
effects on rural nonstate enterprises development. Some subprojects and some technical
assistance activities had substantive dissemination effects on nonproject beneficiaries.
The above positive outcome notwithstanding, one disappointment has been the poor
subproject performances and low subloan repayment status. This possibly reflects a
countrywide tendency, highlighting the seriousness of financial and enterprise
development issues.
6.    Technical Assistance Components. About 10 percent of the project fund went to
institutional support. Achievement of this objective was substantial. All project activities
were completed, and knowledge acquired in the project has been applied to other Spark
program activities far beyond the project scope during implementation and is expected to
be sustainable. The design of the three technical assistance components was appropriate
for sustainable development of the nonstate rural industrial sector. As a result of the
project, rural nonstate enterprises have access to technical and marketing information,
consultant services, and training opportunities that were either nonexistent or inadequate
at the time of project preparation. Government institutions, such as the Spark Program
Offices in Beijing and the three project areas, ISTIC, lower levels ISTIs, and training
centers, are now much better equipped to serve the rural enterprise sector both in terms of
range and quality of services.
7.    Under Spark training, a total of 34 training courses were conducted for 1,500
trainees, four modem training centers were established (Nanjing, Jiangyin, Changchun,
and Chongming) and modem  equipment in computer, video production facilities,
language and scientific laboratories, and infornation systems were procured for the four
Spark training centers. The four training centers evolved into key training centers in the
Spark program system. As the TVE sector grew rapidly in the past decade, training for



- vii -
rural enterprises was very much demand-driven. The Spark training program had
responded appropriately using teaching methodologies learned and training materials
developed in the project, such as the instructional packages, teaching materials,
curriculum, and audio/video productions. The beneficiaries, including rural enterprises,
Spark training centers and technical colleges, found these materials very useful and used
them frequently.
8.    A computerized technical information system  was set up in the ISTIC,
interlinked with 16 local ISTIs in the three project areas, with thousands of technical
databases for rural enterprises. These networked systems provide technical, economic,
marketing, and sales channel information to TVEs and have been utilized frequently.
Subsequently, in response to advances in and growing use of personal computers and
popularity of the internet, ISTIC developed a nationwide network information resource
system in 1997. It focuses primarily on science and technology information, but also
includes economic, cultural and educational information. Some services are fee-based.
This development was not originally anticipated at project appraisal. It reflected the
adaptive approach of the Spark program and the catalytic role the project has played. The
project also helped to produce broadcast-quality videos of "Spark Science and
Technology" programs targeting TVEIs and farmers. They featured mature technology
recently adopted by both TVEs and farmers nationwide. These videos are continuously
being prepared by ISTIC and the programs are broadcasted twice a week on national,
provincial, and local TV stations and are very well received by audiences leading to
numerous requests for follow-up information on featured technologies. A consulting
company was established at ISTIC to provide consultant services to rural enterprises.
This project has thus greatly enhanced consultant service development in China.
9.    A management information system (MIS) was set up for the national Spark
program in MOST and the three project areas. The MIS provides detailed information on
Spark subprojects, from their applications for funds to project completion. However,
financial information of subprojects in terms of profitability, subloan repayments, and
sustainability are inadequate. The MIS therefore needs improvements in order to serve
the Spark program more effectively.
10.   The project offered technical evaluation training to staff in national, provincial
and local Spark program offices (SPOs). This training was to provide SPO staff with
technology evaluation skills so as to approach Spark project evaluation in a systematic
way, and to equip them with analytical techniques and sources of information so that they
could offer quality help to rural enterprises.
11.   The project also provided training for PFIs. In 1993, the Jiangsu ABC and CIB
went to Philippines for project appraisal training at a Philippine financial institution.
Shanghai ABC had local training in 1993 as well. JPTIC arranged training at its own cost.
All PFIs attended a course on technical evaluation arranged in the project. In retrospect,
training provided to PFIs was too little too late. If we expect the PFIs to perform
satisfactorily, either they should have received sufficient training prior to project



- viii -
implementation or they should have been established financial internediaries which had
sufficient experience in sound project lending and good portfolio management. In
addition, the macroeconomic framework has to be in place.
12.   All technical assistance activities in Beijing were cofinanced with a Japanese
Grant Facility (JGF). Due to substantial appreciation2 of Japanese Yen against US
dollars from 1991 to 1995, there were additional resources in the JGF in terms of US
dollars. Seven additional TA activities, largely extensions of the original TA activities,
were undertaken in 1996. These activities included multimedia and CNC technology,
pilot consultant services, case studies to extend project-oriented TA activities to Spark
intensive areas and an overall assessment of the Spark program from 1986 to 1996. Most
of these activities were trial applications of knowledge and techniques acquired in the
project. Lessons learned from these applications would greatly benefit future applications
and dissemination.
13.   Enterprise Modernization Component. About 90 percent of the project funds
were relent to 92 rural nonstate enterprises through- four PFIs in the commercial credit
subcomponent and 16 precommercial subprojects through the two Jiangsu PFIs which
acted as financial agents. All project funds have been fully utilized.
14.   Of the 108 rural nonstate enterprises supported by the project, 83 were TVEs and
25 county collectives. A total of 86 were existing enterprises, while 22 were new
establishments. Funds were committed over a period of six years from 1991 to 1996,
much slower than appraisal estimates which expected all subprojects to be committed by
December 1992. The subprojects were first prescreened by local STBs for their eligibility
under the Spark program, then they were forwarded to the PFIs for project appraisal. The
average subloan size was US$950,000, and 13,600 new jobs were directly created by
these subprojects.
15.   By project closing date of September 30, 1997, subproject results have been
mixed. Among the commercial subprojects, about 38 percent reached operational
capacity and operated profitably. Yet some are not repaying their loans to PFIs. About 39
percent were not profitable due to cost overruns during implementation, delays in
operational startup, delays in obtaining sufficient working capital, and tight liquidity (due
mainly to the typical triangular debts among Chinese enterprises). If some of these could
be resolved, like availability of additional funding from project sponsors and guarantors,
some of these enterprises would have an opportunity to turn around and be profitable in
two to three years. The remaining 23 percent have serious problems, such as failure to
obtain counterpart funds, prolonged delays in construction, market changes, poor product
quality, technical incompetence and poor management. Out of these 23 percent, 10
percent had stopped production, 9 percent have serious financial difficulties and 4 percent
2  There was an additional USS570,000 more in the JGF account in 1995 due to the continuous Yen appreciation relative to
the US dollar between 1991 and 1995 (from ' 142 in 1990 to 3f10S in 1995).



- ix-
have been under construction since 1995, and the outlook for them does not look
promising. Chances of full loan recoveiy are unlikely.
16.   A major objective of the national Spark program was the diffusion of technical
and managerial knowledge from successful projects to other nonproject beneficiaries. In
the Bank Group project, this objective was realized through some successful subprojects.
At the end of 1997, there were about 15 subprojects that were able to achieve this
objective. Most successful subprojects became pillar industries in their respective "Spark
intensive areas." They led to vertical and horizontal integration of related industries either
in their own localities or extended to other provinces. One Jiangsu beneficiary enterprise
joined the national Spark West Exploration Program in setting up plants in the Sichuan
province applying the managerial and technological know-how nurtured in its Jiangsu
plant. With technology mastered through a Spark subproject, a Jilin group company
helped to design machinery in plants in Zhejiang province. A small Chongming
beneficiary enterprise helped to set up four plants and has developed cooperative
production partnerships with eight plants in Chongming and Shanghai. These are
successful examples of Spark's diffusion activities. SPOs expressed that without the
Bank Group project, these projects probably would not be implemented as availability of
capital remained a constraint to rural eilterprises.
17.   Out of a total of 92 commercial subprojects, the PFIs reevaluated financial and
economic viability of nine subprojects after subproject completion. Subprojects were
selected for calculation of ex-post EIRR and FIRR based on the following criteria: (a) a
minimum of two subprojects from each of the PFIs; (b) enterprises from different sectors
and different cities of the three project areas; (c) an even mix of successful and less
successful subprojects; (d) half in repayment stage; and (e) subprojects of different
project sizes. The nine subprojects accounted for about 10 percent by number of
commercial subprojects and 13 percent of the loan/credit amount disbursed to the
commercial subprojects. The ex-ante economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) ranged
from 19 percent to 73 percent while the ex-post EIRR ranged from 1 percent to 84
percent. The ex-ante financial internal rates of return (FIRRs) ranged from 18 percent to
49 percent while the ex-post FIRR ranged from 8 percent to 31 percent. Actual results
were generally lower than original estimates because of project delays, higher input prices
and lower output prices than appraisal estimates.
18.   The financial institutions were the central actors in determining project
sustainability, as they appraised and supervised 90 percent of project funds to final
beneficiaries. Generally, financial institutions were inadequate in their project appraisal
and supervision. Their unsatisfactory performance was partly due to existing financial,
enterprise, and legal systems; policies and regulations in China. The current systems and
policies did not offer financial institutions much freedom nor incentives in exercising
their decisions in key operating areas such as: bad debt provisions, subloan restructuring
and rescheduling, legal proceedings against subborrowers in case of deliberate default,
*   legal obligations of guarantors, bankruptcy, or other actions that may be needed in case of
default.



x -
19.   Despite operational success of a substantial number of subprojects, subloan
repayment has been low. As of December 31, 1997, principal subloan repayment was
only 18 percent of total principal due and interest payment 31 percent of cumulative
interest accrued. Jiangsu CIB's subloan repayment reached 65 percent of principal due,
Jiangsu ABC 15 percent, JPTIC 20 percent, and Shanghai ABC 2 percent at the end of
1997. Many subborrowers were not able to repay on schedule mainly because of: (a) the
original subloan repayment terms were very short, usually only a one year grace period;
(b) nonviable projects resulted from inadequate market analysis; (c) cost overruns were
frequently due to unrealistic cost estimates; and (d) local government interfered in
internal enterprise management, such as requests to absorb bankrupt enterprises. Another
issue is enterprise culture. Loan repayment was often not the top priority of borrowing
enterprises. Additionally, loan supervision by financial institutions was often secondary
to new lending. Given this background, if the PFIs reschedule repayment terms based on
realistic subproject cash flows, half of the enterprises could repay their loans in the next
two to three years, including some that were not operating profitably in 1997.
20.   The precommercial subprojects are risk-sharing ventures that support
technology development in enterprises preceding full-scale commercialization. As the
concept was innovative, there was a lack of understanding of the delivery mechanism in
the early stage of project implementation. Together with many other issues on other
project components, this component was held in abeyance while SPO and Jiangsu STB
explored different delivery alternatives. A draft contract, and roles and responsibilities of
different parties were finally agreed in mid-1994 and commitments under this
subcomponent started in August 1994, with 16 subprojects committed between 1994 and
1996. All subborrowers are expected to repay the subloans. As of December 1997, ten
had completed implementation and six, approved in 1996, had started implementation.
Jiangsu STB expected that about 50 percent could become commercial subprojects in the
medium term. Lessons learned from one of the more promising precommercial subproject
are that: (a) the sponsor has prior successful experience in similar fields; (b) the sponsor
has strong technical support, not only from the research institute that provided the
technology, but also from national expertise; and (c) market assessment is correct. Failing
precommercial ventures are missing one or more of these elements.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
21.   The project's simultaneous focus on multiple target groups, different government
entities, enterprises and financial institutions in various provinces and localities made the
project very complex and difficult to manage and supervise. It was particularly difficult
because: (a) all project beneficiaries (except CIB) were new Bank Group borrowers; (b)
the proper financial and enterprise sector framework was not in place; and (c)
expectations that financial institutions perform as bona fide lending institutions and that
enterprises, including the less-regulated TVEs, behave truly as independent entities were
unrealistic. Another major factor that made the project very difficult to implement was
the three-year elapse time between project appraisal in June 1998 to project effectiveness
in June 1991. Economic and financial environment on which the project was built on had



- xi -
changed substantially during that periodl. Performance of the initial batch of subprojects
was less satisfactory because of this substantial delay.
22.   At the time the project was appraised, it was expected that it would be the first of
a series of subsequent operations to support the rural nonstate industrial sector. However,
as a result of the experiences gained from this project and other industrial projects and
lines of credit operations in China, the Government and the Bank Group realized that the
generic issues in the financial and enterprise sectors needed to be resolved before
committing to further lending operations to enterprises through financial institutions. This
means that subsequent operations have been significantly curtailed.
23.   There are six main lessons to be learned from this operation:
(a) Successful execution of technical assistance requires full commitment and
participation of all stakeholders throughout the process. It was achieved in
this project. It shows that our client agencies are very receptive to technical
assistance if TA activities are well conceived.
(b) National ownership is important. Spark is a national program and the Bank
Group is only helping to strengthen it. The Ministry of Science and
Technology takes prides in the Spark accomplishments.
(c) Sound organizational setup and dynamic leadership for project
implementation are essential to project success. This is particularly important
for projects that have many implementing agencies in different project areas.
(d) The Bank Group's project supervision missions should be staffed adequately
with technical staff/consultants throughout implementation. Sufficient budget
should be allocated for this purpose. This was unfortunately not the case.
(e) Financial institutions should strengthen their expertise in subproject
evaluation, including adequate selection criteria, market assessment, cost
estimates, realistic implementation schedules, subborrowers' implementation
and repayment capabilities, counterpart funding requirements and
availability, and awareness of environment issues. However, even if these
issues were fully addresseid by financial institutions, enterprises undertaking
projects in the context of limited financial and enterprise reforms still face
many constraints under the current national policy framework. The Bank
Group should recognize these constraints in project preparation and try to
seek solutions. If the Banik Group realizes that these issues could not be
solved  through  individual  investment  project  in  the  absence  of
macroeconomic structural adjustmnents, then they should be clearly spelled
out in project documents in order to avoid unrealistic expectations.



- xii -
(f) For lines of credit operations using financial intermediaries to be successful,
some basic structural changes in the economy in the financial and enterprise
sectors are needed:
(i)  stricter enforcement of laws, such as commercial banking law, company
law, and bankruptcy law;
(ii) enterprise behavior in terms of honoring loan repayment obligations
and ensuring timely repayments;
(iii) institutional behavior and performance standards of the financial
institutions, such as subproject selection criteria, appraisal standards,
portfolio management, adequacy of bad debt provision, etc.; and
(iv) local governments' attitudes to financial institutions and enterprises, i.e.
local governments treat banks as conduits of funds to enterprises, and at
the same time, they are more concerned with enterprises' social
obligations and taxes rather than causing enterprises to repay bank
loans.



- I -
CHINA
RURAL INDUSTRLAL TECHNOLOGY (SPARK) PROJECT
(LOAN 3274-CHA /CREDIT 2186-CHA/JGF TF27230-CHA)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. With the emergence of a rapidly growing and dynamic rural
nonstate enterprise sector in early 1980s, and with the Chinese Government's
determination to be more active in utilizing science and technology developed in China in
the real sector, the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST)1 initiated a pilot Spark
program in early 1985. The Spark program became a nationwide program in 1986. Its
overall objective was to help transfer technological and managerial knowledge from the
more advanced industrial sector to rurl enterprises in support of continued growth and
development in the nonstate rural enterprise sector, mostly town and village enterprises
(TVEs) and to help increase output and employment. This project was the first Bank
Group-supported operation in China specifically oriented to rural nonstate industry. Spark
was not an acronym, it signifies that "one small spark can start a prairie fire," a reference
to the anticipated catalytic effect of the program on rural enterprise development.
2.    Project Objectives. The project was designed to provide:
(a) institutional support services to the rural enterprises including: (i) transfer
effective training tools to the Spark training program, (ii) transfer to the
Institute of Scientific and Technical Information of China (ISTIC) and local
Institute Scientific and Technical Information (ISTCs) of a system of new
approaches to build up relevant databases and delivery information services
to rural enterprises, (iii) development of consultant services for town and
village enterprises (TVEs), (iv) development of tools for technology
evaluation, (v) design ajid introduction of an effective and responsive
management information system for the national Spark program, and (vi)
strengthening of the Spark Program offices in the MOST system and the
ISTIC system by providing necessary tools; and
(b) financial support to China's ongoing Spark program in three diverse areas of
China: Jiangsu province., Jilin province, and Chongming Island in the
Shanghai municipality. Jiangsu has the most dynamic TVE sector in China
and is increasingly technically sophisticated and export-oriented. Jilin is an
In the early 1998 govemnment reorganization, the State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) was renamed as
the Ministry of Science and Technology.



-2 -
important agricultural center, and its economy is dominated by state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) in heavy industry. Chongming is an island off the coast of
Shanghai, which, despite its proximity to Shanghai, remains an
underdeveloped agricultural island. The project also pioneered the concept of
risk-sharing precommercial credits in the Jiangsu province. The project
provided credits to eligible rural enterprises through four participating
financial institutions (PFIs). Results obtained in both objectives were
expected to be replicable or disseminated to other rural enterprises all over
the country.
3.    Objective (a) was fulfilled satisfactorily, and the outcome far exceeded appraisal
estimates. The many innovative features introduced in the project were not only
successfully implemented and put into application, but were also used in activities which
were not anticipated at project appraisal. This demonstrates the fact that technical
assistance, if well implemented, provides more value added to our clients than investment
financing. Objective (b) was considered achieved even though some enterprises
experienced financial and operational difficulties and most have repayment problems.
4.    Project Description. The project comprised four components:
(a) enterprise modernization component, its two subcomponents were:
(i) commercial credit subcomponent: provided credits to rural nonstate
enterprises through four PFIs, the Shanghai and Jiangsu branches of the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), the Jiangsu branch of the China
Investment Bank (CIB), and the Jilin Province Trust and Investment
Corporation (JPTIC), and
(ii) precommercial credit subcomponent: provided credits for risk-sharing
precommercial activities in the Jiangsu province through the two
Jiangsu PFIs;
(b) Spark training component: supported technical assistance and training
programs for key managers and trainers at the national and lower-level Spark
training centers;
(c) . technology information (TI) component: supported the design of a TVE-
focused information system at ISTIC and 16 Institutes of Scientific and
Technical Information (ISTIs) in the three project areas, together with pilot
programs in diffusion and information consultancy; and
(d) institutional development component, its three subcomponents were:
(i) management information system (MIS) subcomponent, to design and
implement a small, user-friendly national Spark Program MIS in



- 3 -
Jiangsu and Jilin, and at MOST, with the intention of ultimately
creating a shared, interlinked MIS for the entire Spark program,
(ii) technology evaluation (TE) subcomponent-to design and deliver
training programs on the evaluation of industrial subprojects
incorporating innovative technology for the Spark program offices all
over China, and
(iii) financial institution training-to provide training to project staff in the
PFIs for preparation amd management of TVE projects.
5.    Component (a) was a line of credit operation through PFIs. Components (b), (c)
and (d) were technical assistance activities which offered training, construction and
equipment for training centers, development of and equipment needed for infornation
services. Principal target beneficiaries were the Spark Program Office (SPO) in MOST,
Spark program offices in local Science and Technology Bureaus (STBs), ISTIC, local
ISTIs, TVEs and county collectives.
6.    Main Features of the Bank loan, IDA credit and the Japanese Grant Facility
(JGF). The People's Republic of China was the borrower of the Bank loan and IDA
credit and the beneficiary of the Japanese Grant Facility. The Bank loan has 20 years of
maturity with five years of grace and carries the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
The IDA credit has 35 years of maturity with 10 year grace and has the standard IDA
terms. All proceeds from the Bank loan and the IDA credit were relent to Jiangsu and
Jilin provinces and the Shanghai municipality, of which:
(a) 85 percent of the IDA credit and 100 percent of the Bank loan were for the
commercial credit subcomponent. Bank proceeds were relent to ABC, CB
and JPTIC for 15 years including 5 years of grace for the commercial credit
component. The PFIs were allowed to roll over the funds;
(b) 5 percent of the credit was allocated to precommercial credit activities in the
Jiangsu province. The Jianigsu provincial government bore the credit risk and
the Jiangsu PFIs acted as financial agents, receiving fees for their services;
and
(c) 10 percent of the credit was for technical assistance activities in components
(b), (c), and (d). The JGF provided support to activities at the national Spark
program in Beijing.
The Spark Program Office (SPO) in MOST was in charge of all technical activities in
Beijing and coordinated all project activities in the three project areas.
7.    Onlending Arrangements of the Enterprise Modernization Component.
Onlending arrangements of the two subcomponents were:



-4 -
(a) Commercial Credit Subcomponent. The PFIs onlent the Bank Group
proceeds to rural nonstate enterprises. The subloans were normally between 3
and 7 years, and under no circumstances to exceed 12 years. In this
subcomponent, the PFIs bore the credit risks. There were foreign currency
and local currency subloans:
(i) For foreign currency subloans, the PFIs relent Bank Group proceeds to
subborrowers at the Bank Group's variable rate plus a minimum of 2
percent. Subborrowers were responsible for the foreign exchange risk
between the dollar and the Renminbi.
(ii) For local currency subloans, the PFIs relent Bank Group proceeds to
subborrowers at an interest rate of not less than the prevailing rate on
fixed assets loans for technical renovation projects of similar maturity
set by the People's Bank of China.
At the start of project, the Bank Group reviewed all subproject appraisal
reports submitted by each PFI. The free limit for each PFI began when the
Bank Group was satisfied with the quality of appraisal reports.
(b) Precommercial Credit Subcomponent. The two Jiangsu PFIs managed
Bank Group funds for the Jiangsu provincial government and received an
agent fee for their services. The Jiangsu government bore the credit risk. The
interest rates on the precommercial subprojects were higher than prevailing
commercial rates and were different for each subproject depending on their
profitability rates after subproject completion.
8.    Eligibility Criteria of Subprojects. The subprojects financed with the Bank loan
and IDA credit were to meet the following eligibility criteria: (a) industrial projects,
including agroprocessing, (b) TVEs, county collectives or joint ventures controlled by
TVEs; (c) STBs justification that proposed projects have a technological content beyond
the standard investment, expansion, or modernization; (d) economic internal rates of
return (EIRRs) of at least 12 percent for subloans exceeding US$300,000 and financial
internal rates of returns (FIRRs) of at least 12 percent for all subloans; and (e)
subborrowers to finance at least 20 percent of the subproject investment costs.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Institutional Support to the National Spark Program.
9.    About 10 percent of the project funds went to technical assistance activities for
institutional support. Achievement of this objective was substantial. All project activities
were completed, and knowledge gained during the project has been applied to other Spark
program activities far beyond the project scope during implementation and are expected
to be sustainable. The design of the three technical assistance components was
appropriate for sustainable development of the nonstate rural industrial sector. As a result



- 5 -
of the project, rural nonstate enterprises have access to technical and marketing
information, consultant services, and training opportunities that were either nonexistent
or inadequate at project preparation. Government institutions, such as the SPOs in the
national Spark program, ISTIC, lower levels ISTIs, and training centers are now much
better equipped to serve the rural enterprise sector both in terms of range and quality of
services. From 1992 to 1997, a total of 54 courses/workshops were conducted in China
for 2,100 trainees, along with 10 overseas training/intermships for 80 trainees.
10.   The Spark training component started in April 1992 with a three-year,
41 person-month contract with ORT, a British management training institute. The
objective was to strengthen and modernize the Spark training program to meet TVEs'
development needs more effectively. Major emphasis was placed on training demand
assessment, training program evaluation and curriculum development, participatory
training methodology, design of training program for microcomputer applications,
multimedia application in training, trainers' training, and design and production of
multimedia instructional packages for adult training. During the implementation period,
34 workshops and training seminars were conducted by foreign and local experts in the
four training centers and 4 overseas study tours were undertaken. Participants totaled 277
and all were managerial, training, andL technical staff from more than 20 provinces in the
Spark training system. Their participation resulted from better planning in training
programs and training development in Spark training centers. The SPO prepared a Study
on the Long-Term Training Program as required in the project at the end of 1993.
Since the Spark training component was delayed for more than a year, the study was
revised at the end of 1994 to reassess contributions of the training component and set
priorities for further short- and long-term improvement of Spark training. It has also
helped to guide the Spark training program development over the next few years. At the
same time, as the TVE sector grew rapidly in the past decade, training for rural
enterprises was very much demand-driven. The Spark training program had responded
appropriately using teaching methodologies learned and training materials developed in
the project, such as technical instructional packages, manuals, curriculum, and
audio/video productions. The beneficiaries, including rural enterprises, Spark training
centers and technical colleges, foumd these materials very useful and used them
frequently.
11.   Multimedia Instructional Packages. Five instructional packages using
multimedia technology were prepared from 1994 to 1997-"CNC machine tool" and
"human resources development in Tv'Es" packages in Jiangsu, "modified starch" in Jilin,
"household electronics" in Chongming, and "DPC applications in cotton production" in
Beijing. All instructional packages, except the "household electronic appliances"
instructional package, were found to be very useful for users. Continuous upgrading has
been underway. They were used for adult education in the Spark training centers, in
technical colleges, and by industrial enterprises. As TVEs mushroomed in the 1990s, the
Jiangsu SPO understood that human resources development in the TVE sector was
essential to TVEs' healthy growth in the future, it published a book on "Human
Resources Management for Small and Medium Enterprises" in 1996, based on the



- 6 -
"human resources development in TVEs" instructional package, so that the general public
could access the knowledge easier. The book is sold in bookstores and is very popular.
12.   Training Centers. The IDA credit provided 50 percent of the construction cost
and provided essential equipment for four training centers. It helped to equip different
laboratories, such as microcomputer applications, language, video production,
instructional production, video production laboratories. Other than the 34 workshops and
courses offered under the Spark training component, all training courses in these centers
were financed either by the provincial/municipal government or by training fees charged
to the trainees. Of the four training centers targeted to be financed under the credit, only
the Nanjing training center did not utilize its allocated funds for building construction,
as it found alternative financing. However, the training center was equipped with
equipment from the credit. The training it offered is intensive, emphasizing computer
applications, ISO 9000, technical assessment, financial management, and auditing. The
Chongming Training Center on Chongming Island was the first to be completed among
the three training centers whose construction was financed under the credit. It started
training at the end of 1992. Despite its geographic disadvantage (no road linked it to
mainland China, thus only sea transportation is available), it evolved into a major
regional training center among the Spark training facilities. It provides many types of
adult education with emphasis on computer application, finance and accounting, English
language, mechanical automation, public relations, documentation management, air
conditioner installation techniques, automatic instruments, construction quality, legal
regulations, etc. Many participants were from Shanghai and other provinces. By 1997, it
reached nearly 100 percent capacity utilization and was able to reach a cost recovery rate
(direct training cost) of 40 percent. It aims at full cost recovery in the next few years. This
is a significant improvement over other Spark training centers which rely principally on
government financing of their training programs. Construction of the new Jiangyin
training center in Jiangsu was completed only in late 1996, but it had utilized its older
building to carry out many training activities since 1993, principally in language,
accounting, and hotel services. The 1997 mission advised it to place more emphasis on
training such as marketing, project risk analysis and project management. Construction of
the new Changchun training center in Jilin was completed in early 1996. Training
activities since 1993 were conducted in its old building. It emphasizes finance and
auditing, Spark project management, computer applications, and enterprise management.
Utilization rate was high, but cost recovery was low. Training programs took many forms
and varied in duration. Most participants were technical, financial, and managerial staff
from rural enterprises. Post training evaluations of the training programs was very
positive.
13.   The technology information component was designed to: (a) set up a technology
inforrnation system, including databases and computer networks--the information
organization and retrieval subcomponent; (b) develop an extension mechanism to transfer
information more effectively to TVEs through audiovisual, publications, training, and
development of a fee-based, service-oriented consultant services for TVEs--the
information diffusion subcomponent; and (c) strengthen information transfer process--the



- 7 -
information design and structure subcomponent. A contract was signed with the China
International Economic Consultants (CIEC) in March 1993. A total of 14 person-months
of technical experts and advisors worked with ISTIC counterpart group. Five training
courses were conducted by foreign consultants on technical information systems,
information analysis and synthesis, teichnical information management, and development
of fee-based consultant services for senior managerial and technical staff at ISTIC and
local ISTIs. The design and implementation plan of the technology information system
was completed in October 1993, and equipment was procured for ISTIC and local ISTIs
to help information transfer. Subsequently, this led to:
(a)  establishment of computerized technical information systems in Jiangsu, Jilin
and Chongming ISTIs and 16 local ISTIs. This is a major objective of the
component. Several thousand databases covering tens of thousands of rural
enterprises were developed and were linked to the network. These networked
systems provide technical, economic, marketing, and sales channel
information to TVEs and have been utilized frequently. Their current
emphasis is on expancling information sources, establishing regional
networks, and further development of information and consulting services;
(b) due to advances in and growing use of personal computers and popularity of
the internet, ISTIC de veloped the Chinainfo, a nationwide network
information resource system, in 1997. It focuses primarily on science and
technology information, but also includes economic, cultural and educational
information. This center has 26 local networks in different provinces and
municipalities across the country. It also provides domestic and international
on-line retrieval and verification services. Retrieval requests exceeded 1,000
in 1997. Some services offered are fee-based. Its income has been used to
upgrade their facilities and information content. Chinainfo, a legally
independent entity, has been financially self-sufficient since 1997. This was
not originally anticipated at project appraisal. Its establishment reflects the
adaptive approach of the Spark program;
(c) broadcast-quality video production of the "Spark Science and Technology"
programs targeting TVEs and farmers. They feature mature technologies
recently adopted both by farmers and rural enterprises nationwide,
development of Spark intensive areas and pillar industries, and directions of
the Spark program. These programs are currently broadcasted twice a week
on national, provincial and local televisions. These programs are very well
received by audiences, and there have been many requests to the program
asking for additional information about technology introduced in the TV
program. This is an excellent tool to diffuse knowledge acquired and
technologies mastered in Spark projects. Its popularity, coverage and
frequency of use has gone well beyond original project scope;



-8 -
(d) production of many high quality audio and video tapes of newly established
and matured technologies that could be adopted by farms and rural
enterprises, such as poultry and fish raising, fruit and vegetable cultivation,
etc. for farmers; and food processing, machine tools, packaging technologies,
etc. for rural industries. These tapes are provided to farmers and rural
entrepreneurs and are particularly useful in remote areas;
(e)  establishment of consulting services at ISTIC. A follow-up consulting
contract with a foreign consultant firm encouraged further development of
domestic consulting services in China. Two senior staff from SPO and ISTIC
served internships with the foreign consulting firm to learn hands-on
consulting services in the United States. Starting in 1996, ISTIC started to
offer technology exchange conferences 30-40 times a year to disseminate
technical information to TVEs. These are free and have been attended by
over 8,000 TVEs so far. ISTIC also offered market studies and provided
management and strategy consulting to TVEs. These are fee-based; and
(f)  publication of a book by the Spark Program Office on "Guideline to
Consulting Services for TVEs" in 1997. This book was published due to the
growing demand to develop quality consulting services for TVEs,
particularly in the more remote rural areas.
14.   Under the Institutional Development Component, the MIS subcomponent
started in May 1992 and was completed in August 1994. It was intended to develop Spark
program management-oriented databases in MOST, Jiangsu, and Jilin STBs and would
become the basis for a more comprehensive MIS for the Spark program at a later stage.
Spark project databases were constructed, and a Spark program MIS was developed in
MOST and the three project areas. The national MIS was upgraded in 1997. The system
provides Spark project applications nationwide, approvals, sectoral and regional
distribution, financing, implementation, and the results of Spark subprojects (not only
limited to World Bank-financed projects). However, financial information of subprojects
in terms of profitability and subloan repayments are inadequate. The MIS therefore need
improvement in order to serve the Spark program more effectively.
15.   A second subcomponent was the technology evaluation subcomponent which
started implementation in August 1993 and was completed in September 1995. This
subcomponent focused on training provincial and county SPO staff. This training
program was intended to help SPO staff acquire technology evaluation skills, allowing
them to approach Spark project evaluations in a systematic way, and equip them with
analytical techniques and sources of information so that they could offer quality help to
rural enterprises. This is necessary, since in some remote rural areas the local SPO may
be the only source of assistance for rural enterprises. Three training courses were
conducted for 80 SPO staff in 1993 and 1994, and in September 1996, two training
manuals were prepared: the Industrial Project Technical Evaluation for Small and



-9-
Medium Enterprises, one for trainers and one for trainees. They are currently used by
SPOs in many Spark locations.
16.   A third subcomponent was the financial intermediary training subcomponent
which provided project appraisal and management to the Jiangsu and Shanghai PFIs.
Both Jiangsu ABC and CIB went to Philippines for training in 1992 and 1993
respectively in a course specifically arranged for them by a Philippines financial
institution. Shanghai ABC had training in Shanghai in 1993. All PFIs attended the
training courses offered in the technology evaluation course in 1993. In retrospect, the
training program was too little too laile. If we expect the PFIs to perform satisfactorily,
either they should have received sufficient training prior to project implementation; or
they should have been well-establ:ished financial intermediaries which had prior
experience in project lending and portfolio management. In addition, the macroeconomic
framework has to be in place.
17.   The Japanese Grant Facility (JGF). All technical assistance activities in Beijing
were cofmanced with a Japanese Grant Facility. Due to substantial appreciation2 of
Japanese Yen against US dollars from 1991 to 1995, there were additional resources in
terms of US dollars in the JGF for the Spark project in 1995. Seven additional TA
activities, extensions of the original TA, were undertaken in 1995 and 1996:
(a) ORT was awarded another training contract for further study of multimedia
and CNC technology. "The DPC (a chemical) application in cotton
production" instructional package was the outcome. This teaching material
was well received and has been used by cotton farmers, technical colleges,
and Spark training centers.
(b) A pilot project on consulting services was undertaken. Under the guidance of
a foreign consulting firm, four local consulting firms won contracts to
provide technical, management, and marketing consultant services to selected
rural enterprises in the three project areas. The local consulting firms were
selected through national competition, and they had to look for enterprises
which were willing to participate and willing to share some of the cost. The
main objective of this activity was to help local consultant firms to conduct
consulting services to better serve TVEs. Through this pilot project, it could
be concluded that consulting services for TVEs in China is still in its infancy
stage.
(c) Three case studies in Chongming, Jiangsu, and Hunan Spark intensive areas
were undertaken. The emphasis of the Spark training, TI, and TE components
was largely oriented towards individual projects. These case studies went a
2   There was approximately $570,000 more in the JGF account in terms of US dollars in 1995 due to the continuous Yen
appreciation relative to the US dollar between 1991 and 1995 (from  142 in 1990 to  1f05 in 1995).



- 10-
step further. They took the knowledge acquired and experiences learned from
the three TA components and put them into the context of the entire Spark
intensive areas development with the objective of expediting industrialization
and development of rural areas which have a high concentration of TVEs.
This is important for the Spark program as the program is changing its focus
from project-oriented assistance to Spark intensive areas and Spark small
areas development.
(d) An overall assessment of the Spark program was undertaken in 1996. The
book "Evaluation of the Spark program" provided candid assessment and
development of the Spark program from 1986 to 1996. The book was well
prepared and was a useful tool for further program development.
(e) The MIS was upgraded in 1996 to improve capability of the system.
These were all small TA consultant contracts, except for the MIS which was a technical
upgrade, from US$12,000 to US$100,000. They drew on experiences learned and
techniques developed in the project for dissemination to the rural enterprise sector.
18.   Originally, 50 percent of JGF was allocated to consultant services and 50 percent
to equipment purchase. At project completion, 60 percent of the grant was utilized for
consultant services and 40 percent to equipment purchase.
19.   Experiences with Consultant Contracts. The Spark project had a total of 15
consultant contracts. The SPO in Beijing was in charge of selection and signing contracts
with all the consultant firms on behalf of MOST. The contracts ranged from US$982,000
(the ORT contract) to US$12,000. The two larger ones were with foreign consultant
firms. The rest were with Chinese consultant firms, some had foreign consultants as their
core team. Over 20 foreign consultants were involved in the Spark project. The project
entities generally felt that project coordination of the consultant project was key to the
project's success. They felt that foreign consultant firms were better organized than
Chinese consultant firms. Their consultants were generally highly qualified, offered
advanced ideas and different visions, had better presentation and teaching skills and
materials, prepared good reports, and were very dedicated to their work. Foreign
consultants recruited by Chinese consultant firms had similar work attitudes and
organizational skills. However, the project entities believed that if the foreign consultants
had been more knowledgeable about China and the Chinese rural industrial sector, their
contributions could have been far greater. Yet, the overall experience was positive. The
project entities considered the Chinese consultant firms adequate, but could learn a lot
from foreign consultant firms, particularly documentation and dedication.
Financial Support to China's Spark Program
20.   Fund Utilization. About 90 percent of the project funds were relent to 92 rural
nonstate enterprises through four PFIs in the commercial credit subcomponent and 16



- Il -
precommercial subprojects through the two Jiangsu PFIs in the precommercial
subcomponents. All project funds have been fully utilized.
21.   Subproject Characteristics. Out of these 108 subprojects, 83 of the subprojects
were TVEs and 25 county collectives. A total of 86 were existing enterprises and 22 were
new establishments. The Bank Group approved the subprojects committed over a period
of six years from 1991 to 1996 with 60 percent approved between 1994 and 1996, much
slower than appraisal estimates which, expected all subproject funds to be committed by
December 1992. Subloan commitments were late partly because the project had a
difficult and slow start, and partly because the first few subproject appraisal reports from
PFIs reviewed by the Bank Group needed substantive clarifications and revisions. About
55 percent of the subproject appraisal reports were reviewed by the Bank Group. The
subprojects were first prescreened by local STBs for their eligibility in the Spark
program, then they were forwarded to the PFIs for project appraisal. As a result, these
108 subprojects were selected from several hundred prospective applicants. The largest
subloan was about US$2.8 million, anid the smallest were the precommercial subprojects
of about US$200,000 each, with an average subloan size of US$950,000. Total financing
cost amounted to Y 1,902 million3, of which 39 percent was financed with Bank Group
loan/credit, 35 percent with loans from local banks, and 26 percent self financing. Over
60 percent of the total project costs was for foreign currency expenditures. From 1993 to
1996, 13,600 new jobs were directly created by these subprojects.
22.   Commercial Subprojects lriplementation. Subproject results are mixed. At
project completion, 35 subprojects (out of 92) of the commercial subprojects have
reached operational capacity and are oiperating profitably. Yet some are not repaying their
loans to PFIs. 36 subprojects were not profitable due to cost overruns during
implementation, delays in operational startup, delays in obtaining sufficient working
capital, and tight liquidity (due mainly to the typical triangular debts among Chinese
enterprises). If some of these could be resolved, like availability of additional funding
from project sponsors and guarantors, some of these enterprises would have an
opportunity to turn around and be profitable in two to three years. 21 subprojects have
serious problems, such as failure in obtaining counterpart funds, prolonged delay in
construction period, market changes, poor product quality, technical incompetence, and
poor management. Ten had stopped production already. Eight subprojects have serious
financial difficulties and chances of turning around to be financially viable is unlikely.
Three are still under construction since 1995, and chances of full loan recovery in the
near future are not promising.
23.   A major objective of the national Spark program is the diffusion of technical and
managerial knowledge from successful projects to other enterprises. In the Bank Group
Spark project, this objective was realized through some successful subprojects. At the end
of 1997, there were about 15 subprojects that were able to achieve this objective. There
3  US$232 million at the current exchange of US$I to Y8.2.



- 12 -
could be additional demonstration effects when more subprojects become operationally
successful. As most subprojects started operations only in 1995 and 1996, it is likely that
more diffusion cases could be introduced in the next few years. Most successful
subprojects became pillar industries in their respective "Spark intensive areas." They led
to vertical and horizontal integration of related industries either in their own localities or
extended to other provinces. One Jiangsu beneficiary enterprise joined the national Spark
West Exploration Program in setting up plants in Sichuan province applying the
managerial and technological know-how nurtured in its Jiangsu plant. With technology
mastered through the Spark subproject, a Jilin group company helped to design
machinery in plants in Zhejiang province. A small Chongming beneficiary enterprise
helped to set up four plants using technology mastered and has developed cooperative
production partnerships with eight plants in Chongming and Shanghai. These are
successful examples of Spark diffusion activities. The SPOs expressed that without the
Bank loan, these projects probably would not be implemented as availability of capital
remained a constraint to rural enterprises. Annex 5 of Appendix A shows some
representative cases of subproject diffusion.
24.   Economic and Financial Internal Rates of Return (EIRR and FIRR) of
Commercial Subprojects. Out of a total of 92 commercial subprojects, the PFIs
reevaluated financial and economic viability of nine subprojects after subproject
completion. Subprojects were selected for calculations of ex-post EIRR and FIRR based
on the following criteria: (a) a minimum of two subprojects from each of the PFIs; (b)
enterprises from different sectors and different cities of the three project areas; (c) an even
mix of successful and less successful subprojects; (d) half in repayment stage; and (e)
subprojects of different sizes. The nine subprojects accounted for about 10 percent by
number of commercial subprojects and 13 percent of loan/credit amount disbursed to the
commercial subprojects. The ex-ante EIRRs ranged from 19 percent to 73 percent while
the ex-post EIRR ranged from 1 percent to 84 percent. The ex-ante FIRRs ranged from 18
percent to 49 percent while the ex-post FIRR ranged from 8 percent to 31 percent. Actual
results were generally lower than original estimates because of project delays, higher
input prices and lower output prices than appraisal estimates.
25.   Precommercial Subprojects Implementation. These subprojects are risk-
sharing ventures that support technology development in enterprises preceding full-scale
commercialization. As the concept was innovative, there was a lack of understanding of
the delivery mechanism in the early stage of project implementation. Together with the
many issues on the other components, this subcomponent was held in abeyance while
SPO and Jiangsu STB explored different delivery alternatives. A draft contract and roles
and responsibilities of different parties were finally agreed in mid-1994, and
commitments under this subcomponent started in August 1994, with 16 subprojects
committed between 1994 and 1996. As of December 1997, ten have completed
implementation and six, approved in 1996, have started implementation. Jiangsu STB
expected that about 50 percent could become commercial subprojects in the medium
term. Experiences learned from one of the more promising precommercial subproject are
that: (i) the sponsor has prior successful experience in similar fields; (ii) the sponsor has



- 13-
strong technical support, not only from the research institute that provided the
technology, but also from national experts; and (iii) market assessment is correct. Failing
precommercial ventures are missing one or more of these elements.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Loan Effectiveness and Impllementation Schedule. The project was approved
by the Bank Group's board on December 4, 1990. The Loan, Credit, Provincial Project,
Financial Intermediaries Project and JGF Agreements were signed on January 17, 1991
and became effective on June 14, 1991. The JGF was scheduled to be closed on March
31, 1996 which was extended to December 31, 1996. The last disbursement was on
December 22, 1996. The project completion and closing for the loan and credit were
scheduled for March 31 and September 30, 1996, respectively. About 98 percent of the
project funds were disbursed within the original closing date of September 30, 1996. The
closing date was extended for one year to September 30, 1997, mainly in order to
complete disbursements of the precommercial subprojects. The last disbursement of the
loan was on December 31, 1997.
27.   Factors Affecting the Project. The project's simultaneous focus on multiple
target groups-different government entities, enterprises and financial institutions in
various provinces and localities-made the project very complex and difficult to manage
and supervise. It was particularly difficult since: (a) all project beneficiaries (except CIB)
were new Bank Group borrowers; (b) the proper financial and enterprise sector
framework was not in place; and (c) the assumption that financial institutions perform as
bona fide lending institutions and enterprises, including the less-regulated TVEs, behave
truly as independent entities was unrealistic. Consequently, there were three major factors
affecting implementation of the project: (a) a delayed start in project implementation; (b)
low subloan repayments; and (c) financial institutions unable to perform their duties as a
bank due to lack of macroeconomic framework.
28.   A Delayed Start in Project Implementation. The project had a very difficult and
slow start for two major reasons: (a) a three-year elapse time from project appraisal in
June 1988 to project effectiveness in Jume 1991. Economic and financial environment on
which the project was built on had chamged substantially during that period. The initial
batch of subproject was less satisfactory because of this substantial delay; and (b) the
project's simultaneous focus on multiple target groups, different government entities,
enterprises and financial institutions in various provinces and localities made the project
very complex and difficult to manage and supervise. Except for CIB4, all other project
beneficiaries were new Bank Group borrowers, thus procedures and requirements had to
be explained and clarified at the start of the project. In addition, due to the diversity of
project components, it took over a year to clarify with project entities on project activities
and approaches to start. With the diligence and commitment of the Spark Program
4  The Bank had not dealt with the Jiangsu and Shanghai ABC branches before this project.



- 14-
Offices, project activities started to pick up in 1992. But it had already resulted in delays
of all components by about a year. Eventually, project activities came back on track and
implementation progressed satisfactorily. The enterprise modernization component was
the most affected. Commercial subprojects were fully committed only in 1996, while
appraisal estimates expected them to be fully commitment by 1992. The precommercial
component did not start until mid-1994.
29.   Subloan Repayments. Of the 92 commercial subprojects, three have fully repaid.
Despite relative operational success of a substantial number of subprojects, principal
subloan repayment was only 18 percent of total principal due, and total interest payment
was 31 percent of total cumulative interest accrued as of December 31, 1997. Major
reasons for the low repayments were:
(a) Unreasonably Short Repayment Terms. Subloans usually had three year
repayment terms, including a one year grace period. All Spark subprojects
were investment projects and some had to import equipment. Thus it was
unrealistic to expect a subproject to be completed in one year and repayment
to start in the second year. In addition, most subprojects started commercial
operations only in 1995 and 1996, and 1997 was their first or second year of
operations. Even those enterprises which could repay expressed the heavy
burden of loan repayment in their first or second year of operations;
(b) Inadequate Market Forecasts. As technologies introduced in the Spark
subprojects were usually innovative in the locality or maybe even in the
country, insufficient market analysis led to many not so successful
subprojects, affecting sponsors' ability to repay;
(c) Unrealistic Cost Estimates. Cost estimates were usually too low, resulting in
cost overruns. This affected both the sponsors' ability to raise additional
counterpart funding and their ability to repay;
(d) Financial Institutions' Delayed Remedial Actions and Subloan
Rescheduling. Loan supervision was often secondary to new lending. Late
payments stayed on books for years without remedial actions. Rescheduling
was often legally not allowed until repayments were seriously late for a few
years;
(e) Honoring Financial Obligations by Borrowing Enterprises. Loan
repayment was often not the top priority of borrowing enterprises. New
project investment, construction, and other social obligations took precedence
over loan repayment; and
(f) Local Government Interference. Some successful Spark subprojects were
asked to absorb financially bankrupt enterprises by local governments. This
has had serious consequences on Spark subloan repayments. The sponsors
had to support these enterprises financially, divert their managerial and



- 15 -
technical staff to help them, and ultimately failed to meet their own loan
obligations.
During Bank Group desk reviews of subproject appraisal reports of above free limit
subloans, issues (a) to (c) and the issue of financial viability of prospective beneficiaries
had always been the issues. It was these issues that often delayed Bank Group approval of
the subprojects. However, after a sequence of queues and correspondence, the PFIs had
always been able to revise the subproject appraisal reports to the Bank Group's
satisfaction. In retrospect, the Bank Group should probably be stricter in its review of
subproject appraisal reports. However, desk review does not constitute Bank Group
appraisal of the subprojects and the Bank Group ultimately relies on the PFIs' appraisals.
30.   Remedial Actions and Outlook of Subloan Repayments. The poor repayment
performance of these subprojects reflects more generic issues in China's financial and
enterprise systems that need to be addressed at the macro level. The recent financial and
enterprise reforms would help to improve matters in the longer term. The Bank Group
had requested the PFIs and local SPOs to prepare remedial actions for subprojects which
were not repaying. These remedial actions were reflected in the rescheduling/
restructuring plans in the Borrower's contribution to the ICR. Some subprojects were
rescheduled, some received technical assistance to change technology which was
technically unsound, some strengthened their sales and marketing strategies, some
obtained additional financial assistance from guarantors, local governments and other
banks, and some diversified to other production activities. Even with this rescheduling,
the Bank Group felt that repayment is imlikely to pick up in 1998. This low expectation is
due to the general economic conditions in China and the East Asia region which are
slowing down China's economy, and. also because most of the subprojects had only
begun operations in 1995 and 1996. Blut in the medium term of 3 to 5 years, about 60
percent will probably succeed and could repay their loans. This is very much contingent
on the success of financial and enterprise reforms currently underway in China.
31.   Roles and Performances of Financial Institutions. The PFIs were the central
actors in determining project sustainabtility, as they appraised and supervised 90 percent
of project funds to final beneficiaries. 'However, the project provided only 0.2 percent of
the budget for training the two ABC branches and CIB Jiangsu. All PFIs attended one
training course on technology evaluation. This is considered totally inadequate in
relations to the role they played in the project. Nonetheless, the performance of the PFIs
could be improved if they had paid more attention to: (a) realistic assumptions for
financial projections of enterprises; (b) attainable capacity utilization of the subprojects;
(c) sufficient emphasis on enterprises' management and technical abilities; and (d)
adequate market analysis and counterpart funding requirements of the subprojects.
Additionally, PFIs should also pay more attention to portfolio management and the
importance of realistic subloan repaynment terms. Their unsatisfactory performance was
partly due to existing financial, enterpriise and legal systems, and policies and regulations
in China. The current systems and policies did not offer financial institutions much
freedom nor incentives in exercising their decisions in key operational areas, such as bad



- 16-
debt provision, subloan restructuring and rescheduling, legal proceedings against
subborrowers in case of deliberate default, legal obligations of guarantors, bankruptcy, or
other actions that may be needed in case of default.
SUBLOAN DISTRIBUTION AND SUBLOAN REPAYMENT STATUS
AMONG FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997
No. of  Amounts of  Percent      Principal   Interest payment
Financial  commercia  subloans  distribution repayment as %  as % of
institutions   1        (US$    of subloan of total principal  cumulative
subprojects  million)    amount      due       interest accrued
ABC Jiangsu     30        39         39           15             17
ABC             16        19          19           2              0
Shanghai
CIB Jiangsu     17        22         21           65             67
JPTIC           29        21         21           20             22
Total     92       101        100           18             31
32.   ABC delegated all subproject appraisal and supervision responsibilities to its
Jiangsu and Shanghai branches. The subprojects in Jiangsu ABC were in various cities in
southern Jiangsu, and the subprojects in Shanghai ABC were on Chongming Island. Both
branches were inadequate in their portfolio management and paid very little attention to
subloan collection. Its loan collection of the Spark subprojects at the end of 1997 was
close to zero.
33.   During project implementation, the Bank Group was unable to obtain meaningful
financial information, such as profitability, arrears, and collection data from the ABC
branches. Thus, the Bank Group was not able to assess financial performances of the
ABC branches. ABC did not provide the Bank Group with its 1997 financial statements
and 1994-96 financial data were extracted from their published annual reports only. Thus
the Bank Group was not able to confirm accuracy of these data.
34.  In 1995, ABC was reclassified from a specialized bank to a commercial bank.
ABC and the Bank Group are currently preparing an ABC Commercialization Project
aiming to accelerate its transformation into a profit-oriented, modem commercial bank in
both operations and management. In light of the Spark project experience, both China and
the Bank Group should review carefully the Bank Group's assistance strategy to ABC.
35.   CIB delegated all subproject appraisal and supervision to its Jiangsu branch,
which performed adequately. At the end of 1997, CIB's current ratio remained very low



-17-
at less than 0.5 percent-the lowest since 1990, its total debts were 25 percent of equity
-the highest since 1990, and net income was only 0.4 percent of total assets-a slight
improvement from previous years. All these financial indicators implied that CIB's
financial position was extremely weak.
36.   The Jilin Provincial Trust and Investment Corporation (JPTIC) was merged
with the Jilin Province Economic Development Investment Corporation (JEDIC) in
March 1991. JPTIC had assumed the rights and obligations of JEDIC and is the financial
intermnediary channeling the World Bank Spark project funds to Jilin Spark enterprises.
The new operating license was approved by the People's Bank of China in November
1991. Essentially there were no changes in its policy statement and operations.
37.   Its current staff totals 115, of which about 25 percent are financial and economic
staff. JPTIC has a Spark Project Department whose function includes appraisal, approval
and supervision of all Spark subprojects. The Spark Department has been staffed
sufficiently during the Spark project implementation period. JPTIC's activities include
deposit taking (local and foreign currencies), trust and investment (in industrial
enterprises and real estate), leasing, securities and brokerage services and underwriting,
credit information services, and consulting services to enterprises. JPTIC remains very
closely affiliated with the Jilin provincial government and is still supporting provincial
development projects. It is the princilpal window in Jilin province dealing with foreign
currency operations.
38.   JPTIC has been marginally profitable in the last few years, yet its financial
position weakened in 1997, due to the general economic conditions in China. At the end
of December 1997, its current ratio was 1.3, declining from 1996, but better than its early
years from 1990-95. Its total debt was 40 percent of total equity and had been at this level
for many years. In 1997, its net income was only 1.2 percent of total assets. These
financial ratios indicated that JPTIC vas financially weak and is not sustainable in the
long run if among others its loan collection does not improve.
D. PROJE CT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   It is likely that project objectives are sustainable for all technical assistance
components, but uncertain for thte enterprise modernization component. The
achievements generated in all technical assistance components have already exceeded
appraisal expectations and were demonstrated by the extensive use of various project
products at the national and lower levels of the Spark prograrn and by rural enterprises,
technical colleges, and the Spark training centers. The four training centers which the
project helped financed evolved into Icey training centers in the Spark training system.
The courses they offered are in high demand and are always completely filled. Project
results had reached far beyond the thr-e project areas. The MOST and ISTIC have also
determined to disseminate as much as possible project products to rural enterprises in the
interior provinces.



- 18-
40.   During project implementation, there was a gradual change in the Spark program
from provisions of preferential policies and funding to rural enterprises to provisions of
technology, information, and management services to rural enterprises. At the same time,
the focus of the Spark program has moved from project-oriented financial and technical
assistance to Spark intensive areas and Spark small areas development. This project has
played a significant catalytic role in this change.
41.   The Spark project operated in an environment that inhibits financial institutions
from playing their role as banks. Their emphasis was and still is on lending operation, and
project supervision is not a priority. They could rarely take legal actions against those
enterprises that did not repay their loans, nor could they collect from their guarantors.
They were not allowed to provide sufficient bad debt provisions, nor could they write off
their aging outstanding loans. Enterprises were also accustomed to a culture that loan
repayment is secondary to social obligations and new investment. At the same time, there
has been mounting pressure recently towards mergers/acquisitions that may not be
advantageous to successful rural enterprises. Thus, unless there are substantial and rapid
financial and enterprise reforms in China, it would be difficult to expect subloan
repayments to improve. Thus, as far as the enterprise modernization component is
concerned, the outcome is uncertain.
E. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
42.   The project preparation and appraisal missions did a comprehensive review of
technical assistance requirements to improve the national Spark program for the benefit
of rural enterprises. The Bank Group contributed enormous resources in preparation for
the technical assistance components with a well-defined program that properly addressed
the most critical areas to be attended to in the first project. However, expectations of the
Bank Group on financial institutions were very high for them to deliver the commercial
credits subcomponent satisfactorily despite the rudimentary nature of financial and
economic reforms in China in the late 1980s. Less than 0.2 percent of project funds were
allocated to training of PFI staff in project appraisal and supervision. Nonetheless, even a
much larger training program for the PFIs would not have improved subloan repayment
status and subproject performances given the macroeconomic framework.
43.   After project effectiveness, the Bank Group provided continual advice to project
entities on Bank Group policies and procedures, reviews of procurement document,
particularly on procurement of consultant services, and disbursement requirements. The
Bank Group also provided advice on preparation of subproject appraisal reports and
portfolio management. Bank Group staff followed closely the progress of all project
components and provided support to minimize delays. Nonetheless, Bank Group
supervision activities on the project could have been more effective had additional staff
resources been allocated. As the borrowers had always welcomed the Bank Group's
advice and comments and had the Bank Group allocated more budget for technical
support for supervision activities, the Bank Group could have contributed more to the
project's development.



- 19-
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   The SPO in MOST and provincial/municipal STBs in the three project areas
demonstrated full commitment to the project. The Spark Program Office, in charge of the
entire project, did an excellent job in managing implementation of all the technical
assistance components and coordinating work among all participating agencies, including
ISTIC, local ISTIs, local STBs, financial institutions and training centers. Each
province/municipality also formed a World Bank Spark Project office which managed
and oversaw implementation of their respective allocations. From 1992 to 1997, the SPO
organized seven Spark Project Implementation Workshops in the three project areas for
all project entities to review  work progress, discuss work programs, evaluate
achievements, and determine immediate and longer term goals. These workshops greatly
facilitated project implementation andl kept all participating agencies aware of project
development. The SPO also published project progress reports to be circulated among all
project entities on implementation of all components. These reports, sometimes published
as frequently as every quarter, provided informative news on progress and performances
of different agencies. Even though there were more than thirty project entities (excluding
the Spark subprojects) in the three project areas, Bank Group missions noted that the
project had been very well managed, and there was genuine cooperation among all
project entities. Even though there were many managerial changes in MOST and SPO
over the six implementation years, due to this extremely well-organized setup, project
issues have generally been resolved quickly in the past six years.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45.   Overall, project results are mixed. Technical assistance components were highly
satisfactory for several reasons: (a) the Government completed all technical assistance
components with great efficiency; (b) these activities provided essential support to the
TVE sector which had exhibited extraordinary growth in the past decade; and (c) the
national Spark program was strengthened as a result. Whereas, results of the enterprise
modernization component was unsatisfactory. As most subborrowers did not repay their
loans, the PFIs and ultimately the provincial/municipal finance bureaus would have to
bear the financial cost. Despite some Bank Group subprojects demonstrated diffusion
activities of technology and managemLent know-how to nonproject TVE beneficiaries
nationwide, these benefits in terms of income and employment generated in other
enterprises from the diffusion mechanism, may or may not recover the financial cost that
provincial/municipal governments have to bear eventually.
46.   With the support of local STBs, many of the Spark subprojects became pillar
industries of their respective "Spark intensive areas." They provided not only direct and
indirect employment opportunities, but led to growth of vertical and horizontal
integration of industries in the localities.
47.   The technical assistance components had extensive direct and indirect effects on
the overall provision of technical suppcrt services by different levels of STBs to TVEs.



- 20 -
The Chongming Training Center, despite its geographic disadvantage, has evolved into
an intensive high quality training center in the Shanghai area and its utilization rate has
reached 100 percent for more than two years.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
48.   The project has laid a good foundation for the national Spark program to grow and
expand. In the short and medium term, the Spark program should concentrate on
dissemination of various project activities, such as continual development of consultant
services for rural enterprises, further improvement and promotion of instructional
packages, utilization/promotion of the two technology evaluation manuals, extensive
utilization of all training programs and skills learned in the Spark training program,
cultivating productive use of the internet, improved utilization of the MIS, and many
other activities that deserve further cultivation and dissemination, to the interior
provinces in particular. In the longer term, the Spark program should reevaluate: (a) its
role as government agency to foster the development of a rural enterprise sector which is
the least regulated and the most robust in Chinese industries; and (b) its strategy in the
development of rural enterprises in the interior provinces.
49.   In regards to the subprojects operating profitably, the Government should avoid
burdening them with asset acquisitions/mergers which may be financially unattractive to
them. As to those subprojects with operational and financial difficulties, certain actions
need to be taken by the local government, the local STBs, and the financial institutions to
help the subborrowers turn around to be operationally competitive, financially viable, and
environmentally sound over time.
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   At the time the project was appraised, it was expected that it would be the first of
a series of subsequent operations to support the rural nonstate industrial sector. However,
as a result of the experiences gained from this project and other industrial projects and
lines of credit operations in China, the Government and the Bank Group realized that the
generic issues in the financial and enterprise sectors needed to be resolved before
committing to further lending operations to enterprises through financial institutions. This
means that subsequent operations have been significantly curtailed.
51.   The following major lessons were learned under the project:
(a) Successful execution of technical assistance requires full commitment and
participation of all stakeholders throughout the process. It was achieved in
this project. It shows that our client agencies are very receptive to technical
assistance which has proved to be very useful to the Spark program.
(b) National ownership is important. Spark is a national program and the Bank
Group is only helping to strengthen it. The Ministry of Science and
Technology takes prides in the Spark accomplishments.



- 21 -
(c) Sound organization setup and dynamic leadership for implementing the
project are essential to project success. This is especially essential for projects
that have many implementing agencies in different project areas.
(d) Provision of technical assistance needs to be driven by demand, rather than
supply. Measures and incentives to promote demand rather than promote
supply would made technical assistance more effective.
(e) Long-term (over one year) consultant contract should have the flexibility of
adjustment with the changing environment in the country.
(f) Rapid dissemination of project products should be carried out by MOST
immediately to avoid being outdated, and that could benefit the rural
enterprise sector tremendously. At the same time, those instruments and
products developed should be updated and revised continuously to keep their
usefulness.
(g) The Bank Group's project supervision missions should be staffed adequately
with technical staff/consultants throughout-implementation. Sufficient budget
should be allocated for this purpose. This was unfortunately not the case.
(h) Financial institutions should strengthen their expertise in subproject
evaluation including adequate selection criteria, market assessment, cost
estimates, realistic implementation schedules, subborrowers' implementation
and repayment capabilities., counterpart funding requirement and availability,
and awareness of environnmental issues. However, even if these issues were
fully addressed by financial institutions, enterprises undertaking projects in
the context of limited finanicial and enterprise reforms would still face many
constraints under the current national policy framework. The Bank Group
should recognize these constraints in project preparation and try to seek
solutions. If the Bank Group realizes that these issues could not be solved
with one individual investment project in the absence of macroeconomic
structural adjustments, then they should be clearly spelled out in project
documents in order to avoid unrealistic expectations.
(i)  For lines of credit operations using financial intermediaries to be successful,
some basic structural changes in the financial and enterprise sectors are
needed:
(i)  stricter enforcement of laws, such as commercial banking law, company
law, and bankruptcy law;
(ii) enterprise behavior in terms of honoring loan repayment obligations
and ensuring timely repayment;
(iii) institutional behavior and performance standards of the financial
institutions, such as subproject selection criteria, appraisal standards,
portfolio managemenit, adequacy of bad debt provision, etc.; and



- 22 -
(iv) local governments' attitudes to financial institutions and enterprises, i.e.
local governments treat banks as conduits of funds to enterprises, and at
the same time, they are more concerned with enterprises' social
obligations and taxes rather than causing enterprises to repay bank
loans.



- 23 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial   Negligible     Not Applicable
x
Macroeconomic policies                                               X
Sector policies                                                      X
Financial objectives
Institutional development                               X
Physical objectives                       X
Poverty reduction                         X
Gender issues                                                                         X
Other social objectives                                                               X
Environmental objectives                                             X
Public sector management                                X
Private sector development                              X
B. Project Sustainabiity                    Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
Technical Assistance Components               X
Enterprise Modenization Component                                                       X
CG. Bank Group Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                 X
Preparation assistance                         X
Appraisal                                                             X
Supervision                                                           X
D. Borrower Performance                  Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                     X
Implementation                                  X
Covenant compliance                                                 *X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome                  Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                                Unsatisfictory
Technical assistance Components /a          X
Enterprise Modemization Component                                                         X
/a It is necessary to assess the outcome separamely for the two distinct categories which were implemented by
different agencies and had very different outcome.



- 24 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title    Purpose                                                         Year of    Status
Approval
Ln. 2226-CHAI     To assist CIB in meeting the need for foreign exchange for industrial financing,    1983    Completed
Cr. 1313-CHA     improving investment efficiency, and organizing and improving CIB's capacity
First Industrial  for project design, selection, appraisal and technology transfer.
Credit Project
($71.5 million)
Ln 2434-CHAI      To continue the institutional building efforts of the first project, including  1984    Completed
Cr. 1491-CHA      expanding branches, assist in appraisal of larger projects and meet CIB's resource
Second Industrial   requirement.
Credit Project
(S183.2 million)
Ln 2658-CHAI      To assist CIB in fnancing productive facilities and resources in China to  1986    Completed
Cr. 1663-CHA      contribute to the country's economic and social development; to provide CIB with
Third Industrial  funds needed to develop its operations and carry out its Charter and Statement of
Credit Project    Policy Strategy.
($103.6 million)
Ln 2783-CHA/      To assist the government in promoting and implementing technology upgrading    1987    Completed
Cr 1763-CHA       and modernization in industry, to build up sound institutions and procedures for
Fourth Industrial    project appraisal and investment financing and to improve intermediation
Credit Project    practices; specifically, to continue institutional assistance to CIB and provide a
($300 million)    general line of credit for industry.
Ln. 2784-CHA      To assist the Shanghai Municipality to achieve product rationalization and product  1987    Completed
Shanghai Machine   upgrading; modernization and rehabilitation of manufacturing facilities; expansion
Tool Project ($100   of the design and engineering capabilities; and improvements in management
milUion)          systems for the machine tool sector within Shanghai.
Ln. 2838-CHA      To improve the production efficiency of existing medium-size plants through  1987    Completed
Fertilizer        plant renovations and upgrading technologies; expand phosphate production to
Rationalization   help achieve a more balanced nutrient input; and improve institutional capacity
Project ($97.4    through the introduction of more modem systems and techniques in financil and
inillion)         operational management
Ln. 2943-CHA      To assist the govermment expand phafmaceutical production by using modem  1988    Completed
Phannaceutical    technology; improve the quality of the products and introduce Good
Project           Manufacturing Practices (GMP) in selected enterprise and training programs; and
($127 million)    improve the quality, maintenance, marieting and management in the
phamaceutical industry.
Ln. 3075-CHA      Continuation of activities under the Fourth Industrial Credit Projeet  1989    Completed
Fiffh Indusri
Credit Project
(S300 miUion)
Ln. 3022-CHA      To assist the Tianjin Municipal Government in the implementation of the  1989    Completed
Ihanjin Light     development program and strategy that it had prepared for the three light industry
Industry Project    subsectors of the project
(S154 million)



-25 -
Loan/Credit Title    Purpose                                                              Year of     Status
Approval
lia. 3582-CHA      To assist the local authorities in Southern Jiangsu to strengthen their  1993      to be
Southern Jiangsu    environmental planning and majiagement capabilities, and to cany out priority   completed
Environmental      initiatives in the regional envirornmental strategy and action plans in an efficient  06130/2001
Protection Project   and effective manner.
($250 million)
Ln. 3788-CHA       Support Shenyang Municipal Government's reform program through the joint  1994     to be
Shenyang Industrial  SMG/Bank monitoring of implementation of a Reform Action Program and the       completed
Project            provision of technical assistance and training to underpin key aspects of SMG's  06/30/2001
($175 million)     reorganization. The project also r,upports two investment components: industrial
restructuring and corporatization, and environmental protection.
Ln. 3572-CHA       The main project objectives are to: (a) expedite policy and enterprise reforms at  1994  to be
Tianjin Industrial    the regional level; (b) modemize and restructure the subsector based on economic  completed
Development        and commercial viability; (c) strcngthen institutional infrastructure; (d) improve  06/30/2000
Project            the organizational structure and intemal enterprise management systems; and (e)
(S150 million)     diversify and strengthen the financial intermediation process.
Ln. 4045-CHA       To assist Chongqing Municipality to: (a) achieve a significant reduction in  1996  to be
Chongqing          pollution and restructure productive facilities from its most polluting industries,  completed
Industrial Reform    iron and steel; (b) establish a strategy and prepare a long-term plan to achieve a  12/31/2002
Project            major reduction in pollution for the whole sector, and (c) initiate a pilot effort to
($170 million)     assist industrial enterprises in oth[er industrial sectors to restructure their
productive facilities, control polluition and transform themselves into modem
corporations.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                      Date planned                 Date actual
Identification                                           September 21, 1987         September21, 1987
Preappraisal                                               March 10, 1988              March 10, 1988
Appraisal                                                   June 17, 1988               June 17, 1988
Negotiations                                              February 26, 1990          February 26, 1990
Board presentation                                        December 4, 1990           December 4, 1990
Signing                                                   January 17, 1991            January 17, 1991
Effectiveness                                               April 17, 1991              June 14, 1991
Project completion                                         March31, 1996             September30, 1997
Loan closing                                             September 30, 1996          September 30, 1997



- 26 -
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT/JGF DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY91  FY92   FY93  FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97         FY98
Loan/Credit
Appraisal estimate            6.00 12.10  43.50   75.90   98.70   114.30
Actual                             4.01   22.50   75.71   94.31   109.64   112.20    114.17/a
Actual as % of appraisal estimate  33.10   51.70   99.80   95.60    95.90  n.a      n.a
Date of final disbursement                                                        12/31/97
JGF
Appraisal estimate                 0.40    1.00    1.35    1.70
Actual                             0.20    0.39   0.64    1.56    1.84    2.27/b
Actual as % of appraisal estimate  50.00   39.00   47.40   91.80  n.a.     n.a.
Date of final disbursement                                                        04/03/97
/a Final disbursement amount was slightly smaller than the appraisal amount due to fluctuations in the US dollar
to Special Drawing Rights rate.
/b Final disbursement amount was substantially larger than appraisal amount due to Japanese Yen appreciation
during implementation years from 1991 to 1996.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR            Estimated date of     Actual date of
completion           completion
Enterprise Modernization Component
Commercial credit subcomponent
Subproject commitments                      Dec 1992             Jun 1996
Subproject disbursements                    Jun 1995             Dec 1997
Precommercial credit subcomponent
Subproject commitments                      Dec 1992             Jun 1996
Subproject disbursements                    Jun 1994             Dec 1997
Spark Training Component
Contract signature for technical assistance     Dec 1990             Jan 1992
Arrival of contractor                           Jun 1991             Apr 1992
Implement technical assistance                  Jun 1994             Apr 1995
Training center construction
Ground breaking                             Jun 1991             Jun 1991
Physical completion                         Jun 1994             June 1996
Equipment procurement commences             Dec 1991              Jan 1992
Completion of equipment procurement         Jun 1994             Jun 1995
Spark training study
Team convenes                               Dec 1993              Jan 1994
Submission of draft report                  Jun 1994             Dec 1994



- 27 -
Key implementation indicators in SAR       Estimated date of    Actual date of
completion         completion
Technology Information Component
Contract signature for technical assistance  Dec 1990         Apr 1993
Arrival of advisor                         Jun 1991           May 1993
Assignment database/computer specialists   Dec 1991            Jul 1993
Assignment of training team                Dec 1991           Aug 1993
Equipment procurement commences            Dec 1990           May 1993
Completion of equipment procurement                            Jul 1994
Database construction                      Jun 1993            Jun 1994
ISTIC central data base                 Jun*1992           Jun 1994
Local information consultancy services
Staff training commences                Jun 1992           Aug 1993
Staff training completed                Jun 1993           Feb 1996
Institutional Development Component
MIS subcomponent
Contract signature                      Dec 1990           Apr 1992
Working group convenes                  Jun 1991           Jun 1992
Design phase commences                  Jun 1991           Jun 1992
Design phase completed                  Dec 1991           Dec 1992
System establishment commences          Dec 1991           Dec 1992
System establishment completed          Jun 1992           Jun 1993
System operations manual finalized      Dec 1992           Jun 1994
Operational phase commences             Dec 1992           Jun 1994
Technology evaluation subcomponent
Contract signature                      Dec 1990           Jul 1993
Course design commences                 Jun 1991           Jul 1993
Course 1 and 2 delivered                Dec 1991      Sep 1994 & Aug 1995
Manual finalized                        Jun 1992           Nov 1996
Financial intermediary training
Training commences                      Dec 1990           Aug 1992
Training completed                      Jun 1994            Jul 1993



- 28 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
The key indicators for project operations were in terms of (a) full utilization of training
facilities financed under the project, application of training programs and instructional
packages developed in the Spark training component, (b) commercial utilization of data
bases developed, frequent public and national broadcasting of the spark program and
commercial dissemination of information and manuals to be used by Spark program offices
throughout the country, (e) operations and financial performance of subprojects financed
under the line of credit, and (f) diffusion of technological and management knowledge of
the subprojects and all project components.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study               Purpose as defined at       Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Study on Long-Term    To assess the contributions made by   Completed   The study was completed as scheduled
Training Program    the project's training component and         in December 1993. As training
the priorities for firther short-tern and   component was delayed for more than
long-term improvement and                   a year, the study was revised in
development of Spark training.              December, 1994. Based on the training
component, the Study identified six
areas for further improvements which
guided Spark. training development
Between 1995-1997, SSTC arranged
1.323 classes for 76,160 trainees for
management personnel in the Spark
program nationwide. Some specific
impact include: (a) to support the Spark
Western Exploration Program by
offering triining to SPO management
personnel and entrepreneurs in the
interior provinces, (b) to provide
tining on evaluation methods and
ISO 9000 quality control management
for personnel in the Spark intensive
areas to help their development, and (c)
to provide computer network taining
for SPO staff nationwide to help
technical and information management
of the Spark program.



- 29 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS IN YUAN MILLION
Appraisal Estimate            Actual Cost
Component                       Local  Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign   Total
Enterprise Modernization
Commercial Credit               682.0  252.5    934.5    1,197.9    696.2   1,894.2
Precommercial Credit             23.1    8.5      31.6      82.4     31.8    114.2
Subtotal                     705.1  261.0    966.1    1,280.3    728.0  2,008.4
Spark Training Technology
Information and Institutional Strengthening
Civil Works                      17.5    2.4      19.9      29.6      4.0      33.6
Equipment/Fumiture               18.9   18.4    37.3        17.6     42.4      60.0
Technical Assistance/Training     3.8    8.0      11.8      11.1     18.2      29.4
Program Support                   5.2     -        5.2      14.7      0.0      14.7
Subtotal                      45.3   28.3      74.2       73.0     64.6    137.7
Total Base Cost               750.4   57.1  1,040.3    1,353.3    792.6  2,145.8
Physical & Price Contingencies    4.7   .3.3       8.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            755.1   60.4  1,0483    1,3533      792.6  2,145.8



- 30 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS IN US$ MILLION
Appraisal Estimate            Actual Cost
Component                        Local  Foreign  Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Enterprise Modernization
Commercial Credit                144.5    53.5   198.0      149.7      87.0    236.8
Precommercial Credit               4.9     1.8     6.7       10.3       4.0      14.3
Subtotal                      149.4    55.3   204.7      160.0      91.0     251.0
Spark Training Technology
Information and Institutional Strengthening
Civil Works                        3.7     0.5     4.2        3.7       0.5       4.2
Equipment/Furniture                4.0     3.9     7.9        2.2       5.3       7.5
Technical Assistance/Training      0.8     1.7    2.5         1.4       2.3       3.7
Program Support                    1.1     -       1.1        1.8       0.0       1.8
Subtotal                        9.6     6.0    15.7        9.1       8.1      17.2
Total Base Cost               159.0    61.4   220.4      169.2      99.1     268.3
Physical & Price Contingencies     1.0    0.7      1.7        0.0       0.0       0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            160.0    62.1   222.1      169.2      99.1     268.3
TABLE 8C: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate           Actual Financing
Component                        Local Foreign  Total       Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD/IDA                          53.9    60.4  114.3       17.4       96.8    114.2
Central Govenunent                 1.0     -      1.0        1.1        -        1.1
Provincial Government              8.3     -      8.3        8.3        -        8.4
Financial Intermediaries          35.4     -    35.4        82.6        -       82.7
Enterprises                       61.4     -    61.4        59.6        -       59.6
JGF                                -       1.7    1.7        0.0        2.3      2.3
Total Project Financing        160.0    62.1  222.1      169.2       99.1    268.2



-31 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The PFIs reevaluated financial and economic viability of nine subprojects after
subproject completion. Both EIRR1 and FIRR were required to be above 12 percent,
according to the project document. Based on a sample of nine subprojects, the ex-post EIRR
and FIRR were all lower than originally estimated due mainly to increasing input prices and
decreasing output prices.
Subprojects were selected for calculation of ex-post EIRR and FIRR based on the
following criteria: (a) a minimum of two subprojects from each of the PFIs; (b)
enterprises from different sectors and different cities of the three project areas; (c) an even
mix of successful and less successful subprojects; (d) half in repayment stage; and (e)
subprojects of different project sizes. The PFIs reevaluated financial and economic viability
of nine subprojects after subproject comapletion. The nine subprojects accounted for about
10 percent by number of commercial subprojects and 13 percent of the loan/credit amount
disbursed to the commercial subprojects.
FIRR (%)                      EIRR ()
Beneficiary                                   Ex-ante   Ex-post              Ex-ante   Ex-post
Jiangsu ABC
Liyang No. 1 Cable Factory                       18        31                  73         84
Taixing Glass Factory                           40          8                  67         24
Zhonggang Chemical Fiber Textile (Group) Co.    28          3                  19          1
Jiangsu CIB
Zhangjiagang Polyester Fiber Filament Factory   41         27                  30         27
Huajiang County Forging Equipment Factory       49         21                  43         29
Shanghai ABC
Shanghai Hezuo Textile Factory                  26         24                  33         31
Shanghai Dadong Chemical Fiber Company          23         21                  28         27
Jilin JPTIC
Siping Yinyuan Heat Exchanger Factory           42         23                  49         32
Baicheng #1 Plastic Factory2                     25        21                             22
l   EIRR was required for subloan amount of more than USS300,000 at subproject appraisal
2   Approved subloan amount was US$300,000, thus EIRR was not required at subproject appraisal even though actual
disbursement amounted to US$313,000.



- 32 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-            Original     Revised
Agree-                nant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
rnent     Section    type    Status    date         date              Description of Covenant             Comments
Credit    4.01           1       C      06/30/92                For parts B, C, and D.1 of the Project (1)
Annual audits, (2) SOE audit, (3) Audit of
special account, are to be sent to the Bank
Group before June 30 of every year.
4             13      C      12/31/93               SSTC to carry out a study of the long-term
development of Spark Program training under
agreed TOR (Annex 3) of the Summary of
Negotiations.
Loan      3.01           1       C      06/30/92               Audit reports of financial intermediaries and
project accounts parts A and D.2 of the Project
to be sent to the Bank Group before June 30 of
every year.
3.02          2       C       12/31/92              CIB's debtequity ratio notmore than 5:1. The
Bank Group revised this limit to 7:1 in June
1994.
Covenant Class:                                                                        Status:
I= Accounts/audits                    8 = Indigenous people                         C    = covenant compliedwith
2 = Financial performancetrevenue     9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting         CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1-9
funds                           11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart fumding                    budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency      12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resetdtement          13 = Other
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Group Operational
Manual Statement (OD or OPtBP)



- 33 -
TABLE 12: BANK GRoUP RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY               1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total
Peappraisal      24.2  147.8                                                                                  172.0
Appraisal                 13.4   40.9      .8                                                                  55.1
Negotiations                      1.2   46.9   12.1                                                            60.2
Supervision                                      24.6   18.8    8.0   12.3    4.4   16.0   10.7  6.9          101.7
Completion                                                                                            5.8/a     5.8
Total                                                                                                     394.8
/aEstimate.
TABLE 13: BANK GROUP RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Stage of project cycle    Montht  Number of    Days     Specialized      Imple-        Devel-     Type of problems
year     persons    in field     staff skills    mentation     opment
represented /a   status /b    objectives
Identification         9/87        7         30
Preparation
Preappraisal           3/88        9          25
Appraisal              6/88        4         26.      EC, FA, LC, 00
Negotiation            2/90        -          -
Board approval         12/90       -          -
Signing                1/91        -          -
Effective              6/91        -          -
Supervision I          1/91        3         20.         EC,00, FA          I             I
Supervision 2          10/91       1          15.           00              I             I
Supervision 3          11/92       1          10.           00              1             I
Supervision 4          5/93        3          14        EC, 00, FA          I             I
Supervision 5          11/93       1          14            00              2            2
Supervision 6 k        9/95        1          10            00              2            2
Supervision 7          6/97        3          23            00              2             2
Completion /d          4/98        2          2             00
/a EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer,
tb 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactoy.
/c Fron November 1993 to April 1998, the task manager was in China four times for more than five months each year. During each stay, the
task manager discussed detailed project implementation slatus with all project entities from each project area. This was more effective than
just one or two fomal supervisions a year. That was also the reason that even though there were only two fomnal supervision missions
between November 1993 and June 1997, the project progressed satisfactorily. In fact, most project activities (including all the TAs) were
completed during this period.
/d Not a full mission.



-34-                     APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, comprised of Helen Chan, Naiqin Lu and Amanda Hagy,
met with SSTC and all participating agencies for about 17 days between June 20 and
July 25, 1997 to review project status and initiate ICR preparation. The mission visited all
three project areas, accompanied by Mmes. Ouyang Xiaoguang and Tong Heifeng of the
Spark Program Office of SSTC and Mr. Yang Jun of ISTIC. A wrap-up meeting was held
with SSTC (attended by Messrs. Zhang Jingan, Director of Center of Rural Enterprises
and Wang Xiaofang, Director of Department of Rural Enterprises and the Spark Project
Office) and project entities from all project areas on July 25, attended also by Mr. Mo
Xiaolung, World Bank Department of MOF. Copies of the draft aide memoire were
distributed for discussion. Follow-up meetings were held on July 28 and August 7 to
confirm ICR requirements. The mission would like to extend its thanks to all project
agencies for the cooperation and warm hospitality. The following summarizes main
findings and recommendations of the mission, to be confirmed by a post-mission letter
from Bank management.
2.    The mission visited four subprojects, the Changchun training center, and the
Yanbien Science and Technology Information Research Institute in Jilin province; four
subprojects in Chongming; seven subprojects, Jiangyin training center and a pilot case
study in Jiangsu province. Factory visits insights are in Annex 3, 4 and 5. This is a
comprehensive supervision mission and it provides the mission and the accompanying
SSTC staff a deeper understanding and insights into project performance after six years
of implementation.
Project Status
3;    Except for a few small subconnponents, the project is basically completed. The
project will be closed at the end of September 1997. A small amount in the loan account
left unutilized and would not be needed any more, thus SSTC would request its
cancellation before the closing date. With the complexity of the technical assistance
components, the results thus far have demonstrated that they have been quite
successfully. Performances of subproejects which account for over 90 percent of the
project amount have been mixed. Nonetheless, all participating entities have put in a
sufficient amount of hard work to bring the project to completion and continuous efforts
would be needed in the future to fully realize its benefits.
Preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and Processing
Schedule
4.    At the end of each Bank project, the Bank, together with its counterpart agencies,
will prepare an ICR to summarize project results, identify implementation problems and



-35 -                      APPENDIX A
to gather lessons learned in the preparation and implementation of the project. The ICR
would consist of the following sections:
* evaluation summary, written by Bank staff;
* project implementation assessment, written by Bank staff;
* statistical tables, prepared by Bank staff with inputs from participating agencies;
* Annex A, Borrower's own write-up and evaluation of the project;
* Annex B, ICR mission aide memoire;
* Annex C, List of subprojects financed under the project; and
* Annex D, ABC, CIB and JPTIC's comparative (actual and projected) financial
statements for years ending December 31, 1991 to June 1997.
5.    The processing schedule is:
* September 30, 1997; SSTC submits Annex A to the Bank and all data relevant for
ICR preparation. The mission has discussed a set of 13 tables to be prepared by all
participating agencies;
* November/December 1997; ICR mission;
* January 1998, Bank sends complete ICR to MOF and SSTC for clearance; and
* March 1998, ICR goes to the Board of the Bank.
6.    From discussions and documentation prepared for the mission and for publicity of
the Spark project (such as the World Bank Spark project conference held in February
1997), we noted that coverage is not comprehensive to reflect fully results of some
subcomponents. Some of the subcomponents are very small, like the precommercial
subprojects, pilot case studies, instructional packages and some consultant services
development; yet they offer substantive insights to small rural industrial enterprises
development. Thus in the ICR preparation, all identifiable subcomponents should be
included and evaluated.
Accomplishments, Issues and Suggestions
Project Management and Implementation
7.    Project Implementation by National Agencies. Since the beginning of the
project, World Bank Spark program offices were set up at all agencies (national,
provincial, municipal, cities, county, local STCs, financial intermediaries, ISTIC and
local STICs,l etc.) and there are special units at SSTC to work on different technical
assistance (TA) components. In the past six years, the Spark Program Office of SSTC has
organized seven project implementation workshops with all participating agencies from
State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC), Science and Technology Commissions (STC) at lower levels,
Institute of Science and Technology Information Center (ISTIC) at the national level and Science and Technology
Infornation Centers ISTIC) at lower levels.



*- 36 -                     APPENDIX A
Beijing and from different cities and municipalities of the three project areas to
coordinate work among different provinces and agencies, discuss project progress,
identify issues and seek solutions. The last one was held in October 1996 concentrating
on repayment issues. With these workshops and close coordination among all agencies,
the project has been progressing satisfactory, particularly the technical assistance
components as they involve not only agencies at the national and provincial levels, but
many municipal and county level agencies.
8.    Manpower Requirements After Completion of the Bank Project. The Bank's
Spark project is closed to completion; yet there remain a lot of work to be continued by
SSTC and provincial STCs in the three project areas, such as:
*  applications and promotion of knowledge acquired and systems setup thus far on
management information system (MIS), technical information (TI), technology
evaluation (TE), consultant services, training and instructional packages;
*  loan repayment issues; and
*  utilization of second generation funds.
The Spark project still has a long way to go for all national agencies. SSTC and local
STCs will have to work closely with financial institutions to monitor subloan repayments.
Utilization of second generation funds should follow same project objectives and
selection criteria.
9.    Suggestions. Thus, it is important that the Spark project offices at the national
and provincial STCs to be retained for a few years to carry out these work. The Spark
project offices should be staffed adequately to meet the challenge of the work ahead.
Technical Assistance, Spark Training Component
10.   Among the various activities and subcomponents under this component, the
mission noted two subcomponents for further discussions.
11.   Training Centers. The Chongming training center is very well organized and
utilized. Training offered are relevant to rural enterprises. The objective of building the
auxiliary building for the Changchuin training center is for training and not for
dormitories. Thus we requested that its objective to be strictly retained. As for Jiangyin
training center, there are a few issues:
*  training offered in the training center are mainly language, basic computer
applications, accounting and hotel services. There are few training for TVEs in
project management, project risk analysis, marketing, etc. As our purpose of
supporting a training center in Jianigyin is for TVEs, we asked Jiangyin STC to pay
more attention to TVE training;
*  full utilization of the building should be the objective. The objectives of the new
auxiliary building are for training and to house different laboratories financed under
the project, such as the microcomputer/electronics laboratory, language laboratory,



-37 -                     APPENDIX A
instructional equipment and teaching material manufacturing & bookbinding
equipment. The new building had completed construction and started operations since
June 1996; yet over half are still vacant. Out of the five floors, three floors are
designated for instructors' offices. Some office spaces are rented for commercial
businesses. Only 1/5 of the floor space are now used for training purposes. Thus we
requested the original objectives be kept and the new building of the Jiangyin training
center be better utilized.
* Currently, all training are conducted at the original older building, constructed about
10 years ago and it is equipped with equipment financed by the Bank project. This
building is desperately in need of some basic maintenance, such as painting.
* It is amazed to learn that while the new building is still half vacant, another building
is under construction for the training center. The building under construction will be
used mainly for recreational purposes, canteen, etc. While it is not financed with Bank
fund, it raises the issue of better utilization of scarce capital resources.
12.   Instructional Packages. A  few  instructional packages, using multimedia
technology, were developed, such as the CNC machine tools and the HRD management
in Jiangsu, modified starch in Jilin, the DPC application in cotton production in Beijing
and the household electronic appliance in Chongming-all are very relevant for TVE
development, yet need to be applied and promoted. And these activities should be carried
out as soon as the instructional packages are completed and they should be relevant to
many provinces in China. If there are problems with any one instructional package, such
as the household electronic appliance, explanations should be provided in the ICR.
13.   Requests. For all instructional packages, the mission requested following
additional information:
*  total cost of production, including Bank fund;
 starting and completion dates;
* objectives of the instructional package (i.e. why this is necessary);
* final beneficiaries;
* basic contents of the packages (in couple of sentences);
* current applications, if any;
* what need to be done before the packages could be fully utilized by final
beneficiaries; and
* current plan of future application and promotion (with dates).
Technology Information (TI) Component
14.   Business and Technology Information is becoming increasingly important for
enterprises as markets are becoming very competitive. This is particularly important for
rural industrial enterprises to have easy access to reliable business and technical
information at a low cost. The business and technical information network that the project
helped established and the science and technology information institutes that the project
helped equipped would be very useful if they are properly maintained and fully utilized.



-38 -                    APPENDIX A
The mission visited Yanbien Science and Technology Information Research Institute in
Jilin and found its work very worth supporting. The Chongming Technology Information
Center had also provided many services to its clients. These institutes would need
continuous proper maintenance (computer hardware and software, network and staff
training) and management for them to provide useful business and technology
information services to rural industrial enterprises. There should also be more
communications and cooperation between STICs in different provinces and within
provinces to avoid duplication of work and waste of both capital and human resources on
technology and research work.
15.   Fee-Based Information Consultant Services. One objective of the TI
component is to develop fee-based local consulting services, directly responsive to TVEs
requests, for rural industrial enterprises throughout the SSTC/ISTIC system. The Spark
program office has paid special attention to its development. Local consultant services to
solve specific problems of rural enterprises were tested with a few case studies, one is
Chongming (technology issue) and one in Jiangsu (marketing and sales). Objective
evaluation and documentation of lessons learned would be very useful for future TVE
developments.
16.  Industrial Technical Evalualion (TE). Two manuals on technical evaluation,
one for trainers and one for trainees were completed by the end of 1996. The purpose of
these manuals is to provide SSTC and the Spark training centers tools to train and
upgrade STCs' staff nationwide. Their completion is a step closer to achieve that goal.
17.   Pilot Case Studies. Two case studies, one in Henan and one in Chongming, using
knowledge acquired through TE were applied to Spark intensive area and Spark small
district area. Both case studies were coimpleted in the past 12 months.
18.   Suggestions. The mission strongly suggested that SSTC to organize training as
soon as possible with the two TE manmaals to train lower-level STCs staff. The pilot case
studies would provide lessons learned in their applications in both Spark intensive area
and Spark small district area. Lessons learned from these pilot studies should also be
documented and would be very useful ifor future TVE development.
19.   Books Prepared. A  few  books relevant to rural industrial enterprises
development have recently been prepared under the Bank project that deserve more
attention. They are:
* Human Resources Development Management in Medium and Rural Enterprises
(developed with the HRD instructional package);
*  Guidelines for Consultant Services for TVEs in China;
* Technical Evaluation of Industrial Projects for TVEs, trainers' and trainees' manuals;
and
*  Technical appraisal of TVE in Spark Small Districts (developed with the Chongming
case studies).



- 39 -                   APPENDIX A
20.   Suggestions. After their completion, it is time for dissemination. Hopefully they
would be utilized throughout China, by rural industrial enterprises, by teaching institutes
(like Spark training centers and other colleges), and by STCs in their assistance to rural
enterprises. The mission suggested SSTC and local STCs put sufficient emphasis on their
immediate dissemination. Then sufficient resources would be needed in the near future
for revisions and upgrading.
21.   Management Information System (MIS). The MIS was developed a few years
ago for management of the national Spark program. Like the TI, it should be used,
revised and upgraded continuously; otherwise the system would be obsolete fairly
quickly. It should be used not only for Spark project applications, but also to track results,
i.e. financial and project performances after funds were utilized. Without these latter data,
the MIS would not be as useful for Spark program planning and for policy guidance for
SSTC as it supposes to be.
22.   In short, there are a lot of accomplishment with the TA components. Yet their real
success would depend very much on future efforts of SSTC to disseminate, promote and
apply whatever had been developed. IF these products were not utilized timely, their
usefulness would diminish very quickly.
Line of Credit
23.   Issues of Financial Institutions. This project is basically a line of credit
operations through financial institutions with special emphasis on the national Spark
program and rural industrial enterprises. Funds under the line of credit were fully
committed and over 90 percent disbursed. During factory visits and discussions with
ABC branches in particular, the impression that the mission got was that subproject
supervision, including monitoring of loan principal repayments, loan rescheduling, and
assisting enterprises in solving nonrepayment issues, seem to be secondary to project
preparation and evaluation. For example, loans are not rescheduled in spite of
nonrepayment of over a year. ABC staff that we met were not familiar with project status.
It translated into the fact that proper project management procedures are not in place that
allow smooth transition when responsibilities are transferred. Thus we felt that the four
financial intermediaries under the project have not performed satisfactory as financial
intermediaries (FIs):
(a) financial restructuring of banks in the past few years, e.g. the commercialization of
banks, ABC becoming three financial institutions instead of one, affected continuity;
(b) the chain of command and control within the Chinese system, i.e., ABC and CIB
branches report directly to their respective headquarters in Beijing, while the Spark
project is under the direct administration of the provincial government, even though
the line of credit is relent through provincial financial intermediaries. The
provincial/municipal governments bear the responsibility of loan repayment to the
Central Government, loan repayment to the Bank is not directly the responsibility
ABC and CIB branches. Thus, in case of subloan nonrepayment and defaults, ABC



-40 -                    APPENDIX A
and CIB branches could delay repayments to provincial governments which bear the
responsibility of loan repaymenats to the Central Government. With subloan
repayments starting in 1995 and 1996 and loan repayment on the Spark project
started in 1996, financial burdens on provincial government started to appear; and
(c) loan repayment concepts by enterprises still weak and inadequate legal enforcement
of loan nonrepayment indirectly encouraged enterprises' actions. Thus, triangular
debts are common. Even enterprises operating profitably and have ability to repay do
not repay. Funds are diverted for new project investment or for working capital
purposes.
24.   During subproject preparation and approvals, the FIs were actively involved; yet
as soon as funds are fully committed and disbursed, the FIs have taken a back seat. This
is particularly obvious with both ABCs in Jiangsu and Shanghai. Both ABC branches had
prepared nothing for the mission, did not accompany the mission during factory visits and
did not attempt to answer any questions raised by the mission, least to say, being totally
uncooperative. CIB has its own special problem of being restructured in 1995 and its
subbranches being closed. Thus it was not able to supervise its subprojects effectively.
Among the four FIs, the Jilin Trust and Investment Corporation appears to be most
concerned of its subprojects.
25.   The fact that ABC branches did not accompany mission factory visits had left
many questions unresolved. The mission received conflicting and controversial answers
to questions raised during Jiangsu factory visits, such as loan repayment terms (7 years
terms with 3 years grace instead of 3 to 5 years terms) and non principle repayment as
agreements between factories and ABC (factories said agreements reached vs. no
agreements stated by ABC). Should Jiangsu ABC staff were at the factory visits, these
would be clarified and the mission would have better understanding of the situation. This
understanding is also beneficial to SSTC, provincial and local STCs staff who
accompanied the mission on factory visits.
26.   Suggestions. The mission requested that SSTC and provincial authorities bring
these issues to the attention of ABC head office in Beijing and provincial ABC
presidents. This is a serious problem in the Spark project as ABC components in both
project areas amount to US$60 million, more than half of the project. Subproject
successes and failures in Jiangsu and Shanghai could affect evaluation of the entire
project performance.
27.   Willingness to Honor Legal Obligations by Borrowing Enterprises. It is so
obvious that new project development and civil construction take priority over principal
loans repayments. A few enterprises visited have modern offices with construction on
going, yet not repaying their current loans.
28.   Suggestions. Close supervision by financial institutions. Fl should include some
financial ratio requirements in future loan agreements with borrowing enterprises, and if
well managed, it may help. In the meantime, SSTC should, as early as possible, organize



-41-                        APPENDIX A
some training for borrowing enterprises of their legal obligations in the financial terms.
This type of training should be offered continuously and be reiterated in all management
courses for rural industrial enterprises.



-42 -                    APPENDIX A
ANNEX 1: AGREED ACTIONS
Agreed actions                                                Agreed dates
Submit draft ICR(borrower's section)                          Sep 30,1997
Jiangsu CIB: detailed write-up of demonstration and diffusion effects of Aug 20, 1997
subprojects. CIB should send information to Jiangsu STC no later than
August 15, 1997
Jiangsu and Shanghai ABC branches: detailed write-up of subproject Aug 20, 1997
performances, including project repayment status, demonstration and
diffusion effects of subprojects. ABC should send information to
Jiangsu STC no later than August 15, 1997.
Jiangyin Training Center: detailed write of dissemination effects of Aug 30, 1997
training that were carried in 1995.
All project entities: detailed write-up of project diffusion, dissemination  Sep 15, 1997
effects of all TA components and at the subproject level as well. SSTC
would organize this work



-43 -                    APPENDIX A
ANNEX 2: FACTORY VISITS IN JILIN PROVINCE
(JUNE 23-25, 1997)
B-21-JEDI Siping Hongzhui Maclhinery General Plant
Subloan of US$2.353 million, approved on April 25,1995
Status. Subproject construction was on schedule, production started at the end of 1995,
and full capacity reached in May 1997. Under the subproject, the advanced small
continuous steel casting and rolling technology and equipment (manufactured by
Shanghai Heavy Machinery Plant (SHMP) based on the imported know-how) were
procured. This technology and equiprnent, recommended by Ministry of Metallurgical
Industry for dissemination (an important element objective of the Spark program), have
the advantages of energy saving and high processing efficiency, with which the plant's
production cost is down, product quality and competitiveness improved. During
equipment installation and trial operation, SHMP and Bao Tou Steel Corporation
provided technical support and training. The plant has already manufactured four similar
equipment for its clients for promotion of the proven advanced technology and
equipment. With the subproject as the loundation, the plant has developed into one of the
50 largest enterprises in Jilin province, with sales of Y 80 million and net profit of Y 10
million in 1996. Its productivity is higher than most steel SOEs of the province and is
ranked as second. It is the largest export earner in Siping city. The plant has grown into
Hong Zhui Steel Group Company, having 10 subordinated factories and 1,650
employees, compared with 2 factories and 500 employees in 1994; thus contributing
substantially to local economic development. It has repaid Y 4.2 million of the subloan
and the subloan will be fully repaid by end of 1998.
Observations. The mission noted that there were heavy smoke generated from the
furnaces during production and asked about environmental protection measures. The
plant said that it has been paying penalties in not meeting basic environmental measures.
NEPA and provincial environmental agency knew about. However, domestic equipment,
such as dust collectors do not reached international standard and NEPA is fully aware of
the deficiency of those equipment. Consequently, dust collector and other equipment are
being ordered from Japan to treat waste dust emission and the equipment will be
delivered at the end of 1997.
Recommendations. The mission reiteraeted the importance of environmental controls and
asked the plant and the accompanying government officials to make sure that after
installation of the imported dust collector, it would be operated as specified by the
manufacturer. If the dust collector is not turned on (to save electricity), environmental
issues remain.
B-17-JEDI Dunhua Hua Kang Pharmaceutical Factory
Subloan of US$954,000, approved on July 20, 1994
Status. Subproject construction was on schedule and completed at the end of 1996.
Commercial operations also started in 1996. During implementation, the factory received



-44-                     APPENDIX A
useful support from relevant R & D institutes and universities to help establish GMP and
to ensure quality of its herb medicine which uses indigenous herb plants for specific heart
related decease. The factory received substantive technical support (an important element
of the Spark program) from different agencies:
* the new production workshops were designed and supervised by Wuhan
Pharmaceutical Design Institute, certified by State Pharmaceutical Administration to
ensure the required cleaning production conditions;
* the process technology was assisted by Provincial Pharmaceutical Research Institute;
and
* the prescription of the herb medicine was provided by Changchun Pharmaceutical
University.
Its market share has been increasing in the past year. The factory estimated that 65
percent of the installed production capacity could be reached in 1997, 90 percent in 1998,
and 100 percent in 1999. Its production value increased to Y 150 million in 1996 from
Y 100 million in 1994 and is expected to reach Y 200 million in 1997 and Y 300 million
at full capacity. The factory has diversified its products and used acquired technologies
(through this project) and managerial skills to form a group company with six factories,
covering medicine, biotechnology, pesticide, animal medicine etc. In addition,
implementation of this subproject has helped spur development of herb planting and
packaging materials and technology in the province. The factory has started to repay its
loan-Y 2 million in 1996, Y 3 million this year, and the rest will be repaid according to
schedule.
Observations and Recommendations. The factory is clean and appears well managed.
The mission cautioned that continual product development is important for the factory to
maintain and increase its market share; and quality improvement is crucial for its
competitiveness.
A-08-JEDI Korean Nationality Aluminum Product Factory
Subloan of US$2.5 million, approved on August 8, 1993
Status and Issues. Subproject implementation suffered serious delay due to poor
planning and availability of counterpart funds at the right time. Production could not
proceed because critical production equipment were not in place. While the new
workshop construction is almost fmiished, the mechanical unit of the aluminum rolling
machine (to produce aluminum film) has been installed, the imported electronic control
unit and the domestic cutting machines have been delivered; yet the hydraulic unit
(cooling system and fire extinguishing system of the rolling machine) have not been
delivered, and the electrical cables and the control panel of the rolling machines have not
even been ordered.
The delay has resulted in expensive overrun. According to factory estimates, another
Y 14.58 million would be needed to complete the subproject.



-45 -                   APPENDIX A
Reasons for Implementation Delay
Feasibility study was completed in 1992. Bank approved the subproject in August
1993 after substantial discussions. Contracts with the major supplier equipment in
China were signed in 1993. The contract requested a 30 percent down payment after
signing. Due to insufficient funds at that time, the factory paid only 10 percent as
down payment rather than the agreed 30 percent, thus rendering the contract
ineffective. The rapid price increases between 1992 to 1995, the equipment supplier
had increased the equipment prices substantially. In addition, this is a small contract
in comparison to contracts of large companies, plus the noncompliance of down
payment, so the equipment supplier had not given it much attention; and the
manufacturing process took much longer than the contract specified. However, the
factory had no legal ground to pursue as it did not honor its obligation first.
* The factory wanted to save import duties (imposed at the end of 1995); thus ordered
and imported equipment from England prior to when it could actually be installed and
utilized.
Realizing its problems, the factory has made the right move in recruiting a factory
manager from the Harbin Aluminum Product Factory, an advanced and very competitive
aluminum products producer, to manage the factory.
Observations. The factory, mainly due to its financial difficulties, has been merged into
Yangbian Aluminum Group Company in 1994. Its products, different widths of
aluminum foil sheets, were not competitive due to its low quality and were able to meet
market demand of wider widths. The subproject was supposed to introduce new
technology and equipment for the factory to improve its product quality and market share.
Yet due to prolonged delay in project implementation, project has substantial cost
overrun and in the meantime, market demand changed and much more competitors as
well.
Recommendations
*  The mission asked the factory to approach its sponsor, local banks and local
government for financing support. Sufficient fund would be needed to complete the
project without further delay. Considering the potential markets of the products and
conditions of new workshop and technology, the subproject could still be financially
viable, provided that funding for the financing gap and the subsequent working
capital needed would be available on a timely basis.
* JPTIC should reschedule loan repayment immediately based on current estimated
project cash flow.
*  The factory, together with JPTIC and Jilin STC, should analyze market more
realistically and review its strategies to see whether its products could meet market
demand, in view of the rapidly changing demand in aluminum products.



-46-                     APPENDIX A
Lessons Learned
*  The Bank should have been duly informed of the change in legal status of the
subproject entity. The Bank should also have been informed of its problems during
implementation so that the Bank could help addressing the problems.
*  Enterprise should honor all their legal obligations. Should the factory had paid the
supplier according to contractual requirements, cost overrun would be lower and its
equipment might have been manufactured according to schedule as stated in the
contract.
B-19-JEDI  YanJi Plastic Product Factory (Plastic Bottle for Mineral Water)
Subloan of US$721,000 million, approved on April 25, 1995
Status. Imported equipment was installed in April 1996 and trial production started in
May 1996. The imported equipment is relatively advanced-integrating plastic injection
with stretching and blowing. Equipment is working well and the bottles are attractive.
However, production and sale were limited in 1996 due to changing market demand. In
order to remain in business, the factory had no choice but to invest in a new mold in
1997. This has put additional financial burden on the factory, seriously affecting its
financial ability to repay. The subloan agreement was signed in June 1995 and principal
repayment should start in July 1996. However, as the factory was struggling to stay in
business in 1996 and the new mold has just started commercial operations in mid-1997,
the factory is suffering financial loss in the past two years.
Issues
*  Rapidly Changing Market. Based on project feasibility study which was completed
in early 1994, 1.5 liter (45 g) bottle was in demand, thus one set of mold for 1.5 liter
bottle was imported in 1996 at the cost of US$60,000. However in 1996, market
demand for smaller (23 g) bottles of mineral water is much more than larger bottles
(45 g). Starting in January 1997, the factory spent another Y 120,000 to work with
Dalian Polytechnical University to develop a mold for smaller bottles. After five
months of testing and adjustment, this new mold was put into operation in May 1997.
In June 1997, production volume has reached about 60 percent of the designed
capacity, and could further increase to 80 percent by the summer of 1997.
*  Stiff Competition. With the increase of disposal income in China, domestic demand
of bottling water increased substantially in the 1994 to 1997 period. Many bottling
companies had sprung up during this period; thus market potential for this factory is
not as promising as forecast in the subproject appraisal report. In 1997, there are 26
bottling factories in Yanji city for mineral water.
*  Low Profit Margins. Net profit is only Y 0.06 per bottle for small bottles. Higher for
the larger bottle, Y 0.54 per bottle, thus sale volume has to be very large to be
profitable. The factory has started to export its bottles to North Korea for bottling
mineral water and import the bottled water for sale in the domestic market. In so
doing, it will earn Y 1.9 per small bottle of mineral water rather than Y 0.6 per bottle.



-47 -                    APPENDIX A
Observations
*  Unless actions are taken as soon as possible to increase its share for both bottle sizes
and possibly venture into other businesses, it would be difficult for the factory to be
financially viable in the competitive market of bottling water.
*  Even though the factory was nolt able to repay since July 1996, JPTIC has not
rescheduled the loan nor work out any plan with the factory to solve the problem.
Thus JPTIC is to work with the factory to reschedule the loan immediately based on
its revised market strategy and project cash flow in the next few years.
Lessons Learned
*  Market forecast should consider possible new entrants into the market, rather than
assuming that market will remain status quo.
*  Production technology is relatively simple and is very easy for new entrants. Thus
investment in single product with simple technology should be studied very carefully
before investment. Diversifying its product base may be the only choice for long term
survival for this factory.



-48 -                    APPENDIX A
ANNEX 3: FACTORY VISITS IN CHONGMING ISLAND,
SHANGHAI (JULY 14-16, 1997)
A-07-SHA   Shanghai No. 1 Subsidiary Glove Plant
Subloan of US$212,000, approved on January 10, 1993
Status. Before this project, the plant produced rubber gloves soaked in PVC agent only
once. In this project, the process technology of soaking rubber gloves twice was jointly
developed with Shanghai No. 2 Glove Factory. This will improve glove quality and
competitiveness. Trial production started in 1993 and the demand has been strong,
especially along the coastal provinces. However, its products are mainly exported to
Japan. To meet demand, the plant is now producing around the clock in three shifts. The
plant prefers exports to domestic sales lto avoid problems of triangular debts. In 1996, the
plant formed a joint venture with a Japanese firm to fuither expand glove production. By
the end of 1966, the plant had fully repaid the subloan.
Observations and Suggestions
* The mission reminded the plant that pollution control should be closely monitored as
it uses a lot of chemical materials in its production, though there is no obvious sign of
pollution, like leakage and nontreated waste water running into nearly streams, in the
plant.
* This production process was developed with Shanghai #2 Glove Factory. The plant
understands that there is another factory in China producing similar rubber gloves. As
technology is very simple and could be easily developed, the mission suggested that
the plant to diversify its market base rather than relying solely on exports to Japan and
at the samne time, diversify its product base for its long term development.
B-03-SHA   Shanghai Baoli New-Style Packaging Material Factory (A-PET)
Subloan of US$2.367 million, approved on October 26, 1993
Status. The subproject is aimed to produce environmental friendly "A-PET" packaging
material to replace PVC which the E,uropean Union (EU) announced in 1989 that
European countries would not allow imports of food packaged in PVC containers in a few
years. During the testing and production of the new packaging materials, Shanghai Plastic
Packaging Corporation provided assistance in all aspects of production, technology and
marketing. The designed capacity of the subproject is 3,000 tons/year. Trial production
started in 1995. However, due to lack of government policies and regulations to ban use
of PVC, demand for A-PET packaging rnaterials is far from satisfactory; consequently, its
production is much lower appraisal estimates. The factory has been operating at a loss
since 1995. Currently, its products are maainly used as indirect export, such as packaging
for exported food and clothes etc. With. the price gap between PET and PVC narrowed
from a previous 2.5 times to about 50 percent higher now, the factory is expecting a better
financial future in the next few years. It plans to produce 1,000 tons of "A-PET"



- 49-                   APPENDIX A
packaging material in 1997, while the break even point is 50 percent installed production
capacity of 3,000 tons per year.
Observations and Suggestions
*  When the EU regulations came out in early 1989, seven (including this factory)
factories in seven different provinces rushed to set up similar A-PET packaging
material production lines simultaneously in China. Thus the factory would face stiff
competition even if the market as strong as predicted. All seven plants had completed
installation of equipment and trial production, however, market for A-PET packaging
materials has not been established in China yet, and the raw materials, PET, is much
more expensive than PVC. Thus some plants had stop production already. Except for
the Baoli plant, the other six plants are not independent legal factories and they
survive on activities in other workshops of the same enterprise.
*  Chinese regulations on food hygiene and sanitation and environmental protection,
thus far, have not catch up with international standards and markets yet. Thus it is
important that the Chinese Government to pass relevant food hygiene and sanitation
and environmental protection regulations to phase out PVC for food, pharmaceutical
and toy packaging first before A-PET packaging materials will take off in China.
* The mission suggested to local government officials to raise awareness of provincial
government and eventually to the national government of the EU regulations and the
world market. If China is going to join GATT and to export any food and
pharmaceutical products and toys, they will have to be packaged in non-PVC and
non-ODS packing materials.
*  Even though the factory is still projecting good market in the next two year, the
mission found it difficult to have optimistic financial projection for this factory. The
factory has been delinquent in its loan repayment, but ABC Shanghai had not pay
much attention to the problem yet. Shanghai ABC should work with the factory to
reschedule subloan repayment and Shanghai STC should provide any technical help
to the factory for its survival.
B-06-SHA   Shanghai Far East Refrigerator Factory
Subloan of US$650,000, approved on May 8, 1995
Status and Issues. The subproject is to finance non-CFC technology and equipment (two
vacuum forming machines, HFC 134a refrigerant filling equipment, foam machines etc.)
for the production of 100,000 sets of CFC-free refrigerators per year. Subproject
implementation was delayed due mainly to the change of production process caused by
the equipment supplier. The testing and adjustment of equipment will be finished by
September 1997 and trial production is expected to start in October. The factory will
break even if it reached 70 percent of the installed capacity.
In 1996, due to financial difficulties, the factory was acquired by Chongming County
Industry & Commerce Corporation, with the factory retained its name. Correspondingly,
Shanghai Shangling Refrigerator Corporation provided technical assistance and



-50 -                    APPENDIX A
eventually formed a joint venture with the factory in April 1997 on a 50:50 basis. With
the new joint venture, Shanghai Shangling has brought equipment, technology and
management skill to the factory.
Currently, the factory could not repay its loan, but should be able to start repayment two
years after commercial production.
Observations
*  Despite assistance from its joint-venture partner and its mother company, the factory
is currently not able to repay its loan. But with a new manager from its joint-venture
partner and its CFC-free refrigerators will bear the Shangling brand (a famous
refrigerator brand in China), the factory has a chance of turning around, but it could
take two years after commercial opetrations. Thus Shanghai ABC should start working
with the factory to reschedule the loan based on realistic forecast.
* This subproject has supported the CFC phaseout efforts in China which is in response
to a promotion by the National Council of Light Industries.
A-08-SHA   Chongming Subsidiary Plant (for Production of Bearings)
Subloan of US$1.39 mil]Lion, approved on January, 12, 1993
Status and Issues. Trial production had started in 1994, but until today, only 20 percent
of the designed capacity was reached. The plant is in deep financial difficulties since
1994. Its debts and daily operations are supported by the township Industry and Trade
Company (Jialong). The low capacity utilization was due basically to a mismatch of
capacity in different pieces of equipment in the production process. The plant produces
mainly low-valued small and medium bearings. It now explores the market of higher-
valued larger bearings and precision bearings.
Since 1996, technical experts from Halrbin were invited by Jialong to work as technical
supervisors in the plant. Other technical support, the plant hopes that the Harbin experts
would open the northeast market for them. The plant's financial situation has improved
slightly. Production value is expected to increase to Y 14 million in 1997 from Y 12
million in 1996, but the break-even production value is Y 18 million. The technical
experts from Harbin believe that the plant would not be able to repay the Bank loan in
another three years. The township government expects the plant to break-even next year,
but could only afford interest payments.
Observations
* The plant is in serious financial difficulties and in spite of technical assistance from
experts and its mother company, the mission had doubts on its long termn financial
viability. The top and immediate priority is not to put additional investment into the
plant as it had requested, but Shanghai STC, Jialong, Shanghai ABC and the plant
should review the plant's current production, its market perspectives, and its
competitiveness immediately. This i.s to be followed by a detailed financial analysis to



- 51 -                   APPENDIX A
see whether the plant could actually break-even in the next two without bringing
continuous financial burden to local government, to see whether it could bring any
value added to the local economy and to see whether it could ever repay its loan from
its production. Should this detail analysis showed that value added of the plant is
negative, an alternative (closing, changed production, if possible, joint venture if a
partner could be located) could be evaluated.
* In the meantime, the plant needs to rectify its unmatched manufacturing capacity and
to modify its production mix with higher priced products.
* There is a successful TVE producing bearings with similar technology under the
Spark project in the Jiangsu province. Thus the plant could consult this Jiangsu TVE
to learn their experience and explore other alternatives.



- 52 -                   APPENDIX A
ANNEX 4: FACTORIES VISITS IN JIANGSU PROVINCE (JULY
16-22, 1997)
A-02-CIBA Jianghai Capacitor Factory
Subloan of US$2.5 million, approved on December 4, 1991
Status and Its Sponsor. The subloan is to finance imported equipment for the
manufacturing of miniature aluminum electrolytic capacitor of medium and high voltage.
Commercial production started in 1995 and full production capacity has been reached.
The capacitor workshop has become one of the main workshops of the factory. With
continuous close cooperation with Xi'an JiaoTong University, Fudan University, and
universities in Jiangsu since 1991, a series of new products was developed. The factory
has now become the largest revenue earner in the past four years in the capacitor sector in
China, with Y 160 million earnings in 1996 and an estimated Y 220 million in 1997. The
factory has been profitable in the past 16 years. In the coming three years, the factory
expects a 20 percent annual growth in the capacitor production and revenues. Both its
domestic and international customers are mainly big companies with famous brand
products.
The factory has set up a joint production plant in Xiamen, to disseminate its technology,
marketing and management skills (knowledge dissemination-an important objective in
the national Spark program). In addition, the plant plans to set up a high voltage capacitor
plant in Mienyang city, Sichuan province, to help develop the local advanced capacitor
production (technology diffusion). As a strong TVE in Jiangsu, the plant has more access
to loans from different banks and its debt equity ratio is currently about 55 percent. The
plant has started its subloan repayment according to the set schedule. Workers' average
annual income is about Y 10,000, compared with Y 5,000 of local residents.
Comments. The factory is a strong collective, with many years' experience in capacitor
production, development and marketing. Its strong background helps ensure the
successful implementation of the subproject, while the subproject has also spurred fast
development of the factory in recent years.
Lessons Learned. Strong enterprise, in terms of management, vision and finances;
technical support from R&D in new production development; right environment, in terms
of locality, local support and manpower (sufficiently qualified, otherwise, relying solely
on the job training would make projectl vulnerable), sufficient counterpart funding at the
right time and realistic market analysis are basic elements to a successful project.
B-09-CIBA Rugao Glass Fiber Factory
Subloan of US$772,000, approved on February 8, 1993
Status and Issues. The subloan agreement was signed in May, 1993. The subloan is for
the financing of manufacturing equipment in reinforcing netlike fiberglass cloth for
grinding wheel. This product would fill the gap in domestic market. The products has



-53 -                    APPENDIX A
reached advanced international standards and has become one of the leading products of
the factory. Its sales reached Y 22 million in 1996, and its production volume amounted
to about 40 percent of total production volume of the factory. The netlike fiberglass cloth
is very well accepted in both domestic and overseas markets, the factory has become the
largest fiberglass cloth producer in the country.
The subproject has laid solid foundation for the development of other related products in
the factory and has helped product diversification of the factory. Since 1994, the factory
has set up six joint ventures and form a "Jiu Ding Group company." However, its
manager lacks the understanding of financial and legal obligations. Even though the
subproject has been successfully implemented and the factory is profitable, the factory is
not repaying the subloan; rather, the factory spent its available funds in expansion
projects and physical construction. The subloan should have been fully repaid by May
1997 based on the subloan agreement, but as of July 1997, US$250,000 remained
outstanding. The factory manager agreed that based on project activities, the factory
could afford to repay the outstanding balance, yet he cited a few reasons why the factory
would not repay the loan yet:
* The factory was financially exhausted because it was forced to absorb three bankrupt
enterprises with 800 workers. There were practically no production and no revenues
in these three enterprises, but the factory has to pay their salaries and pay all social
benefits. The factory also bear the responsibility of restructuring these enterprises and
steer them into production activities.
3  Before 1995, fund for loan repayment is from net profit before income tax. Now loan
repayment is to be paid from net profit after income tax. The income tax rate is 33
percent. This project was approved in 1993. This change of policy added financial
burden to the factory which was not in financial forecast when the project was
prepared.
* Substantial devaluation of the yuan from Y 5.8 to US$1 in 1994 to Y 8.7 to US$1 in
1995 also added additional financial burden to the borrowing enterprise.
Recommendations
*  CIB Jiangsu should work immediately with the factory to work out a repayment plan.
The factory is basically profitable, even it is burdened with social responsibilities and
expansion projects. So repayment is really not an issue here.
* SSTC and provincial STC should organize some management training emphasizing
on financial and legal obligations for TVEs managers, not only in project areas, but
nationwide. It is particularly important in the TVE-clustered provinces, such as
Jiangsu. This subproject has played an important role in the fast development of the
factory and the local economy; yet due to other obligations and understandings, the
factory is putting financial burden on ABC and the finance bureaus. Thus it is
important that TVE managers to be aware they should honor all legal and financial
obligations.



-54 -                    APPENDIX A
* Chemical materials are used in the production process, thus environment protection
should be closely monitored by local environmental protection bureaus.
Lessons Learned. In this case, it is very clear that market analysis is too optimistic and
the factory (plus the other six A-PET plants as well) are marching ahead of time without
due consideration of market realities. It takes time for markets to respond to most
international regulations in China and it takes time for China to promulgate new
regulation, particularly it involves more than one national agencies. Plus it takes time for
any new regulations to be truly effective. Technologies change rapidly as well, so it is not
advisable to invest ahead of what is really marketable in the near future.
B-04-ABCA Taixing Granule Metallurgical Plant
Subloan of US$685,000, approved on February 8, 1993
Status and Issues. The subloan financed the orbital cold forging equipment (OCFE) and
technology. The production of cold precision forging parts started at the end of 1994.
With this subproject as the foundation, the plant later has acquired four larger OCFEs,
post-processing machines, testing equipment and CNC machines with other financial
resources, to establish comprehensive and functional production lines.
In May, 1997, it formed a joint venture with Pacific Precision Forging Ltd., Co. Its cold
precision forging gear and related components, mainly used for automobile, motorcycles,
etc. and its products are very competitive in the domestic market.
As ABC staff were not present at the factory visit, it was unclear to the mission what was
the real situation on its loan repaymeni: and ABC staff could not offer good explanations
later at the Jiangsu provincial branch either. The factory claimed that it had repaid part of
the subloan already, yet when they wanted prepayment at the end of 1994 (a lump sum
repayment), ABC Jiangsu told them to repay in full in 1998 with one lump sum. In view
of that, the plant used the available fund for other investment; thus delinquent on loan
repayment based on original schedule. But no one could confirm, including ABC,
whether this is the accurate account and whether a revised repayment schedule had been
worked out.
Observations
* It is a very successful subproject. The factory appears to be very managed.
Implementation was on schedule, its products are marketable and the factory has
grown into a large corporation. As it is profitable, repayment capability is not an
issue. Yet it is delinquent on its loan repayment which ABC Jiangsu could not
confirm nor offer an explanation. Nor ABC Jiangsu has initiated any appropriate
action on collection. The mission felt that current ABC staff really do not know what
is the real situation. It is a serious institutional issue on the part of ABC. Over the
course of next few months and during the ICR mission, the project team will pursue
on many issues (including other subprojects) that were uncovered during this
supervision mission.



- 55 -                   APPENDIX A
SSTC, together with Jiangsu STC, should promptly organize some management
training for TVE managers to raise their understanding and awareness in the
importance of legal and financial obligations. Just like some other successful and
profitable enterprises in the Spark project, if the enterprises do not repay and if the
financial institutions are not keeping up with repayment issues either, then the entire
Spark loan repayment will fall on provincial bureau. And SSTC would be not able to
utilize the resolving fund that is supposed to be generated from loan repayment.
Impact of the Spark project would subsequently be reduced.
B-17-ABCA Taixing Glass Factory
Subloan of 1.138 million, approved on June 23, 1993
Status and Progress. The subloan is used to build an automatic wholly temperature
holding furnace and stretching machines to manufacture semifinished glass tubes for
pharmaceutical factories. With this furnace technology, the glass melting rate would
increase, production process would consume less energy, and at the same, product quality
would improve. After implementation of the subproject, the factory built a second furnace
to increase production based on increased demand. Now the semifinished glass tubes has
become one of the main products of the factory, and the factory has grown into a large
Dong Tai Group Company, a key enterprise in Taizhou county, with a wide spectrum of
glass products. Its subloan repayment is on schedule and the outstanding amount would
be repaid according to the subloan agreement.
The plant emphasizes on human resources and management. Many of its technical staff
are from technical colleges and universities. It offered a lot of training to its staff,
including overseas training, to learn respective technologies.
Observations
*  The factory has been specializing in the production of different glass products for
years and has technical skills and management. Its experiences helped the smooth
implementation of the subproject. In turn, the subproject has played important role for
further development of the factory.
*  The production pollution needs to be closely monitored.
B-15-ABCA Jinjiang Electric Power Machinery Factory
Subloan of US$2.414 million, approved on June 26, 1993
Status and Issues. The subloan financed the commercial production of carbon and low
alloy wear-resistance materials of transportation pipe for coal transportation. This
technology was jointly developed with the Bei Fang Jiao Da University. Commercial
production started in 1994 and its products have enjoyed market acceptance and good
market prospects. The factory has established long term cooperation with the University
and other related institutes to obtain the needed technical guidance. With the profits from
the subproject and other financial resources, the factory invested further to develop



-56 -                    APPENDIX A
comprehensive production lines and improve product quality. The factory has grown into
the leading enterprise in local area, with the special alloy material as the core business.
Yet, the factory has not paid adequate attention to pollution control and working
condition of its workshops. It has been paying pollution levies because it did not meet
local standards. There were heavy smoke from its chirnneys from the casting workshop.
The dust emission treatment facility fDr casting workshop had not been working since
1996, and no repairs have been made. The reason given was disagreements with the
manufacturers-i.e., the factory is trying to ask the manufacturer to repair for free. The
heat treatment workshop needs three dust filter facilities, in addition to the existing three,
for six furnaces. The factory has ordered the necessary dust filter facilities.
As to repayment, the factory will start principal repayment from August 1997, and the
loan will be fully repaid by the end of 1999.
Observations
*  The subproject has helped commercialization of the new materials and has played an
important role to stimulate development of the factory.
*  The pollution problem should be dealt with without delay. The Managers promised to
take actions to address the above mentioned pollution problems in two months.
Jiangsu STC and environmental protection bureaus should closely monitor the
progress.
A-07-CIBA Xishan Aluminum Group Corporation
Subloan of US$2.5 million, approved on June 20, 1996
Status and Issues. The subloan financed the manufacturing of high strength rare-earth
aluminum alloy special shaped material. Prior to this subproject, the Corporation
produced only the normal shaped alurminum materials for construction industry, but its
products were not in demand. With the subproject, the Corporation would like to produce
constructions materials to meet new rnarket requirements. The new products could be
used for textile machinery, aluminum structural parts of air freight containers, and
specially shaped heat radiators. Over the years, the Corporation has work with BaoTou
Rare Earth research institute to increase strength of the new material and has also seek
cooperation with end users for produicts development. Equipment procured with the
subloan was put into trial production in 1996. It is expected that utilization rate of the
installed capacity could reach 30 percent next year and 60 percent in following years. 60
percent is utilization rate to break even. During factory visit, the mission was informed
that part of the subloan was adjusted during implementation to procure other machines to
produce Aluminum wheel for cars and motorcycles for market diversification. According
to the subloan agreement, the principal repayment will start from June 1998 with a two
years payback period.



- 57 -                   APPENDIX A
Observations
*  The factory has made a lot of investment in the past five years. The construction
industry, its traditional market, has not growing as fast as before, and market for its
new products remains to be explored. Thus there are inherent risk that the subproject
may not be financially viable.
*  This subproject was appraised by CIB. However, due to CIB restructuring in 1996,
CIB was not willing to sign subloan agreement with the subborrower after Bank
approval of the subproject. Thus the subproject agreement was signed with the
provincial finance bureau (similar arrangements as the precommercial subprojects),
but with the CIB model subproject agreement. The Bank was not aware of this
arrangement until the factory visit. Bank's agreement should have sought before
subproject agreement was signed as this is not the agreed procedure.
B-03-CIBB Jinshi Group Corporation (a precommercial risk-sharing subproject)
Subloan of US$350,000, approved on March 5, 1996
Status and Progress. The subloan supported precommercial activities in the production
of L-Valine to be used by pharmaceutical factories. In 1993, Wuxi Jinhai Amino Acid
Ltd., a subsidiary of the Corporation, started production of L-isoleucine with support
from R&D institutes aimed to substitute imports. By 1997, its L-isoleucine production
has captured 80 percent of the domestic market. With the foundation of L-isoleucine,
Jinshi has further seek cooperation from universities and R&D institutes to develop
L-Valine production technology, also for import substitution. The precommercial
activities included: (i) to optimize fermentation through microcomputer control, (ii) to
develop new extraction refining technology to raise the extraction rate, and (iii) to test
acceptance of domestic users with pilot production. These activities had reduced the risks
for mass production of L-Valine with the new process technology. The Corporation
believed that the precommercial production are successful and is ready for commercial
operation. Equipment for commercial production are being adjusted and will put into
operation in Septernber.
Lessons Learned
*  The risk sharing venture is successful because the sponsor has prior experience in
similar type of production. Even it has its own technical expertise, it is also relying on
R&D institutes to provide basic research. For this new venture, it has recruited a
national reputed professor to be in charge of the fermentation experiment.
*  This is a large corporation and appears to be well managed. It has the capacity of
venturing into new technology without the assurance that it could be commercial
applicable.
* Management has the right perspective. It is ready to repay the loan when due and is
very appreciative of what Jiangsu has offered through the precommercial credit.
*  The mission was told that some precommercial activities are not successful because
project sponsor are not strong technically, management is weak and market has not
been studied carefully.



- 58 -                  APPENDIX A
ANNEX 5: CASES OF SUBPROJECT DIFFUSION
A-02-CIBA Jianghai Capacitor Factory
Jianghai Capacitor Factory, a large electrolytic capacitor manufacturer in China,
had utilized the US$2,500,000 loan from the World Bank to produce a small-size high
voltage aluminum electrolytic capacitor using advanced technologies.
The equipment installation was completed in February 1995. After a successful
trial period, the new capacitor production reached its designed capacity by the end of
1995. The capacitors are now supplied to major television manufactures in China, such as
Changhong and Kangjia, and are also exported to the European and American markets.
At the same time, Jianghai is exploring the possibility of supplying capacitors to
manufacturers of energy-saving lights.
Using technologies learned in this project, the factory is building another large
aluminum electrolytic capacitor plant in Mianyang, Sichuan province. The new plant will
cover the entire southwestern market for Jianghai.
The profitability of this production line is much higher after the completion of the
project due to the proper selection of market and production processes. In addition,
Jianghai has gained experience in long termn planning, development of new products, and
negotiations of technology transfer contracts. More importantly, Jianghai has been
sharing its experience with other TVEs in all its dissemination activities.
B-11-CIBA  Jintan Cloisonn6 Enamel Processing Factory
Under the project, the factory imported an electroplating line to improve its
production capacity and product quality.
The project was completed in 1995. It has made Jintan the leading industrial
enterprise in local cloisonne production. Jintan Cloisonne has helped transforming a
group of small arts and crafts plants in Jintan from low-tech, inefficient, high-pollution
plants to more efficient and environmentally friendly ones. It has also taught these TVEs
how to design products and tailor produiction plans according to market demand.
The success of the Jintan Cloisonne project has had a very positive influence on
the local economy and employment. TIhe following are beneficiaries of Jintan Cloisonne's
dissemination of technological, marketing, and managerial knowledge.
1. Jintan Enamel Arts & Crafts Plant
2. Jintan Baochang Arts & Crafts Plant
3. Baita Metal Arts & Crafts Plant
4. Jintan Education Arts & Crafts Plant



- 59-                   APPENDIX A
A-02-SHA   Shanghai Guanghui Automatic Instrument Factory
After the implementation of the Spark project, Shanghai Guanghui Automation
Instrument Factory (SGAIF) is able to manufacture small size pneumatic self-regulating
valves with improved quality control and management. The technical support comes from
Shanghai Automation Instrument Research Institute (SAIRI), one of the best in
automation instrument research.
SAIRI had helped to strengthen SGAIF's product design, quality control, and
utilization of information. Together they have shared their knowledge of product design,
process conditions, quality control, and technical management procedures with their
subcontractors who supply mechanical and electrical parts. SGAIF sent engineers and
managers to their suppliers to give on-site support. These measures have helped improve
the technical capacity and quality standards of SGAIF's suppliers. The total sales from
the 12 technology dissemination recipients in 1997 was Y 29 million.
The following shows the names and products of the 12 technology dissemination
beneficiaries.
Name of Enterprise                          Product
Technology Dissemination Recipient:
1. Chongming Jibing Pneumatic Parts Factory  Pneumatic Membrane
2. Huming Mechanical and Electrical Parts Factory   Electrical Parts
3. Shanghai Instrument Machinery Plant      Electrical Parts
4. Shanghai Instrument United Corporation   Electrical Parts
Technical Cooperation Recipient:
1. Chongming Hezuo Casting Plant            Aluminum, Iron casting
2. Yonghua Mechanical Parts Plant           Aluminum casting
3. Haimen Automation Instrument Factory     Iron casting
4. Qidong Special Alloy Plant               Steel, Iron casting
5. Wuxi Dingcun Casting Factory             Iron casting
6. Qidong Yinyang Casting Faotory           Iron casting
7. Li He Machinery Plant                    Mechanical parts
8. Huixing Mechanical and Electrical Plant  Mechanical parts
A-07-SHA   Shanghai No. 1 Subsidiary Glove Factory
Under the project the factory updated its PVC glove technology as well as its
production methods. Testing and inspection from an independent institute have shown
that both the quality and the technical specifications of the gloves produced by the new
production line have reached international standards.



-'60 -                   APPENDIX A
Currently, Shanghai No. 1 produces PVC gloves three shifts a day because of high
market demand. These gloves are popular in the chemical, electroplating, machinery
manufacturing, construction, and fishing industries.
The results of the project were recognized by the plant's Japanese partner. A joint
venture was established in 1996, and the production of gloves was further expanded.
Furthermore, gloves from the plant have been included in the "Shanghai New Products
Program." 97 percent of the products are exported to Japan, the United States, and
Canada. Demand is still increasing due to the growing economy and increased
enforcement of safety regulations. The: 1997 mission advised the factory to expand its
product base for long-term sustainability.
B-05-SHA   Shanghai Yi Er Bao Lactic Acid Products Factory
Through this project, Shanghai Yi Er Bao Lactic Acid Factory (Shanghai Lactic
Acid) has built a lactic acid production line with an annual capacity of 1,500 tons. The
technology was supplied by Shanghai Industrial Microbiology Research Institute
(SIMRI).
Lactic acid is an important chemical used in the food, pharmaceutical, and
chemical industries. Research and development of lactic acid production is one of the key
programs included in China's eighth "Five Year Plan." China had been importing
industrial lactic acid before the start up of the production line in the factory. SIMRI's
success in this program has enabled Clhina to have its own lactic acid production. It has
also initiated more R & D into applications of advance microbiological technologies in
"downstream" industries as food, pharmaceutical, and chemical production in both the
Spark Intensive Area (Qian Wen Village) where the project is located, and in the
Shanghai area.
The production of lactic acid in Shanghai started in 1996. Currently, both
production and quality are stable. A Dutch company has signed a letter of intent for a
possible joint venture with Shanghai Lactic Acid after several site studies. This project
should further develop the applications of lactic acid.
B-17 JEDI Dunhua Hua Kang Pharmaceutical Factory
Through the project, Hua Kang has improved its production line to produce
traditional Chinese medicines for heart disease. Proper design of the medicine and more
accurate market forecasts have made product sales very good. Sales in 1997 totaled Y 200
million, 200 times more than in 1993.
The medicine is well recognized in China because of its effectiveness in treating
heart problems and its quality. This effectiveness and quality was made possible by the
utilization of advanced pharmaceulical technologies and scientific management
techniques that Hua Kang has gained through this project.



-61 -                   APPENDIX A
The development of the factory also has had a positive influence on the local
economy. The sales of the printing, pulp and paper, raw materials, glass, packaging,
advertising, food, and tourism industries increased Y 40 million in 1997.
B-21-JEDI Siping Hongzui Machinery General Plant
Siping Hongzui is one of the largest TVEs in China. It imported advanced
technologies and equipment for rolling and casting from the United States in 1995. The
total investment is Y 110 million, including Y 21.2 million from the World Bank.
Production reached full capacity in May 1997. Hongzui has repaid Y 4.19 million to the
Bank so far.
The rolling and casting machines that Siping Hongzui is manufacturing are the
most advanced in China. Siping Hongzui has disseminated this technology successfully
to its customers. It helped Jiangxi Suichang Steel General Plant design and manufacture
four rolling and casting machines. Sales in 1996 totaled Y 16 million. Profit before tax
was Y 5 million.



- 62-                    APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
BACKGROUND
1.   In China in middle 1980, the Spark Program for invigoration of rural economy
relying on science and technology had supported the development of township and
village enterprises, promoted the rural economy, and achieved remarkable successes; and
thus enjoyed universal recognition and great popularity among the people. With the
development of economic refornation, township and village enterprises have become one
of the important constituents of national economy and an momentous force promoting the
steady progress of market-oriented economy of China.
2.    The progressive establishment of market-oriented economy faces severe
challenges from strategic change of a rapidly growing economy into a profit-making one
as well as from an extensive economy into an intensive one. The continuation of the
reform and open policies call for the further development of the Spark Program in order
to assist the steady, fast and healthy growth of the township and village enterprises.
3.    The Spark Program will find a vast space for its further development by
utilization of foreign capital. The State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) has
timely formulated the strategy for further expansion of the Spark Program using the loans
from the World Bank.
4.    At the same time, the Spark Program and its far-reaching influence on the
progress in the developing countries had won the attention of the World Bank.
Consequently, four delegations dispatched by the World Bank had investigated and
evaluated the Program, and concluded with a appraisal report in 1989.
5.    Owing to the joint efforts of the SSTC, the State Planning Commission, Ministry
of Finance, and the World Bank, a agreement of utilization of the loan from the World
Bank for the Spark Program duly came into effect on June 14, 1991.
6.    Three areas selected for the trial run of the Program were Jiangsu Province, Jilin
Province and Chongming County in Shanghai. For these three areas, two in the south and
one in the north of China, each has its own representative feature. Jiangsu Province lies in
a coastal area of relatively highly developed economy, where China township and village
enterprises grow rapidly and vigorously in terms of quantity, scale, technology as well as
managerial levels. Actually, the southern part of Jiangsu is the birthplace of China
township and village enterprises. Jilin Province is one of the important bases of the
national fundamental and processing industries in addition to a principal cereal-producing
area. However, its rural industry lags clue to the late starting up of township and village
enterprises. Accordingly, the advantages of resources there have not been sufficiently



-63 -                   APPENDIX B
made use of. Chongming county is an alluvial island in the mouth of Yangtze River with
potential of being in economically superior position, but its development had been
hindered by the lack of transportation facilities. The purpose of selection of these three
areas for the trial implementation of the Spark Program using the loan from World Bank
is to enhance the demonstration effect as much as possible.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The objectives of this Project is to explore ways of and acquire experience in
utilization of international capitals, to open up more sources of funds for the Program,
and to promote the matching up of the practice and market of the Program to those
prevailing internationally by means of introduction of loan from the World Bank.
Moreover, it is to make demonstrations in the three areas representing different
characteristic conditions to support the steady growth of industry and the upgrading of
technology so as to improve the efficiency, product quality as well as the environment in
rural industry. Furthermore, as the key point, it is to adjust the rural economic structure,
to improve the township enterprises, and to realize the rural modernization. Even more
important, it is to acquire advanced experience through organization of the
implementation of the Program using the loan from the World Bank to secure highly
evolved management so as to construct for the Program a model of management meeting
the new economic situation as well as the standard market oriented economy, and,
moreover, to train staff to serve competently the further development of the Program.
8.    For this purpose, World Bank provided a total amount of loan equivalent to
US$114.3 million, 90 percent of which was used to support the development of
subprojects of township and village enterprises, and other 10 percent interest-free soft
loan was used to support the technology for upgrading of management, including
establishment of training demonstration bases, technical information system, and the
training of staff in technological appraisal and its methodology.
9.    The disbursement of the loan comprised US$65 million to Jiangsu Province,
US$25 million to Jilin Province, and US$20 million to Chongming County of Shanghai
municipality. In addition, 243 million Japanese yen from Japanese Government Grant
support Technical Assistance Components implementation at state level.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
10.   The objectives of the Project itself constitute the important parts of the contents,
which may be divided into four subprograms of A, B, C and D as follows:
(a) Subcomponent A is an industrialization one consisting of two components of:
(i) Commercial subprojects, which supported the township and village
enterprises (plus limited number of collective enterprises affiliated to a
county) to undertake technologically matured commercial subprojects.



-64 -                    APPENDIX B
(ii) Precommercial subprojects, which supported the technologically developing
products  or  processes  in  Jiangsu  Province  before  their  full
commercialization.
(b) Subcomponents B, C and D are technical assistance.
11.   The subcomponent B is Spark training, which consist of training and technical
assistance. It is, through the training of managerial and technological staff and the
providing of the equipment as well as information consultation, to create advantageous
conditions for the improvement of the capacity of training, and also for upgrading the
managerial and training techniques. It is emphasized on the establishment of four key
Spark training bases located in Nanjing, Changchun, Jiangyin and Chongming in order to
make them models of high grade training base in respective areas from a start point of
high level. Also, a report on the demand for training of the Spark Program is to be
prepared for this subcomponent.
12.   The subcomponent C is a technology information system, which is oriented to
strengthening of the Institute of Scientific and Technological Information of China
(ISTIC) and information institutes of subproject area level. It is to be provided with
technical support, training and equipment in order to develop new databases, computers
and other information systems as well as establishment of networks in the subprojects
areas. This is a system of information and consultation service, which containing all
aspects of scientific and technological achievements, products, processes, marketing,
management well as sales, while focusing on township and village enterprises.
13.   The subcomponent D is establishment of organizations, which falls into two parts:
(a) The establishment of Spark plan management systems at state and provincial levels
would supply accurate, timely and full information on the establishment,
implementation, finance and achievements of the Spark subprojects to all the
managerial staff in Spark Program of different levels.
(b) The training of technical appraisal consists of preparation of a manual of standard
methods for the appraisal and management of potential projects related to the Spark
Program . It will introduce a programmed and standardized model of procedure for
the management of spark plans. M[eanwhile, it also includes the training of the staff
of relending in financial departments to carry out the management of commercial
bank, appraisal of subprojects, and management in general.
Japanese Grant Facility
14.   Besides the subcomponents A, B, and C mentioned above, there is some extra
fund accrued due to the appreciation of Japanese yen. Based on this fund, it was also
planned to accomplish 7 new subprojects of further development of consultation services,
demonstration of consultation, appraisal of Spark Program, and three case studies of the



-65 -                    APPENDIX B
areas of high density of Spark subprojects and manufacture of multimedia teaching
package.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Organization and Management
15.   The implementation of the Spark Subcomponent is a systematic engineering of
many layers, multiple disciplines, involving various industries and different
administrative agencies. It is a kind of highly comprehensive economic task, which was
participated by various Chinese departments of ministry level, including SSTC, the State
Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, financial entities, and audit bodies,
which, predominantly SSTC, Ministry of Finance, and financial intermediaries undertook
all the tasks of selection, approval, implementation, management and supervision of the
subprojects. In order to strengthen the leadership and administration of the
Subcomponent, a leading group and Spark Program office (SPO) were established in
SSTC, and corresponding leading groups and SPOs were set up in Jiangsu province, Jilin
province and Shanghai municipality, too.
16.   The Spark subprojects were implemented enthusiastically by concerted efforts of
all relevant participants led by Scientific and Technological Commissions (STC) of
different levels.
17.   STCs of different levels were the main driving force in the implementation of the
Subcomponent, which, in conformity with the goal of Spark Subcomponent, were in
charge of the organization and coordination of the planning, selection, approval,
supervision, inspection, check and acceptance of subprojects. They were responsible for
maintaining of high content of science and technology in the subprojects by means of
guidance, coordination and provision of service for all the participants.
18.   Financial organizations were the principal body of financial management that
were responsible for the drawing and onlending of the loans; management of the special
appropriation accounts; disbursement and complementation; verification of debts;
supervision of subprojects finance; and timely payment of principles, interests and fees to
authorities of different levels;
19.   The financial intermediaries were the main body of projects implementation. They
assessed independently and examined strictly the eligibility of the subprojects submitted
by enterprises, and were accountable for the granting recovery of the World Bank loan as
well as for the timely collection of commitment fee, interests and principles from
enterprises. They were also responsible for payments of principal, interest, fee, and a
certain proportion of capital for mating projects.
20.   During the practical implementation, the whole process of the projects were
guided, administrated, supervised, coordinated and served. Regulations, clear-cut
sectionalization of work, and methods of operation were formulated. For examples, there



- 66 -                   APPENDIX B
were definite and sectionalized standards of selection of enterprises and subprojects, as
well as strict examination of the establishment and appraisal of the subprojects. Both the
analysis of projects before their finalization, and the supervision in the stage of
implementation and appraisal of the completion of the projects were emphasized. An
efficient operation mechanism was established, too.
Implementation of Industrial Subprojects
Selection of Subprojects
21.  In the three areas, altogether 108 industrial subprojects were approved by the
World Bank. Among them, 63 are located in Jiangsu province (47 commercial and 16
precommercial subprojects), 29 in Jilin province, and 16 in Chongming county in
Shanghai All these subprojects were selected from hundreds candidates involving various
sectors of materials, electronics, machinery, textile, light industries, etc. 83 subprojects
were undertaken by township and village enterprises and accounted for 77 percent of the
total; 25 subprojects by collective eniterprises of county level and accounted for 23
percent. Of the 108 enterprises, 22 were newly established and 86 reformed
technologically of originally existing ones. (Table 6)
Appraisal
22.   The financial intermediaries, namely, Jiangsu Agricultural Bank, China
Investment Bank, Shanghai Agricultural Bank and Jilin Province Trust and Investment
Co., were responsible for the appraisal of all the industrial subprojects.
23.   The applied eligibility criteria of appraisal were The Standards of Qualification of
Investing Enterprises and The Standards of Qualification of Invested Projects stipulated
in Projects Agreement and The Terms and Conditions of Loaning to Subprograms
stipulated in Onlending Agreement.
Disbursement
24.   From the first drawing in October of 1991 to the last one in September of 1997,
the World Bank actually had paid US$102 million (Table 1).
Design, Tender and Purchase
25.   Under the guidance and supervision of local financial agencies and STCs, the
subprojects enterprises called for tenders for the purchase of equipment and civil
construction in confonnity with the requirements of the subproject design. The purchase
was carried out on principle of "Compare vendor offers before buying." The procedure of
design, tender and purchase had ensured the quality of the equipment, reasonableness of
price, and time of delivery.



-67 -                    APPENDIX B
Investment
26.   Based on the appraisal report of subprojects, the total amount of the planned
investment of the 108 subprojects was Y 2.08 billion, in which 48 percent came from the
World Bank and 52 percent from domestic companions of financial relending agencies
(Table 2A) . The total amount of actual investment of Y 2.15 billion, in which 47 percent
was from the World Bank, and the rest was mainly from domestic companions of
financial relending agencies, other banks, and enterprises themselves (Table 2) had
substantially supported the early start of the projects.
Results
27.   As of today, all the 108 subprojects had committed and been in good order. The
total amount of fund drawn from the World Bank was US$105 million, in which
US$3.968 million was spent by 16 precommercial subprojects. 89 subprojects had been
put into operation and accounted for 82 percent of the total hard loani; 61 subprojects had
been completed and accepted at a completeness rate of 51.2 percent; 11 subprojects were
under construction; and 8 subprojects had not been completed on schedule.
(a) From the view of the implementation of industrial subprojects, the subprojects
developed were not in balance and may be classified into following three categories:
The first category is good subprojects, which account for 38 percent of the total
subprojects. These kind of project had reached the production capacity of the design,
operated in a higher managerial level on the whole (including production, finance,
sales, and personnel), held well-opened selling channels, maintained promising
market of their products, had strong solvency, and well operated. Such as: Jilin
Huakang Pharmacy, Shanghai Chongming Polypropylene High Tenacity Fibers
Plant, Jiangsu Taixing Glass Ware Factory, etc.
The second category is common subprojects, which accounted for 39 percent of the
total. These subprojects were operated well in all internal aspects of their own;
however, owing to cost increasing resulted from the drastically going up of prices of
the raw materials, their marketing momentum gradually weakened, their account
receivable and payable increased, their circulating fund decreased immensely due to
the policy of tightening credit; their regular operation was unable to maintain
because of lacking of timely complement of capital; hence, at present time, these
enterprises were in an unsatisfactory situation of just making even or making not
much profit. The development of all these potential enterprises was constrained by
various factors. Once these constraints are released, their productivity and profits
will increase enormously. Examples of this category are: Jilin Gongzhuling
Automobile Decoration Materials Plant, Shanghai Chongming PET Sheets Plant,
and Jiangsu Changzhou Synthetic Fibers Plant No. 2, etc.
The third category is the subprojects with difficulties, which accounted for 23
percent of the total. Owing to the failure of passing on of the capital for mating



-68 -                    APPENDIX B
components, prolongation of the construction duration, change of market, product
problems, poor management of enterprises, suffering from natural calamities,
technology and equipment being too advanced to operate, products being too
advanced to meet the demand, poor technology, lack of competent technical workers,
.... and others, these subprojects were unable to operate well; and, therefore, it led to
their profit decreasing, being unable to reach the desired benefit, increasing burden,
suffering loss, and even stop or being close to stop of operation.
(b) All the 10 precommercial subprojects in the first phase of implementation had been
completed, and other 6 subprojects had been approved by the World Bank in early
1996 and were proceeding well umder implementation. In view of the situation of
implementation, all the subprojects basically were successful. It is anticipated that
about 50 percent of the subprojects would become commercial subprojects. The
precommercial subprojects belonged to development activities of higher technology.
Based on the survey and analysis, most of the technological introduction were those
having passed the tests of laboratory experiments and small scale pilot production,
accounting for 60 percent; those having passed the examinations of medium scale
pilot plant production or large scale plant production, accounting for 40 percent.
From the point of view of technology, 40 percent of the precommercial subprojects
had not much development activil:ies in science and technology, and, hence, there is
a certain distance from what was required by the World Bank.
(c) Thanks to the demanding regulations of examination for environmental reports,
satisfactory achievements with respect to the environment had been made. There is
no problem of environmental po]llution with all the subprojects of Spark Program
supported by the World Bank.
Profits
28.   Between 1992 and 1996, the 79 subprojects in operation created profits plus tax
amounting to Y 236 million, in which Y 129 million came from Jiangsu, Y 97 million
from Jilin, and Y 10 million from Shanghai. 13,600 employment of rural labors were
made through the implementation of these subprojects.
Repayment of Capital with Interest
29.   By the end of December 1996, the sum of accrued interest was US$14.38 million,
of which US$4.91 million or 34.1 percent had been repaid (Table 4); the Up to end June
of 1997, sum of accumulated principle: was US$61.67 million, of which US$14.7 million
had been extended and US$22.49 million had been repaid. Some of the subprojects were
put into operation and brought profits late because of their delayed investment. Others
had been poorly operated with the problems of lack of legal sense. Therefore, it is
difficult for them to repay fully the capital with interest at the present time. The financial
relending agencies were making efforts to collect the loans, and for some of the projects,
the terms of contracts had been extended based on their concrete conditions (Table 5).



- 69-                    APPENDIX B
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
30.   The training and technical assistance of Spark Project are unique.
31.   Big Sum. The whole technical assistance used US$9.50 million or accounted for
about 1/10 of the total loan from the World Bank.
32.   Complicated Content of Projects. It included the training, technical information,
managerial information and subproject appraisal for the three big constituents of the first
design. In the expenditures, it included also building construction, equipment purchasing,
consultation and training. Lately, it elaborately planned 7 new subprojects, in accordance
with the targets designed originally, utilizing the US$0.60 million accrued from the
appreciation of Japanese yen. Altogether, 15 agreements of technical assistance and
consultation were signed (Table 14).
33.  Involving All Aspects. The objective of the training and technical assistance of
Spark Project was to upgrade the overall managerial level, and thus all aspects of the
Project were involved in.
-  Broad Range of Technical Disciplines. Including techniques of training, computer
information, financial appraisal, systematic engineering, consultation, management,
etc.
*  Participants from Widespread Sectors. Including 15 consultation firms of bid
winners for subproject implementation, about dozen of departments from SSTC,
trainees from Jiangsu, Jilin, Shanghai and managerial and relevant people of Spark
Program from other 30 provinces and municipalities. The total numbers of them were
about 75 organizations and 850 people.
* Long Duration. The duration of the activities for training and technical assistance
was about 5 years from 1992 to the end of December of 1996.
34.   Fruitfulness. The extensive activities of training and technical assistance were
elaborately organized and earnestly implemented by SSTC, and were fully and
successfully completed in accordance with the agreements. The achievements were
universally recognized by people. 54 training courses were given and 2,100 person-time
were trained (Table 10 and 11), 4 modem training bases were established (Nanjing,
Jiangyin, Chongming, and Changchun), modem equipment of a value of about US$5.53
million was installed in the training bases for the information institutes and managerial
agencies related to the Spark Program (Table 13). These training bases had become the
key or demonstration ones of the Spark Program in the state or provinces. The
information institutes at all levels of state, province, municipality, and county had
enthusiastically provided the township and village enterprises as well as governments of
different levels with information in the form of computers, publications, videos and
others. Among them, 50 consultation reports and 36 text books were accomplished. Four
of the text books had been published; 8 information and database management systems
had been established; and 5 Instruction packages had been completed (Table 11). Based



- 70-                    APPENDIX B
on the achievements of some of the above mentioned subprojects as well as the
subsequent demonstration consultation projects and three project cases, the real problems
in Spark Program and the development of enterprises had been solved in a way of
integrating theory with practice. For examples, the development strategy for Yiyang
urban area in Hunan province, the marketing and management of Jiangyin Steel Cable
Plant, and the appraisal of the area of dense Spark projects had won widespread acclaim
in all managerial departments of Spark Program, and, thus, contributed to the experience
in how to serve the township and village enterprises for the consultation business in
China.
35.   Great Influence. The physical achievements of training and technical assistance
projects were obvious, and their intangible influence on the Spark Program, the progress
of science and technology, and the development of rural industry was even deeper and
farther. The contents of the subprojects met the requirement of the transformation of
planned economy into socialist market economy in China. In recent years, Chinese
government had taken a series of measures in order to reform the systems of finance,
taxation, investment, and governmental functions. In order to fit in with the new
conditions, the major supporting factors of the Spark Program were changing from the
fund and preferential policies into technology, information and management. The training
and technical assistance activities of the Program had educated a great number of
professional people of new thought and skills, created new models of management and
new information systems, and promoted the development of Chinese consultation
business. All of them had strengthened the ability of scientific and technological services
and laid the foundation of operation of Spark Program in market economy.
IMPLEMENTATION IRECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECT'ING THE PROJECT
36.   During the 6 years of implemenltation, the Program Leading Group of SSTC had
held 7 working conferences and worked out timely the direction and focal tasks in
accordance with the existing situation at that time.
37.  In the starting phase, the principle of "Use the money early, adequately, and
properly" was proposed to lead the projects from preparative work to formal
implementation.
38.  In the implementation phase, the method of "Simplify it, prepay it, subsidize it"
was proposed in order to promote the uttilization of the loan and expedite the progress of
the projects.
39.  In the light of the requirements of the Spark Program, that the Spark subprojects
should be of "High profits, high grade, high exemplary" was proposed so as to gradually
lead the projects using the loan from the World Bank to subprojects of large scale,
application of high technology and location mainly on the area where Spark subprojects
were aggregated.



-71-                     APPENDIX B
40.  In order to promote the repetitive utilization of the loan from the World Bank, the
new target of "Pay attention to management, increase profits, grasp firmly the repayment
of the loan, promote development" was set to arrange the key activities in the coming
period.
Schedule
1986-89                The phase of preparation before start of the projects.
1989-Jun 1991          The phase of negotiation of the projects.
Jun 1991- Sep 1997      The phase of implementation of the projects.
Sep 30, 1997           Deadline of drawing of the loan (The former one was
September 30, 1996)
Jun 1997               The phase for projects post-evaluation.
41.   Actually, the phase of implementation of the projects was delayed for one year.
Therefore, SSTC applied for the postponement of deadline for drawing the loan, which
was then changed into September 30 of 1997.
Changes of Important Policies
42.   Foreign Currency. In 1994, the concurrent existence of two systems of foreign
exchange rate became the single system of market foreign exchange rate. It led to the
change of the components and cost of the investment in Renminbi.
43.   Commodity Price. In 1993 the coexistence of planned and market economies in
China was changed into only one system of market economy. And, hence, all the prices
involved in the Spark subprojects were determined by the market.
44.   Finance. The government changed original professional banks, including China
Agricultural Bank, into commercial banks. And, consequently, the alteration of the credit
policy of intermediary financial bodies was induced.
45.   Taxation. The repayment of the loan before taxation was replaced by repayment
of the loan after taxation.
46.   The delay of loaned Spark Program implementation for one year was mainly due
to:
(a) It lacked of appraisal experience for the World Bank loaned projects in first
implementation phase. The financial intermediaries were entitled to simplify the
appraisal of free quota as late as in 1993. Hence, the efficiency was kept so low that
most of the subprojects were to be approved in a short period of 1993-94.
(b) Disbursement and replenishment did not work smoothly or replenishment was made
slowly, and, therefore, the construction and the fund circulation of subprojects were
affected.



- 72 -                    APPENDIX B
(c) Domestic counterpart fund was unreliable, and the starting fund was inadequate and
the financing and fund flowing did not catch up to some extent.
(d) The time schedule of subproject appraisal did not have enough leeway. For instance,
Jilin did not take account of the cold weather affecting the construction and,
therefore, did not extend properly the deadline of construction completion.
47.   Although most of the subprojects were completed and went into operation, their
profits did not hit the targets initially desired. The major reasons are as follows:
(a) Too high productivity was predicted at the appraisal of the subprojects. In fact, in the
productivity, technology, finance, and others were more complicated than those
thought before, and, consequently, a relatively big difference from those desired
initially was formed.
(b) Owing to the changes of prices and exchange rates, the investment budgets were
overspent, the cost increased, and the overall profits decreased.
(c) The scarcity of working capital and failure of clearing up of debt chain caused some
of the subprojects unable to maintain their normal production.
(d) Some of the projects with unmatured technology or not well-tested processes,
poor internal management, inadeiquate technical personnel, and insufficient
ability for persistent development had led the enterprise profits going steadily
downhill.
PROJECTS SUSTAINABILITY
48.   In the view of future development, the hard Spark loan from the World Bank for
the subprojects satisfied the requirements of adjustment of industry directions and the
environmental policies of China. The subprojects supported by the loan from the World
Bank had high quality of technology, Based on the results. of sampling analysis, 80
percent of the subprojects reached the advanced domestic level, in which 19.35 percent
were of worldwide leading technology. Most of the subprojects started from
technological levels sharply more advanced than other industrial projects; accordingly,
they possessed the ability for further development on their own.
49.   Most of the enterprises that sponsored the subprojects have good capacity to
maintain their technology at high level. In the point of view of technical input, each
subproject had recruited 21 technical people on average. Thus, the enterprises had
introduced technical human resource, trained a number of technical people, as well as
made their progress in technology. For the commercial subprojects, the investment in the
equipment, technology experimentation and training accounted for 60-70 percent of the
total investment Therefore, the subprojects were of good sustainability with respect to
their technical efficiency.



- 73 -                   APPENDIX B
50.   The World Bank subprojects emphasized on the promotion of newly developed
industries of materials, electronics, information, and machinery as well as those of
industrial equipment and accessory products used for large scale plants. It cultivated the
growing points of economy. Its strategy conformed to the trend of economic development
and, therefore, increased the competitiveness in the market. The construction scale and
degree of modernization of a considerable number of the World Bank subprojects were
bigger and higher than those of the ordinary sole domestic Spark projects for
development of science and technology. For this reason, these enterprises should have
strong competitive capacity.
51.   Consequently, as a whole, most of the subprojects have broad prospects and are
able to further develop continually.
BANK PERFORMANCE
52.   The support of the World Bank raised the position of Spark Program and
enhanced its influence internationally. And the fact that the World Bank highly appraised
the spirit of dedication and creation of the officers of SSTC further encouraged them in
their work.
53.   The World Bank paid much attention to the role of financial intermediary
institutions, and provided them with necessary guidance and training in the management
of the loan, manipulation of fund, and assessment of subprojects. It helped their staff to
master quickly the international financing in large scale as well as the management of the
loan from the World Bank for Spark Program.
54.  In regarding to the technical assistance, such as staff training, consultation service,
preparation of Instruction Packages, and setup of information systems, the World Bank
had paid most attention to and strongly supported it. The World Bank also offered
valuable suggestions for the diffusion of the achievements of the technical assistance
projects.
55.   The World Bank thought highly about the environmental protection and the
creation of employment for labors.
56.   The World Bank paid great attention to the diffusion of the Spark subprojects
technologies, as well as supported enthusiastically the project of "Marching to the West."
57.   The rigorous, conscientious, careful, and painstaking attitude of the officers of the
World Bank in their work in China as well as their high efficiency and quality were
inspiring and made an excellent demonstration for the managerial staff of Spark Program.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
58.   The local STCs, financial organizations and intermediaries, and relevant agencies
of different levels had well done their duty to the implementation and supervision of the



-74-                     APPENDIX B
Program. It was their efficient efforts in the selection, preparation, assessment, and
supervision of the subprojects that made the Program proceed smoothly.
59.   The borrowers had paid much attention to the introduction of advanced
managerial techniques from the World Bank, which played an important role in the
structure adjustment of the assets of bank credit, expansion of the source of foreign long-
term loan, growth of profit, learning of the managerial experience from foreign banks,
training of modernized managerial staff, and upgrading of human resource. All of these
had promoted the improvement of the management of bank credit and given impetus to
the development of international services of the banks.
60.   The STCs of different levels took seriously of the organization and coordination
for the technical assistance. The successive completion and start of operation of the "soft"
loaned subprojects of Spark training system, management information system,
technology information system, engineering and technology evaluation system, had
facilitated the configuration of soft and hard conditions, strengthened the infrastructure of
science and technology, enhanced the capability of comprehensive service in science and
technology, created favorable conditions for further growth and sustenance of science and
technology.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
61.   The projects using the loan frorn the World Bank had explored and found a way
for funding the Spark Program internationally. The projects had constituted a situation for
healthy progress in the future. Basically, all the projects were successful due to:
(a) The target of the World Bank projects basically fitted the practical situation of rural
economy as well as the prospect and reformation of economy in China
(b) The managerial system of the World Bank projects essentially served their targets
well; it was an efficient managemeint.
(c) The World Bank projects had reached the initially set targets and inspired positively
on all aspects of and contributed much to the promotion of economic growth of rural
economy.
(i)  It had tapped new source of fund for the Spark Program and thus eased
greatly the supply of long-term fund in the projects area, and created
essential conditions for further development of Spark Program.
(ii) It enlarged the scale of industry and fostered the advantageous aggregation
of various industries in a district. A number of large scale and lucrative
enterprises were established through the selective onlending of the World
Bank loan, which emphasized on the key points of carrying big projects and
making fat profits. For examples, 8 projects had implemented at
Chongming in Shanghai since 1992, in which the average investment of a



- 75 -                   APPENDIX B
project was Y 50 million and all of them were listed in key projects locally.
In Jiangsu province, Gaoyou Brake Parts Plant, Nantong Special Steel
Works, Zhangjiagang Zhonggang Chemical Fiber Co. and Changshu
Jiangnan Synthetic Fiber Plant, Jiangyin Automobile Plates Factory,
Taixing Glass Plant, and Dantu Chemical Fiber Plant had all developed into
enterprises of over hundreds of million Renminbi sales per year or of over
profits plus tax of dozens of million Renminbi annually. All of them were
local backbone enterprises and big contributors of profit plus tax to their
governments. This indicated the vitality of the World Bank supported Spark
projects.
(iii) It raised the rural industry to a new level. Through the introduction of
foreign advanced technology and equipment, the rural industry had
acquired high technology which made technological progress not only for
the enterprise itself but also its industry sector as a whole. And, hence, the
image of the enterprises were improved. For examples, Jiangsu Yixing end-
seal Plant introduced, from Japan using the loan from the World Bank, a
cold/heat spinning machine of internationally first grade to modified the
existing forging press. It changed the backward position of 30 years behind
that of world standards, filled up the blank of this technology in China, and
become the biggest end-seal plant nationwide. Jiangsu Jingjiang Power
Machine Plant through the implementation of Spark project using
opportunity of the loan from the World Bank had developed jump-wise
from a village enterprise into a provincial level group of enterprises.
Similarly, A number of enterprises, such as Yangzhou Forge Machine
Plant, Nantong Jianghai Capacitor Plant, Zhangjiagang Dacron Filament
Plant, all had become high technology enterprises. Shanghai Chongming
Yierbao Lactic Acid Factory had developed L-lactic acid production by
high technological biotech for manufacture of products up to world
standards. This assisted the transformation of lactic acid products in China
into a new generation.
(iv) The Spark subprojects played fully the role of demonstration. The
successful subprojects supported by the World Bank had enormous
radiation capacity, acting as the center of economy in an area, diffused the
technology and products, promoted the development of similar sectors and
enterprises, and led the local corresponding industries to form the
characteristic business of their own scale. By using US$0.95 million of the
World Bank loan, Jilin Huakang Pharmacy became one of the leading
enterprises in Spark subprojects densely populated Dunhua district as well
as the mainstay Spark drugs enterprises. It acted as a group company
headed the local peasants in establishment of a multiple economic base for
Jinseng cultivation, herb drug plantation, and deer raising.



-76 -                    APPENDIX B
(v)  Siping Hongzui Steel Group jointly with Shanghai Heavy Mine Machinery
Plant and Baotou Steel Corporation, based on the introduction and
assimilation of foreign advanced technology, manufactured 4 machines of
continuous small billet caster for Zhejiang Suichang General Steel Plant
and others. It played the role of diffusion. Jiangsu Zhenjiang Bearings Plant
No. 2 had implemented a Spark subproject using the loan from the World
Bank and reached a value of production of Y 90 million and a value of
profit plus tax of Y 3.35 million in the same year when the subproject was
completed and put into operation in March of 1995. Starting from this, the
plant grew up into a core of the local economics and brought all the
enterprises in that village into a prototype aggregation of bearing
manufacturers by means of association and cooperation. In this way, a great
number of jobs were madle for the rural idle labors. There are many cases to
this. The implementation of the subprojects using the loan from the World
Bank had strengthened the connection among the enterprises and set up the
leading industries as well as brought the related rural industry along for
further development. It was these subprojects which put strongly the
formation of mainstay industries of Spark project-concentrated areas.
(vi)  The managerial supporting system of Spark Program was strengthened. The
achievements of Spark: subprojects gradually played roles in the
management of Spark Program, and improved its procedures of
administration. These inlluenced positively on the standardization and
rationalization of Spark management and thus provided necessary
conditions for further prolgress of Spark Program.
(vii) Excellent social benefits was obtained, and also the optimization and
regrouping of the rural industry structure were reached. For example, in
Jilin province the loan from the World Bank amounted as much as US$7.20
million used for the organization and regrouping of Spark projects in
combination with the key difficult issues of "How to take the advantages of
grains and to change the big agricultural province into a strong industrial
province." Thus, the technical development projects for aiding the
agricultural industry and intensely processing grains are selected. Such
subprojects included the 5 key subprojects supported by the World Bank
loan consisting of: broad agricultural film at Baicheng; organic solvents,
butanol and acetone from corn at Jiutai; and maltodextrine at Gongzhuling.
Meanwhile, high technologies were introduced in order to foster new
growing points of economiy by taking fully the advantage of the foundation
of old industries. For examples, the subproject of all plastics
telecommunication cable at Shulanwanda and broad aluminum foil of Yanji
Aluminum Industry. All of them had become the leading enterprises for
peasants to cast off poverty and get rich, firmly pushed the local industry
forward, and consequent]ly won a high reputation. The practice of Jilin
projects using the loan from the World Bank not only ended the history of



-77-                     APPENDIX B
utilization of the loan from World Bank by Jilin government being zero,
but, with their achievements and influence, also promoted the loan
application of US$120 million from the international finance organizations
for the project of comprehensive agricultural exploitation of Songliao Plain.
The significant effect of them had gone far out of the implementation of the
Spark Program itself.
(viii) A great number of managerial staff were trained. Through the stern training
of technological assessment of projects, market survey, purchase by
"Comparing offers before buying," business negotiation and so on, the
subprojects of Spark Program using the loan from the World Bank had
exploited their advantages to the full in order to educate the technical and
managerial backbone staff of the subprojects and raised the quality of the
staff of rural industry. Based on the principle of "High technology,
aggregation of enterprises, and foreign loan," the subprojects using the loan
from the World Bank took much attention to the guidance of the enterprises
for development of export oriented economy and participation in
international competition. All these had obtained superior results.
Problems
Project Management
62.   The control of projects had been concentrated on the first phase of projects
approval. STCs of all levels did not have any control on the phases of construction and
repayment of loan. This is why the feedback of progress of construction and information
concerning the production was insufficient and thus there was no solid foundation for the
controlling over the whole Program.
63.  In the past years, the managerial staff had greatly contributed and gained a great
deal of experience. However, because of that the period of inmplementation of these
projects was as long as 7 years, frequent changes of the environment, and high mobility
of the staff, the projects management were gradually weakened and did not efficiently
accumulate the managerial experience. This affected the healthy progress of the projects
and the diffusion of the achievements.
64.   The precommercial projects belong to exploratory ones. One of the criteria for
their success was the extent of transformation into commercial production. At the present
time, the rate of transformation was at a level of 50 percent. The causes of this low
percentage mainly comprise:
(a) The amount of investment become too small to complete much due to the inflation
of prices by a wide margin. One of the examples was the small investment of
US$200,000 per project at the first phase of the Program.



-78 -                    APPENDIX B
(b) Theoretically, the precommercial projects are the bridge between the scientific
research (laboratory technique or pilot experiment) and commercial production; but
the practical process of the conversion is quite complicated. Besides the technical
problems (technical cooperation, technology transformation, patent protection,
intellectual property, etc.), the major one was the capital. Capital is the vital factor
for transformation into commrercial production. If possible, to treat the
precommercial and commercial projects together as one whole project of two phases
and implement it continuously should give better result.
65.   Soft Loan Projects. The problem of this kind of projects is how to upgrade their
achievements and to make use of them efficiently.
66.   Repayment of Principle and Interest. According to the investigation and
analysis, though most of the projects operated normally, the profit of the enterprises
ubiquitously went down due to the impact of macroeconomic control, in addition to the
faint sense of the obligation of loan repayment. Therefore, they would rather use the fund
for investment in new project or for circulating capital than for repayment of the loan.
Hence, quite a number of enterprises did not fulfill the program of repayment of principle
with interest signed with the banks. A considerable number of loan were seriously over
due. The repayment of the loan from the World Bank had become a long-term challenge.
EXPERIENCES AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Experiences
67.  It must be emphasized that the implementation of the projects using the loan from
the World Bank is a task assigned by the government. It should have reliable supporting
conditions internally and service systemn externally. The establishment of an organization
and a system for administration of the loan from the World Bank will assure its smooth
implementation.
68.   The administration of the projects using the loan from the World Bank must be in
combination with the concrete conditions of China, and must be implemented flexibly.
Their technological content and market demand should be stressed on.
69.   The verification and evaluation of their feasibility, including market survey, the
decision of the direction of the product development, the estimation of the profits, and the
recovery rate of the investment, should be well done. This will reduce the blind
investment and raise the success rate of the projects.
70.   As to the assessment of projects, the relevant organizations should strengthen
their sense of participation, build up coordination, avoid repetitive work, and expedite the
proceeding of assessment.



- 79-                     APPENDIX B
71.   In order to speed up the implementation and construction of the projects, it is
necessary to establish a system for procuring prepayment from banks to facilitate the
system of expenditure account settlement.
72.   For the engagement of consultation firms and experts, the principles of high
quality, strict demand, and inclusion of foreigners must be observed in order to learn and
absorb the advanced management and technology from abroad.
73.   For the sake of lowering the capitalized cost, the purchase of equipment must be
accomplished through "Comparing offers before buying" and bidding.
Lessons
74.   In addition to the demanding requirements for technology and scale for the
selection of projects, it is necessary to take into account and examine strictly the credit
information, the capability of finance and management of the enterprises, the product
market as well as the qualification of the enterprise executives.
75.   The loan used to the mating projects should be fully arranged in all its aspects,
including circulating fund. The unreliability or not full payment of the fund for mating
projects are the important factor affecting the implementation of the projects, in which the
circulating fund was the very key factor for the completion, operation and profit making
of the projects. Consequently, the circulating fund should be considered one of the
components of the finance plan and entire loan used for these projects during their
finalization process.
76.   Most of the projects in China using the loans from the World Bank are long-term
and single industrial sector projects, however, the Spark project has different features:
including many short-term subprojects , many participants involving a number of sectors.
Therefore, it is necessary to constantly adapt them to the prevailing practical conditions.
77.   For those technical assistance projects longer than one year of implementation, the
terms of reference, some aspects or clauses should be supplemented or adjusted;
otherwise, it would increase the difficulty of implementation due to the unfitness of the
terms to the specific circumstances of China.



-80 -                     APPENDIX B
Statistical Tables
1. Disbursement of the Subprojects, upi to December 31, 1997
2. Project Cost and Source of Financing
3. Implementation Record of Commercial Subprojects, up to December 31, 1997
4. Interest Payment Record, up to December 31, 1997
5. Principal Repayment, up to December 31, 1997
6. Basic Data of Commercial Subprojects, up to June 30, 1997
7. Reform and Improvement Plan
8. Financial Internal Rate of Return (FI:RR)/Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
9. Domestic Training Statistics
10 Overseas Training Statistics
11. Multimedia Instructional Package
12. Equipment Procurement
13. Technical Assistance Implementation



TABLE 1: DISBURSEMENT OF THE SUBPROJECTS
(up TO DECEMBER 31, 1997)
(US$'000)
Sub-                                                                              Estimated Disbursement                                             Actual Disbursement
project no.                   Name of project                    .1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        Total    1991    1992     1993     1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
A-01-ABCA  Huanzhen Reeling Mill                                     383                                                    383             246                                                   246
A-02-ABCA  No.3 Veterinary Pharmaceutical Works                               481                                          481              473                                                   473
A-03-ABCA  Changsu City Radio Device Factory                                 1,997                                        1,997           1,503                                                  1,503
A-04-ABCA  Danyang Lamp Factory                                                       2,478                               2,478                    2,478                                        2,478
A-05-ABCA  Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet Works                                 1,309                                        1,309           1,263                                                  1,263
A-06-ABCA  Jiangyin Chemical Reagent Works                                     545                                          545             541                                                   541
A-07-ABCA  Changzhou No. 2 Synthetic Fabric Mill                                      2,370                               2,370                    2,300                                        2,300
A-04-ABCA  Jintan Vterinay Pharmaceutical Plant                                        556                                  556                      556                                          556
A-09-ABCA  Nantong Special Steel Plant                                                2,241                               2,241                             1,468                                1,468
A-10-ABCA  Changsu Rubber Belt Product Factory                                         678                                  678                      616                                          616
A-Il1-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory                                   i,500                               1,500                    1,500                                         1,500
A-12-ABCA  Yixing Sealing CoverForging Factory                                                         2,500              2,500                                       1,661     839              2,500
B-01-ABCA  Dantu Chemical Fibre Mill                                                  1,434                               1,434                    1,434                                         1,434
B-02-ABCA  Donghui Crystal Factory (subloan req: S2.235m)                                     2,235                       2,235                             2,235                                2,235
B-03-ABCA  Zheniane Second Ball Bearine Factorv                                       17S04                               !,504                     1,5nA                                        1,504
B4-4-ABCA  Taixian Granule MetaDlurgical Plant                                         685                                  685                      540                                          540
B-05-ABCA  Zhangiiagang Vacuum Coating Center                                         1,400                               1,400                     1,608                                        1,608       1
B-06ABCA  Wuxi Sprays Dryers Plant                                                     414                                  414                      414                                          414       00
B-07-ABCA  Yixin Card Jacket Plant                                                     811                                  811                      811                                          811 S
B-08-ABCA  Wuxi Roll Works                                                   1,083                                        1,083                     1,083                                        1,083       1
B-09-ABCA  Yangzhou Suzhong Agricultural Chemical Factory                              776                                  776                      776                                          776
B-10-ABCA  Changzhou Turntable Electrical Motor Co.                                   1,740                               1,740                     1,724                                        1,724
B-13-ABCA  Changsu Jiangnan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mill                              431                                  431                      431                                          431
B-14-ABCA  Lfyang No. I Cable Factoty                                                         2,016                       2,016                              1,471                               1,471
B-15-ABCA  JinjiangElectricityPowerMacbineryPlant                                     2,414                               2,414                    2,414                                         2,414
B-16-ABCA  Yangzhou General Daily Chemical Product Factory                             862                                  862                      862                                          862
B-17-ABCA  Taixing Glass Factory                                                      1,138                               1,138                     1,138                                        1,138
B-18-ABCA  Baoyin County Rope Factory                                                          1,700                      1,700                              1,548                               1,548
B-19-ABCA  Zhonggang Chemical Fibre Textile (Group) Co.                               2,500                               2,500                    2,500                                         2,500
B-20-ABCA  Yangzhong Automobile Spare Parts Factory                                                    1,082              1,082                                       1,089                      1,089
A-01-CIBA   General Textile Machinery Plant                         1,200                                                 1,200             962                                                   962
A-02-CIBA   Jianghd Capacitor Factory                                        2,500                                        2,500                              2,500                               2,500
A-03-CIBA   Suzhou Taicang Zhonglian Carpet Factory                          1,513     748                                2,262             125      517      528    1,092                       2,262
A-04-CIBA   Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                                   246    2,120                               2,366                       95    2,186                85              2,366
A-05-CIBA   Xinghua Machinery Plant                                           647                                           647                      647                                           647
A-06-CIBA   Zhangjiagang Polyester Fibre Filament Factory                             1,789                               1,789                              1,789                               1,789       5
A-07-CIBA   Xishan Aluminum Factory                                                                     1,225             1,225                                                2,500             2,500
B-41-CIBA   Wujing Silk Fabrics Factory                                      1,000                                        1,000                              1,000                               1,000
B-02-CIBA   Hanjiang County Forging Equipment Factory                         460      224                                  684                      684                                          684       Z
B-04-CBA   GaoyouBraidngPartsFactory                                           344    1,173                               1,517                      805      712                                1,517
B-O5-CIBA   Zhenjiang Hats-Maldng Machnery Embroidery                          500                                          500                      500                                           500
B4-6-CIBA   Wujing Telecommunicabon Eqlupment Factory                        1,996                                        1,996                     1,246     750                                1,996
B-07-CIBA   Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                                     1,524                                        1,524                     1,520                                        1,520
B-8-CIBA   Jingtan Spray Machine Plant                                         300                                          300                      300                                           300
B-09-CIBA   Rugao Glass Fibre Plant                                            773                                          773                                        610                         610



Sub-                                                                           Estimated Disbursement                                           Actual Disbursement
project no.                  Nameofproject                     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Total    1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
B-I1-CIBA   Nantong Oil Pump Nozzle No. 2 Factory                           361     169                                529                      376                                         376
B-1 1-CIBA   Jintan Cloisone Enamdl Processing Factory                      283                                        283                      283                                        283
A-41-ABCB  Changsu No.2 TV Set Component Factory                                             134                        134                              134                                134
A-02-ABCB  Gushan Boiler Auxiliary Machine Plant                                             134                        134                              134                                134
B-01-ABCB  Wuxi Scientific Gas Product Co.                                                                   200       200                                                200              200
B-02-ABCB  Changzbou Aohua Electric & Mechanic Co.                                                           200       200                                                200              200
B-03-ABCB  Changzhou Shenshida Special Pipe Factory                                                          200       200                                                200              200
A-01-CIB   Changzhou Fanqun Dryer Plant                                                      200                       200                              200                                200
A-02-CIBB   Yangzhou Sanli Electric Appliance Company                                        200                       200                              200                                200
A-03-CIBB   Cangziou Golden Lion Chain Puller Plant                                          200                       200                              200                                200
A-04-CDB   Gaoyou Env Prot Equip Mfg Factory                                                 200                       200                              200                                200
A-05-CIBB   Wuxian Special Refractory Plant                                                  200                       200                                       200                       200
B-01-CIBB   Jiangsu Taigou Chemical Industrial Corporation                                                   350       350                                                350              350
B-02-CIBB   Changsu Qingfen General Textle Mill                                                              350       350                                                350              350
B-03-CIBB   Jiangsu Jinshi Group Corporation                                                                 350       350                                                350              350
B-04-CIBB   Chngsu Jingcheng Chemical Factory                                                                350       350                                                350              350
B-05-CBB   Changsu Special Welded Pipe Factory                                                               350       350                                                350              350
B-06-CIBB   WuxiDaxin Food Additive Factory                                                                  350       350                                                350              350
A-01-JEDIC  Gongzhuling Dextrin Factory                            490                                                 490             490                                                 490
A-o2-JEDIC  Longing City Biochemical Factory                       795      450                                       1,245            900      345                                       1,245
A-03-JEDIC  Gongzhuling Spin-on Filter Factory                      78                                                  78                       72                                         72
A44-JEDIC  Yanji Food Packing Material Factory                              370                                        370                      277      63                                340
A-05-JEDIC  Jiutai Solvent Factory                                        1,568     932                               2,500                   1,240     272      945                      2,457       1
A46-JEDIC  Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory                                 421                                        421                      421                                        421       00
A-07-JPTIC  Gongzhuling Automobile Onaments Factory                                          219                       219                              212                       394      606
A-08-JPTC  Korean Nationality Aluminum Product Factory                             2,180     320                      2,500                             346    1,091             1,326    2,763
B-01-JPIIC  SipingYinYuanHeatExchangerFactory                                      1,562                              1,562                            1,135      20      412             1,567
B-02-JPTIC  Siping Auto Component Parts Factory                                     781                                781                              523                                523
B-03-JPllC  Jilin #3 Auto Fittings Works                                            495                                495                               188     313                       501
B-4-JPTIC  Liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Plastis Factory                                1,700     330                      2,030                             265    1,238                      1,503
B-05-JPllC  Baicheng Plastic Product Plant                                                   288                       288                               195                               195
B-6-JPTIC  Yushu City Tannery                                                      14                                  184                             125       59                       184
B-07-JPIC  Meibekou Light Industry                                                  414                                414                              300                                300
B4)8-JPTIC  Dehui Pipe-Joint Works                                                           223                       223                                       232                       232
B-9-JPTIC  Chungeheng Rubber Pipe Plant                                                      246                       246                                       258                       258
B-10-JPTIC  Panshi Non-Metal Industry Co.                                                    207                       207                                                207              207
B-I1-JIPTIC  Dam Lianhe Chemical Plant                                                       169                        169                                      177                       177
B-12-JPTIC  Lishu Yehe Fruit Processing Factory                                              300                       300                              300                                300
B-13-JPllC  Baicheng #1 Plasc Factory                                                        299                       299                              245       69                       313
B-14-JPTIC  Yushu Biological Products Factory                                                589                       589                                       362      227              589
B-15-JPTIC  Un Shang Hao Plyood IndDevel Ge Corp                                             173                        173                                      126       53              179
B-16-JPTIC  Wanda Communication Cable Co.                                                  1,500                      1,500                                      441    1,059             1,500
B-17-JPllC  Dunhua HuKang Phar. Factory                                                      690     264               954                                       469      677             1,146
B-1s-JPIC   man Whit. Cement-Plant                                                           172                       172                                       181              708      889       z
B-19-JPTIC  Yanji XglPIlic Products Co. Ltd.                                                         721               721                                                904              904 t3
B-20-JpTlC  Shuangyang Artficial Diamond Pant                                                286                       28                                        300                       300
B-21-JPIIC  Sipmg Hongzi Maiinery General Plant                                            2,299                      2,299                                     1,232                     1,232      g
A-01-SHA   Chongmng Feed Mill                                      226                                                 226    112      103                                                 215
A42-SHA   Guanglmi Automatic Inhtumnnt Factory                     319                                                 319   118        38                                                 156
A-o3-SHA    Shanghai Hu& Hai Towel Factory                         710                                                 710   330       136                                                 466
A4-HA    Xintong Subidiary Factory                                 660       73                                        733             458      141      94                                693



Sub-                                                                           Estimated Disbursement                                           Actual Disbursenent
pwject no.                   Nameof project                     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Total    1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
A-05.U    CUwamoingElectroilatingFactmy                            28      454                                        482             351                                                  351
ACE-SA      Chaming Wuxwao Machine Factwy                          315                                                  315            171       91                                         262
A-07-SHA   Sbanghi No. I Subsiuy Glove Fatmy                        97      117                                         214                     212                                         212
A-SHA    aoning AliW Facteoy                                             1,390                                       1,390                   1,164       85                              1,249
A4 IHA   Shughait ibmg Smtehey & Foundry                                            519    1,421                      1,940                            1,053     238      367             1,663
A-10-SA   Shanghai Jin-Yin Dyeing Silk Comporation                                         2,500                      2,500                                     2,500                     2,500
B3O-01 A   Shnglei Hewo Tacile Facoy                                               2,500                              2,500                     120    2,383                              2,503
B-02-SHA   Shugangil amningCatical Fiber Bean Fctoy                                2,500                              2,500                            1,111     642                      1,753
B    I03MSHA   Shnghai Bnli New Style Pacg Meial Factory                           2,367                              2,367                   1,600      573     194                      2,367
4SHA    Shugai Ds Dong Chanical Fire Comny                                                  1,796                     1,796                            1,350                              1,350
B-05-SHA   Shgh  Yi Er eo Laedic Acid P1oduct Factory                               789    1,711                      2,500                            2,456                              2,456
B41641H    Shni Fw Est Rhigeto Factory                                                               650               650                                       650                        650
TeOl                                       S,301  32,704  49,078   22,957   6442   2,700   109,182   560    7,760  37,345   30,532   1C,389   10,030   2,428  105,043
00
W



TABLE 2: PROJECT COST AND SOURCE OF FINANCING
(ACCORDING TO THE APPRAISAL REPORT)
(Y'OOO/US$'000)
Sources of Financing
Total Cost                                World Bank _
Foreign                  Local                                          Local cur-     Other       Other       Enter-
Sub-                                                        Total    expenditures    % of    excendiitures    % of      Foreign cunrency loans   rency loans    banks     sources      prises
projet no.                  Name of pject                      Cost       (USS)        total       (USS)        total       USS         Yuan         (Y)          (Y)         Ca)          Ci)
A-01-ABCA   Huanzhe Reeling Mil                                     6,354       1,354       21.3%        5,000      78.7%          246                                                         5,000
A-02-ABCA   No.3 Veterinay Phamnacutical Works                      7,680       2,810       36.6%        4,870      63A%           473                    1,870                                3,000
A-03-ABCA   Changu City Radio Device Factory                       18,469       8,267       44.8%       10.202      55.2%        1,503                    6,400                                3,802
A-04-ABCA   Danyang Lamp Factory                                   21,098      14,198       67.3%        6,900      32.7%        2,478                    4,100                                2,800
A-05-ABCA   Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet Works                      17,565      10,485       59.7%        7,080      40.3%        1,263                                                         7,080
A4-6ABCA   riangyin Chemical Reagent Works                          6,125       2,975       48.6%        3,150      51.4%          541                    1,000                                2,150
A-07-ABCA   Changzhou No.2 Synteic Fabric Mi                       20,440      19,090       93.4%        1,350       6.6%        2,300                    1,000                                  350
A-08-ABCA   rmtan Veteriny Phamnaceutical Plant                     3,209       3,209      100.0%           0        0.0%          556
A-09-ABCA   Nantong Special Steel Plant                            26,000      12,641       48.6%       13,360      51A%         1,468                                                         13,360
A-10-ABCA   Changp  RuWber Belt Product Factomy                    10,388       3,388       32.6%        7,000      67.4%          616                    3,000                                4,000
A-I1-ABCA   Zanugjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory                12,290       8,250       67.1%        4,040      32.9%        1,500                      700                                3,340
A-12-ABCA   Yixmng Sealing Cover Forng Factory                     81,010      20,750       25.6%       60,260      74.4%        2,500                   10,300      11,300                   38,660
B-01-ABCA   Dintu Chemical Fibre Mill                              40,997       8,207       20.0%       32,790      80.0%        1,434                    8,940       4,000       10,250       9,600
B-02-ABCA   Donghai Crystal Factory (subloan req: S2.235m)         19,916      12,936       65.0%        6,980      35.0%        2,235                      500                                6,480        1
B-03-ABCA   Zhenjing Second Ball Beang Factory                     16,401       8,591       52.4%        7,810      47.6%        1,504                                 1,050                   6,760       00
B-04-ABCA    Taixian Granule Metalurgical Plant                    43,100       2,970        6.9%       40,130      93.1%          540                   22,150       9,580                     8,400      4
B-05-ABCA   Zhangiiagang Vacuum Coating Center                     22,804       8,844       38.8%       13,960      61.2%        1,608                    1,800                                12,160
B-0ABCA   WuxiSpraysDryersPlant                                     5,118       2,276       44.5%        2,842      55.5%          414                    1,008                      136        1,698
B-07-ABCA   Yixin Card Jacket Plant                                 6,520       4,461       68.4%        2,059      3 1.6%         811                      290                                 1,769
B-08-ABCA   Wuxi Roll Works                                        12,629       5,954       47.1%        6,675      52.9%         1,083                   2,540                      371        3,764
B49-ABCA   Yangzhou Suzhong AgriculturWal Chemical Factory          9,171       4,471       48.7%        4,700      51.3%          776                    2,550                                2,150
B-10-ABCA   Changziou Tumtable Electrical Motor Co.                14,308      14,308      100.0%           0        0.0%        1,724                        0                                    0
B-13-ABCA   ChangsuJiangnan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mill           5,297       2,371       44.8%        2,926      55.2%          431                    1,180                                 1,746
B-14-ABCA   Liyang No.1 Cable Factory                              19,201      12,201       63.5%        7,000      36.5%        1,471                    3,000                                4,000
B-15-ABCA   JujiangElectricityPowerMachineryPlant                  21,608      13,908       64.4%        7,700      35.6%        2,414                                                          7,700
B-16-ABCA   Yangzhou General Daily Chemical Poduct Factory         11,188       4,966       44.4%        6,222      55.6%          862                    5,000                                 1.222
B-17-ABCA   Taixing Glass Factory                                  18,056       6,556       36.3%       11,500      63.7%        1,138                    8,030                                 3,470
B-18-ABCA   Baoyin County Rope Factory                             16,970      12,846       75.7%        4,124      24.3%        1,548                    1,500                                 2,624
B-19-ABCA   Zhonggang Chemical Fibre Texdle (Group) Co.            39,437      13,750       34.9%/      25,687      65.1%        2,500                                17,251       5,395        3,041
B-20-ABCA   Yangzhong Automobile Spare Pats Factory                49,439       9,039       18.3%       40,400      81.7%         1,089                  10,000       15,490      12,720        2,190
A-01-CIBA    General Textie Machinery Plant                        14,976       5,291       35.3%        9,685      64.7%          962                    1,200       4,235                     4,250
A-02-CIBA    Jianghai Capacitor Factory                            23,050      13,750       59.7%        9,300      40.3%        2,500                    2,000        3,000                    4,300
A-03-CIBA    Suzhou Taicang Zhonghin Carpet Factory                28,629      15,775       55.1%       12,854      44.9%        2,262                                6,200                     6,654
A-04-CIBA    Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                      18,707      13,251       70.8%        5,456      29.2%        2,366                    2,400           0                     3,056
A-05-CIBA    Xinghua Machinery Plant                                7,692       3,559       46.3%        4,133      53.7%          647                      700        1,600                    1,833
A 106-CBA    Zhandliagan Polyester Fibre Flament Factory           18,938       9,840       52.0%        9,099      48.0%         1,789                   3,700                                 5,399
A-07-CIBA    Xishan Aluminum Factory                               49,606      20,750       41.8%       28,856      58.2%        2,500                                19,000                    9,856       V
B-01-CMBA    Wujing Silk Fabrics Factory                           38,000       5,500       14.5%       32,500      85.5%         1,000                              25,000                     7,500      k
B-02-CIBA    Hanjiang County Forging Equipment Factory             14,177       3,764       26.5%       10,413      73.5%          684                                 5,200                    5,213
B-4-CBA    Gaoyou Brakng Parts Factory                             22,356       8,343       37.3%       14,013      62.7%         1,517                                9,800                    4,213
B-OS-CIBA    Zhenjiang Hats-Maing Machinery Embroidery              4,714       2,750       58.3%        1,964      41.7%          500                                  600                     1,364
B-06-ClBA    Wujing Telecommunication Equipment Factory            18,542      10,978       59.2%        7,564      40.8%         1,996                                4,000                    3,564



Sources of Financing
Tot Cost                                World Bank
Foreign                 Local                                         Local cur-    Other       Other      Enter-
Sub-                                                      Total   expenditures    % of    expendiitures    % of     Foreign currency loans   rency loans    banks   sources      prises
project no.                Name of project                  Cost       (USS)        total      (USS)       total        USS        Yuan         (Y)         (Y)         (Y)         (Y)
B-07-CIBA    Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                       23,293       8,360      35.9%/      14,933      64.1%        1,520                  1,500       4,200                   9,233
B-08-CIBA    Jingtan Spray Machine Plant                         9,250       1,650       17.8%       7,600      82.2%         300                               6,000                    1,600
B-09-CIBA    Rugpo Gass Fibre Plant                             11,088       5,063      45.7%        6,025      54.3%         610                                                       6,025
B-10-CBA    Nantong Oil Punp Nozzle No. 2 Factory                9,526       2,070      21.7%        7,456      78.3%         376                               4,200                   3,256
B-I-CIBA    Jintan Cloisonne Enamel Processing Factory          4,580       1,554      33.9%        3,026      66.1%         283                               2,300                     726
A-01-ABCB   Changsu No.2 TV Set Component Factory                3,000       1,139      38.0%        1,861      62.0%         134                   1,000                                 861
A-02-ABCB   Gushan Boiler Auxiliary Machine Plant                2,272       1,072      47.2%        1,200      52.8%         134                                                        1,200
B-01-ABCB   Wwxi Scientific Gas Product Co.                      2,660       1,660      62.4%        1,000      37.6%         200                                                        1,000
B-02-ABCB   Changzhou Aohua Electric & Mechanic Co.             10,208       1,660       16.3%       8,548      83.7%         200                   2,927                                5,621
B-03-ABCB   Changzhou Shenshida Special Pipe Factory            25,916       1,660       6A%        24,256      93.6%         200                   7,935                               16,321
A-0-CIBB    Changzhou Fanqun Dryer Plant                         3,262       1,100      33.7%        2,162      66.3%         200                                 600                    1,562
A-02-C1BB    YangzhouSanliElectricApplianceCompany               2,900       1,100      37.9/       1,800      62.1%         200                                 670                    1,130
A-03-CBB    Changzhou Golden Lion Chain Puller Plant             3,956       1,100      27.8%        2,856      72.2%         200                                1,000                   1,856
A-04-CBB    Gaoyou EnvProtEq.uipMfgFactory                       4,555       1,100      24.1%        3,455      75.9%         200                                1,800                   1,655
A-05-CIBB    Wuxian Special Refractory Plant                     4,360       1,100      25.2%        3,260      74.8%         200                                 560                    2,700
B-01-iBB      ianga Taigou Chemical Industrial Coporation        7,558       2,905      38.4%        4,653      61.6%         350                                 500                    4,153
B-02-BB    ChangsuQingfenGeneralTextileMilN                      6,324       2,905      45.9%        3,419      54.1%         350                                   0                    3,419
B-ua-uMuB    Jiangsu .msWm  ronup Corporaion                     a,Yuu       YU,       31.0.        3,)           1.-aO      .1DU                               I,uuu                   4,w
B-04-BB    Changsu Jingheng Chemical Fatory                      7,143       2,905      40.7%        4,238      59.3%         350                                 500                    3,738
B-05-CIBB    Changsu Specia Welded Pipe Factory                 13,146       2,905      22.1%       10,241      77.9%         350                                4,000                   6,241       1
B-06-CiBB    WuxiDaxinFoodAdditiveFactory                        9,220       2,905      31.5%        6,315      68.5%         350                                1,000                   5,315      00
A-01-JEDIC   Gongzhuling Dextrin Factory                         8,510       2,550      30.0%        5,960      70.0%                    2,550       1,940       2,100                   1,920
A-02-EDIC   Longjing City Biochemical Factory                    18,350      6,500      35A%        11,850      64.6%                    6,500      6,920        2,000                   2,930
A-03-JEDIC     ongzhuing Spin-on Fdter Factory                   2,800         420       15.0%       2,380      85.0%                     420         330        1,540                     510
A4W4-JEDIC   YanjiFoodPackingMatemialFactory                     4,100       1,990      48.5%        2,110      51.5%                    1,990        740        1,150                     220
A-05-JEDIC   Jiutai Solvent Factory                             59,190      13,500      22.8%       45,690      77.2%                   13,500     21,190       17,000                   7,500
A46-JEDIC   Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory                     3,873       2,400      62.0%        1,473      38.0%                    2,400        789         200                     484
A-07-JTITC   Gongzhulmg Automobile Oraments Factory             40,160      18,300      45.6%       21,860      54.4%        2,576       1,150       6,650      14,010                   1,200
A-08-WTiC   Korean Nationity Aumimnm Product Factory            34,836      17,620       50.6%      17,216      49.4%        1,272       7,061      10,216                               7,000
B-01-JPIiC   Siping Yin Yuan Heat Exchanger Factory             31,613       9,000      28.5%       22,613      71.5%                    9,000       2,380      12,233                   8,000
B-2-J0TITC    Siping Auto Component Pata Factory                 15,412      4,500       29.2%      10,912      70.8%                    4,500        412        4,000                   6,500
B-03-JTITC   Ddin #3 Auto Fsttings Works                         8,900       4,300      48.3%        4,600      51.7%                    4,300       3,770        200                      630
B4-JPTIC   Liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Piaics Factory              26,895      12,475      46.4%       14,420      53.6%        1,503                   4,150       8,730                   1,540
B-05-JP7IC   Baicheng Plastic  oduct Plant                       4,500       1,670       37.1%       2,830      62.9%                    1,670       1,360        700                      770
B-06-JPTIC    Yushu City Tannery                                 4,227       1,600       37.9/      2,627      62.1%                    1,600       1,987                                 640
B-07-JPJIC    Meihekou Light _ustry                              5,650       2,400       42.5%       3,250      57.5%                    2,400       2,000                               1,250
B-08-1HIC   Dehui Pipe-Joint Works                               4,660       1,940       41.6%       2,720      58.4%                    1,940       1,380                               1,340
B-09-JPTIC    Chungdheng Rubber Pipe Plant                       5,950       2,140       36.0%       3,810      64.0%                    2,140       2,330                               1,480
B-10-JPITC   PanshiNon-MetalndusitryCo.                          2,945       1,800       61.1%       1,145      38.9%                    1,800        645                                  500
B-I1-JPlC    Dan  Lianhe Chemical Plant                          3,747       1,466       39.1%       2,281      60.9%                    1,466        624        1,000                     657
B-12-JP17C   _ishu Yde Fruit Pocessing Factory                   7,000       2,610       37.3%       4,390      62.7%                    2,610       1,930                               2,460
B-134PliC    Baichengl1 PlasticFactory                           8,380       2,600       31.0%/      5,780      69.0%                    2,600       1,580       3,000                   1,200
B-14-jpTC    Yushu Biological Pioduts Factory                    9,670       5,120       52.9Y       4,550      47.1%                    5,120       1,660                               2,890
B-15-lPIIC   Li Shang HaoPbyoodlnd Deel GenCorps                 6,090        1,420      23.3%       4,670      76.7%          154        150        3,570                               1,100
B-16-JPIC    WombaCrun ionCableCo.                             32,065      13,115       40.9%      18,950      59.1%        1,150       3,570       6,460       5,000                   7,490 ~
B-17-JFflC    DumhuaHa Kong Phar. Fatoy                         29,000      10,800       37.2%      18,200      6.8%                    10,800                  10,000                   8,200
B-1I-JIC    TM Whte Cment Plt                                    5,470        1,500      27.4%       3,970      72.6%                    1,500       1,5001                              2,470
B-19-JPTJC   YumjiXlagtiPlasaicrductsCo.IAd.                     12,480      6,000       48.1%       6,480      51.9%          688        290         28 6       1,100                   5,094



Sources of Financing
Total Cost                             World Bank __
Foreign Lpcal                                                      Local cur-    Other      Other       Enter-
Sub-                                                    Total   expenditures    % of   expendiitures    % of    Forein currency loans  Fency loans    banks   sources      prises
project no.               Namne of project                 Cost      (USS)       total      (USS)       total       USS        Yuan        (Y)         (Y)        (Y)         (Y)
B-20-JFI}C   Shuangyang Atificial Diamond Plant                4,220       2,490     59.0%        1,730     41.0%                   2,490        870                                860
B-21-JFHC    Siping Hongzi Machinay Genal Plant              111,000      20,000     1I.0%       91,000     82.0ff                 20,000      10,000     37,000                 44,000
A-01-SHA    ChongmingFeedMlNl                                  1,760       1,160     65.9%         600      34.1%         215                                500                    100
A-02-SHA    Guaghui Auftoatc hnstrunentFaetoey                 2,721        851      31.3%        1,870     68.7%         156                   1,000                               870
A-03-SNA    ShangaidHuaHaiToweldFay                            5,723       2,513     43.9Y,       3,210     56.1%         466                  2,610                                600
A-04.SHA     XlnO   Subsidiwy Factory                          6,538       4,078     62.4%        2,460     37.6%         693                   1,502                               958
A-05-SHA    Chonning Electmping Facry                          4,283       1,980     46.2%        2,303     53.8%         351                   1,700                               603
A-06-SHA    ChoogmingWuaoMaehineFactory                       2,813       1,496     53.2%        1,317     46.8%         262                   1,015                               302
A-07-SHA    Sh_ag  No. I Subsiiary Glove Factory               2,862       1,232     43.0%        1,630     57.0h         212                    980                                650
A40SHA    Chongming Aied Factmy                               22,772       7,397     32.5%       15,375     67.5%        1,249                            14,550                    825
A49-SNA      Shtga ibagSmeltay & FounmAy                      24,795      14,147     57.1%       10,648     42.9%        1,663                             2,380                   8,268
A-10-SHA     Shghi n-Yin Dyeng Silk Copotion                  64,071      20,891     32.6%       43,180     67.4%       2,500                 25,130                              18,050
B-01-SHA    Snoas Hemuo Textie Factory                        41,800      18,300     43.S%       23,500     56.2%       2,503                  18,000                              5,500
B-02-SHA    Shanghi linming Chemical Fiber mDn Factory        20,500      15,020     73.3%        5,480     26.7%        1,754                 4,000                               1,480
8-034HA      Shnghai Baoo New Style Pakcng Maleia Factoy      30,201      15,901     52.7%       14,300     47.3%       2,367                  11,000                             3,300
1B14"H       StnghaiDeDougChemicalFibreCmnpy                  20,218      11,438     56.6%        8,780     43.4%        1,350                 3,100                               5,680
845-%U       Shngha Yi ErBao Lactic Acid Pducs Factory        49,169      21,311     43.3%       27,858     56.7%       2,456                  14,800                             13,058
B4-6SHA      SmiFw EndtRefigepraorFactoy                      54,460       5,478      10.1%      48,982     89.9%         650                 37,350                              11,632
TOal                                 1,908,66    733,857      386%    1,167,812      61.4%      90,9ff     115,517    340,076     304,029     28,872     494,835
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl
W



TABLE 3: IMPLEMENTATION RECORD OF COMMERCIAL SUBPROJECTS
(UP TO DECEMBER 31, 1997)
(Y'OOO)
Appraisal Estmate                                                      Actual
Sub-                                                    Operation               Production                Profit &     Approval      Operation         Production            Profit &
project no.               Name of Project                   Date                   Capability                Taxes          Date          Date           Capability             Taxes
A-OI-ABCA  HuanzienReelingMill                               1992.7                   36MT                         2,270   1991.7.17       1993.3           36MT                         2,640
A-02-ABCA  No.3 Veterinary Pharmaceutical Works              1992.7                   800 MT                       2,557   1991.7.19       1992.7           800 MT                       3,080
A-03-ABCA  ChangsuCityRadioDeviceFactory                     1993.6                   350MT                        3,681   1992.6.16       1994.2           350MT                        3,500
A-04-ABCA  Danyang Lamp Factory                              1994.6                4,000,000 unit                 16,151   1992.6.16       1995.9         700,000 unit                  -2,329
A-05-ABCA  Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet Works                 1993.6                 15,000 MT                     20,000   1992.6.16       1993.6          15,000 MT                    12,000
A4-6-ABCA  Jiangyin Chemical Reagent Works                   1993.7                   720 MT                         500   1992.7.15       1993.7           500 MT                         300
A-07-ABCA  ChangzhouNo.2SyntheticFabricMill                  1993.10.                1,OOOMT                       3,565   1992.10.15     1993.10.          S00MT                          316
A-08-ABCA  JintanVeteinaryPharmaceuticalPlant                1993.11                  50MT                         3,099   1992.11.16     1993.12                            ProductionStopped
A-09-ABCA  Nantong Special Steel Plant                       1995.8                  3,000 MT                     18,947    1993.8.9       1996.7          3,000 MT                     27,530
A-10-ABCA  ChangsuRubberfBeltProductFactory                  1994.8                 8,000,000 m                    9,658    1993.8.9       1994.8          3,500,000                      -150
A-I1-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory           1994.8                  1,500 MT                      2,700    1993.8.9       1994.8           700 MT                      -3,080
A-12-ABCA  Yixing Sealing Cover Forging Factory              1996.6                 800,000 unit                  23,622   1995.6.27      1995.10.        500,000 unit                   6,810
B-01-ABCA  Dantu Chemical Fibre Mill                         1994.2                  2,000 MT                     14,340    1993.2.8       1994.4          1,500 MT                    -15,256
B-02-ABCA  Donghai Crystal Factory (subloan req: S2.235m)    1994.7                   29 MT                        5,500    1993.2.8       1995.4            18 MT                      -3,420
Ufl1..AUf'A        A c,... 1 Uji-fl, V .               I,,~-.                        ....-                            .
B43_v3r-^   7^rg   ,dB.!B-g. .w.;                 9A5.2                 :,,440sei                      5I,7;;   i993.2.o3     i99.2            i2,000 set                   -5,600
B-04-ABCA  Taixian Granule Metallurgical Plant               1994.1                3300,000 unit                  11,600    1993.2.8       1994.7         1600,000 unit                  1,450
B-05-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Vacuum Coating Center                1995.4                   900 sets                    19,193    1993.4.9       1995.4                             Production Stopped
B4-6-ABCA  WuxiSpraysDryersPlant                             1994.1                   80 unit                      1,192    1993.4.9       1994.1            80unit                      1,200      00
B-07-ABCA  Yixin Card Jacket Plant                           1993.10.               120,000,000                    2,493    1993.4.9       1994.3          90,000,000                      225        '
B-08-ABCA  WuxiRollWorks                                     1993.11                 3,500MT                       2,106    1993.4.9      1993.11          3,500MT                       2,000
B4-9-ABCA  Yangzhou Suzhong Agricultural Chemical FactorY    1994.6                  1,300 MT                      3,836   1993.6.28       1994.8                             Production Stopped
B-10-ABCA  Changzhou Turntable Electrical Motor Co.          1994.6                 100,000 unit                   9,375   1993.6.28       1994.7                             Production Stopped
B-13-ABCA  Changsu Jiangnan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mill    1994.6                   750 MT                        1,023   1993.6.28      1994.6           750 MT                         450
B-14-ABCA  Liyang No. I Cable Factory                        1994.6                  25,329'lam                    8,060   1993.6.28       1994.8          25,329km                      4,500
B-15-ABCA  JinjiangElectricityPowerMachineryPlant            1995.6                  4,500 MT                      15,870   1993.6.28      1994.12         4,500 MT                       1,055
B-16-ABCA  Yangzhou General Daily Chemical Product Factory   1994.6                  4,700 MT                      10,893   1993.6.28      1994.11                            Production Stopped
B-17-ABCA  Taixing Glass Factory                             1994.6                  16,000 MT                      7,876   1993.6.28      1994.9          16,000 MT                      7,450
B-1-ABCA  BaoyinCountyRopeFactoy                            1994.6                  2,000MT                       13,194   1993.6.28      1994.6           1,500 MT                       -90
B-19-ABCA  Zhonggang Chemical Fibre Textile (Group) Co.      1994.1                  2,400 MT                      9,606    1993.8.9       1995.1           3,200 MT                     8,880
B-20-ABCA  YangzhongAutomobileSparePartsFactory              1996.10.                50,000set                     17,765   1995.10.10    1996.10.         30,000 set                     -780
A-01-CIBA   GenalTextileMachineryPlant                        93.3                    78unit                       7,337     91.8.7         93.3             78unit                      4,301
A-02-CIBA   Jianghi Capacitor Factory                         93.2                 4,000,000 unit                   6,589    91.12.4        95.2          3,850,000 unit                  5,220
A-03-CIBA   Suzhou Taicang Zhonglian Carp Factory             94.9                   90,000 set                    12,094    92.6.17        95.4            13,000 set                   -1,343
A-04-CIBA   Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                  95.5                  500,000 set                    12,088    92.6.24         0                 0                             0
A-5-CIBA   XinghuaMachineryPlant                              94.1                   60,000set                      5,363    92.11.17       94.1            60,000set                     5,426
A46-CIBA   Thangliagang Polyester Fibre Filament Factofy      94.1                   2,500 MT                       9,018    93.8.9         94.3            2,500 MT                      6.800
A-07-CIBA   Xishan Aluminum Factory                           98.6                   5,000 MT                      15,000    1996.8         97.6            3,505 MT                      9,515
B-01-CIBA   Wujing Silk Fabrics Factory                       93.1                  8,129,000 m'                   12,202    93.2.8         94.8          7,230,000 m2                    6,321
B-02-CIBA   Hanjiang County Forging Equipment Factory         94.1                    230 unit                      9,019    93.2.8         94.7             228unit                      5,410
B-04-CA   Gaoyou Braking Parts Factory                        94.7                   70,000 set                     9,749    93.2.8         94.7            70,000 set                    7,250
B-5-CIBA   Zhenjiang Hats-Making Machinery Embroidery         93.9                 110,000 dozen                    1,601    93.2.8         93.9          50,000 dozen                     400
B4-6-C1BA   Wujing Telecommunication Equipment Factory        92.7                   20,000 m2                     18,970    93.2.8         94.3            20,000 m2                    17,670
B-07-CIBA   Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                                            4,610,000 m                     5,283    93.2.8         93.2            2,500,000                      729
B3-CIBA   JingtanSprayMachmehPlant                            93.6                  1.60,000unit                    3,175    93.2.8         93.6           10,000unit                     1,588
B-09-CIBA   Ruao Glass Fibre Plant                            95.5                  4,500,000 ml                    4,871    93.2.8         95.5          4,500,000 m2                    4,614
B-1O-CIBA   Nantong Oil Pump Nozzle No.2 Factoy               94.6                 1000,000 unit,                   3,000     93.2.8        94.6          750,000 unit,                   1,680



Appraisal Estimate                                                   Actual
Sub-                                                  Operation               Production              Profit &      Approval     Operation        Production           Profit &
pDiect no.               Name of Project                  Date                   Capability              Taxes          Date         Date           Capability            Taxes
B-l-CIBA   Jintan Cloisonne Eunel Processing Factory        93.S                2250,000 unit,                 1,773    93.2.8         93.8         1200,000 unit,                  940
A-01-JEDIC  Gongzhuling Dextcin Factory                     91.1                  2,400 MT                     2,976    91.7.23        91.1           3,000 MT                    2,650
A-02-JEDIC  Longjing City Biochemical Factory               93.1                  1,840 MT                     6,694    91.7.24
A-03-JEDIC  GongzAuling Spin-on Filter Factoy               92.3                 150,000 unit                  2,163    92.2.26        92.1          300,000 unit                  1,310
A-04-JEDIC  Yanji Food Pacing Material Factoy               93.1                   320 MT                      2,335    92.2.28        92.1           240 MT                        850
A-05-EDIC  Jiutai Solvent Fatory                            94.5                   375 MT                     10,998    92.8.25
A-06-JEDIC  Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory                93.1                 240,000 unit                  3,222    93.6.25        93.8          150,000 unit                   980
A-07-JPTIC  Gongzbuling Automobile Ornaments Fatory         95.1                 160,000 unit                  8,791    93.7.28
A-08-JPTIC  Korean Nationality Aluminum Product Factory     95.8                   700 MT                     11,670    93.8.9
B-01-JPTIC  Siping Yin Yuan Heat Exchanger Factory          94.1                  15,000 m 2                  17,706   93.11.19        94.1           25,000m'                    14,390
B-02-JPYIC  SipingAutoComponent PastsFactory                94.1                 10,000 unit                   6,752   93.11.19        94.8           6,000 unit                  3,653
B-03-JPTIC  Jilin #3 Auto Fittinp Works                     94.8                  2,400 MT                     2,265    94.2.16        95.1           1,600 MT                      520
B-04-JPTIC  liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Plastics Factory       95.1                 240,000 set                   9,673    94.2.16        95.4          150,000 set                   1,200
B-05-JFFIC  Baicheng lasti  oduct Plant                     95.1                   400 MT                      2,391    94.4.21        94.9            360 MT                      1,070
B406-JPTIC  YushuCityTaneqy                                 94.7             48,OOOm2 8,000unit               1,256    94.4.21        95.1           3,000 2                       550
B-07-JWIIC  Mebekoul ight Industry                          94.1                  1,050 MT                     2,473    94.7.19        94.9            700 MT                       860
B--JPIC   Dehui Pipe-Joint Work                             96.1                   700 MT                      3,179    94.7.19        95.7            500 MT                       980
D-B JPTIC  ChungchengRubberPipePlant                        95.1                  306,000m                     2,967    94.7.19        95.4           220,000m                     1,010
B-10-JPTIC  Panshi Non-Metal ndustry Co.                    95.2                  6,30 MT                      1,671    94.7.19
B-11-JTIlC  Dan LianheChemical Plant                        94.9                   900MT                       2,209    94.7.19        94.1            800 MT                      1,450
B-12-JPTIC  LishnYeheFnuitPomessimg Fatory                  95.9                   140MT                       3,023    94.7.19        95.9            100MT                        930
B-13-JPTIC  Baicheng#1 Plastic Factory                      95.1                  2,550 MT                     3,970    94.7.19        94.8           2,700 MT                     3,100
B-14-JP1IC  Yushu Bidological Prodcts Factory               95.1                  1,600 MT                     2,731    94.7.19        96.1           1,000 MT                      890
B-1541!11C   InShangHaoPlyoodIndDevelGenCmpn                95.7                  1,200.2                      3,393    94.7.19        95.7           1,000 tm                      116       00
B-16-JPIlC  WandsCommunication Cable Co.                    95.8                 160,000 lan                  16,396    94.7.19        96.4          150,000 Ion                   4,930      00
B-17-JPTIC  DamhuasHuaKangfhtwFactory                       95.9               100 million pieces             24,455    94.7.19        96.4        150 million pieces             28,860      1
B-18-JPTIC  Jian White Cement Plant                         95.1      16,000 MT Cement, 1,200 MT fertilizer    3,035    94.7.19        96.1       10,000 MT Cement                  790
B-19-JflC  Yanji Xingti Plastc Poducts Co. Ltd.             96.1                6,910,000 unit                 6,419    95.4.25        96.7         6,100,000 unit                 3,230
B-20-JPlIC  ShuWngyArbficial Diu d Plant                    95.1                 87S,500 unit                  1,355    95.4.25        96.1          630,000 unit                   340
B-21-JPllC  Siping Honu  MeryGeneralPlt                     95.2                1,050,000 unit                87,583    95.4.25        96.1          150,000 unit                 22,390
A-01-SHA   arn_ ingFeedMill                                91.05                  3,240MT                        814     91.07        92.05           2,000MT                        54
A-02-SHA   Gughui Aumatic   sument Factory                 92.01                  4,000 unit                   1,744     91.07        92.05           3,800 unit                   1,166
A-03A   Slnh  iHunaHaiTowelFacbry                          91.05                  196,500m                     2,564     91.08        92.06           137,600m                     1,322
A-04-SHA   Xintong  bsidiay Factry                         93.04                   500 MT                      3,249     92.04        93.04           1,000 MT                      218
A-0S-SHA   Chougming ElectroplaingFacbty                   93.01                  4,000 unit                   2,012     92.06        93.01
A-0SA         pgning Wum  Machime Factory                  93.02                   130unit                     1.864     92.06        93.02            130unit                      534
A-07-SHA   Shag i No. I Subsidiary Glove Factory           93.01                100,000 dozen                  1,146     93.01        93.04         60,000 dozen                   1,459
A-S-SHA   Choagming AUlied Factoy                          93.06                 2,500,000 set                 7,230     93.01         93.1          1,200,000 set                  818
A-9SHA   Slagbgaibaag Smntelery & Fotmdy                   95.01                  9,000 MT                    11,467     94.02
A-10-Sl{    Shangai Jin-Yin Dyeing Silk Corption           95.04                14,000,000 unit               20,267     94.12
B-01-SHA   Shnghai Heo Textile Factoy                      94.04                7,005,000 m2                  12,172     93.02        94.01         10,000,000 m2                  3,033
B-02-SlHA   ShanghLiauning Chemical Fiber Beam Factoy      94.04                   960MT                      11,629     93.02        94.01           1,400 MT                     1,035
B-03-SHA   Sh_ghaiBaoi New StylePackg Matial Factoy       94.03                  4,000 MT                    14,623     93.1         95.01           4,000 MT                      411
B4         Shanghai Da Doug Chemical Fibre Company          94.1                  1,500 MT                     3,883     93.12        95.05           1,500 MT                     1,389
B-05-SHA   Shangai Yi ErBaoLactic AcidProdct Factoy        95.01                  2,000 MT                    11,276     93.12        96.01           1,500 MT                      454
B-OS-      Shsgair East Refligeatr Factory                 96.11                 100,000 unit                 52,734     95.05
TOel                                                                                                      315,940                                                            236,414
W



TABLE 4: INTEREST PAYMENT RECORD
(UP TO DECEMBER 31, 1997)
(US$'000)
Sub-                                                             1991                1992               1993                1994                1995                1996                1997
prject no.                  Name of Project                   Interest  interest    CIP    literest            Interest    CIP    Interest    CIP    Interest    CIP    Interest    CIP    interest
Payable    Paid      la        Paid      CEP      Paid                Paid                Paid                Paid                Paid
A-01-ABCA   Huazhen Reeling Mill                                                          S         8        20       20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20
A-02-ABCA   No3 Veterinary Phammfical Works                                              20        20        38       3S        38        38        38        38        38        38        34        34
A-03-ABCA   Chaepu City Radio Device Fatory                                                                 107      107       107       107       107       107       107       107       107       107
A-04-ABCA   Danyng Lap Factowy                                                                              58        58       201       201       201       201       201                 402       126
A-05-ABCA   JsagyiaColdRolingSbeetWoaks                                                110       110       110      110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110
A46ABCA        ym Onanil Ragent Work                                                                        40        40        43        43        41        41        41        41        41        41
A-07-ABCA   Cauhou No.2 Synthetic FaricMil                                                                  107      107       184       184       184       179       189                 373        38
A-09-ABCA   Jinu Veterinay Phancedcal Plant                                                                 22        22        41        41        41                  82                 123        21
A,09-ABCA   Nantong Specal SteePlant                                                                                            20        20       117       117       117       117       117       117
A-10-ABCA   ChapaRubberBelt ProductFactory                                                                                      37        37        44        44        44        44        44        44
A-l 1-ABCA   Zhbg_iaeg Gaofeng Foam Coucb Factory                                                                               90        90       120                 240                 360        22
A-12-ABCA   Yiang Sealig CoverFogg Factory                                                                                                           4         4       215       215       215       215
R-ol-ABCA   Danta Chemical Fibre M                                                                          67        67       116       116       116       116       117       117       117        51
B-02-ABCA   Do iCrysl Factoy (subloan req: S2.235m)                                                                            162       162       161       161       161       161       413         0
B-03-ABCA   Zbenjiang Second Bal Beaing Factoy                                                              71        71       122       122       123       123       123       123       123       123
B-04-ABCA   Thian GQule Meallurgical Plant                                                                   15       15        58        20       102                 170        15       198       198        00
B-05-ABCA   Zhngpagang Vacuum  Cosing Center                                                                                    97                 225                 354                 489
BD06-ABCA   Wuxi Sprays Dryas Plant                                                                         30        30        36        36        36        36        36        36        36        36
B-07-ABCA   Yin Card Jaket Plart                                                                            55        55        72        43       101                 174                 247        55
B9-ABCA    Wuxi Roll Works                                                                                  94        94        94        94        94        94        95        95        94        63
B9-ABCA   Yangziou Suzbiong Agriculhural Chemical Factory                                                     3        3        62        62        62                 124                 201
B-10-ADCA   Chushbou Turntable Eleectrial Motor Co.                                                                            103       103       127       127       127        55       218
B-13-ABCA   Chanpu Jiagan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mill                                                                         31        31        31        31        31        31        31        31
B-14-ABCA   L;yangNo. I CableFactory                                                                                            10        10       118       118       118       118       118       118
B-15-ABCA   Jmjiang Eklctricity PowerMachinery Plant                                                         6         6       190       190       186       186       188       100       276        79
B-16-ABCA   Yanghou Geral Daily Chemical Product Factory                                                     3         3        66        66        72        37       100                 174
B-17-ABCA   TaxingGls Factory                                                                                10       10        91        91        91        91        91        91        91        70
B-1-ABCA   Baoyin Coumty Rope Factory                                                                                          54        54        99        99        99        99       131        19
B-19-ABCA   Zhonggag Chemical Fibre Texile (Group) Co.                                                                         156       156       195       195       182        91       273       273
B-20-ABCA   Yangzbong Automobile Spare Parts Factory                                                                           156       156       195       195       182        91        90
A-0-CIBA    General Textile Machinery Plant                                             110                 190                270         2       300       172       207        33       320       320
A-02-CIBA    Jinghai CapacitorFactory                                                                                           69        56       196       186       199       199       208       208
A-03-CIDA    Su2bouTaican5bonglianCaZpetFaetory                                          10                  16                 60        32       107        96       143        12       211        12 2
A-04-CBA    Zhecnjiang Automobile Rim Factory                                                                4                 210         6       301        18       433         0       649         0
A-05-CBA    XinghuaMachintey Plant                                                                           7                  60        57        87        84        57        47        36        36
A-CIBA    Zbangjigang Polyester Fibre Filament Fatory                                                                            7         6       150        78       220       202       419       120
A-07-CIBA    Xisban Aluminum Factory                                                                                                                                                        30        30
B-01-CIBA    Wujing Silk Fabries Factoty                                                                                        28        18       143        70       147       110       203       203
B-02-CIBA    Hanjiang County Foring Equipment Factory                                                        9                  66        62        61        37        81        47       147       147
B-04-CBA    Gaoyou Braking Pats Factory                                                                      10                 69        61        99        20       205       143       313       313
B-05-CIBA    Zhenjiang Hats-Making Machinery Embroidery                                                      8                  50        17        74        35        82        12       700       700
B96CIBA    Wujing Telecommunication Equpment Factory                                                          1                 63        57       172       100       237        56       512       511
B-07-CIBA    Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                                                                   13                 139        94       119         0       245         0       371       147



Sub-                                                           1991               1992              1993               1994               1995                1996               1997
project no.                Name of Project                 Intet  Interest         CIP    Intar            Interest CIPP -_ Interest    CIP    Interest    CIP    Interest    CIP    Interest
Payable   Paid       La      Paid      CIP      Paid               Paid               Paid                Paid               Paid
B4-0-CIBA    Jingtan Spray Machine Plant                                                                 8                 33        33       25         6        44       25        44       44
B-09-CIBA    Rugao Glass Fibre Plant                                                                                                          51         0       101       51        92        9
B-IO-CIBA    Nantong Oil Pump Nozzle No. 2 Factory                                                       4                 36        33       44        37        37        0        68       29
B-Il-CIBA    Jintan Cloisonne Enanel Processing Factory                                                   8                31        19       32        20        34       21        37       37
Total                            0         0      258       138    1,133      855    3,757    2,954      5,120    3,429    6,345    2,872    9,625    4,877
A-01-JEDIC   GongzhulingDextrinFactory                             25       25        49       21        83               149                226                 312                408
A-02-JEDIC   Loing City Biochemical Factory                        45                167               328                510                713                 941              1,202
A-03-JEDIC   Gongzhuling Spin-on Filter Factory                                        5        5         8        8        4         4
A44-JEDIC   YanjiFoodPackingMaterialFactory                                           22                68        68       36        36       38        18        63       27        83       83
A-05-JEDIC   Jiutai Solvent Factory                                                   98               356                693               1,070              1,493              1,967
A-06-JEDIC   Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory                                                           26                 82        82       52        52        50       50        47       47
A-07-JPTlC    Gongzhuling Automobile Ornaments Factory                                                  102               352                664               1,007              1,382
A-08-JPTIC    Korean Nationality Aluminun Product Factory                                                                  70                212                 444                719
B4-1-JPTIC    Siping Yin Yuan Heat Exchanger Factory                                                    22                 98                306       306       196      196       197       197
B-02-JPTIC    Siping Auto Component Parta Factory                                                                          33                 102      102        65       29        98
B-03-JPTIC   Jilin #3 Auto Fittings Works                                                                                  31                  97       97        65       65        64
B-04-JPTIC    Liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Plastics Factory                                                                    13                 97        97       127      127       150
B4-5-JPIIC    Baicheng Plastic Product Plant                                                                                13                 38       38        21       21        15        15
B-06-JPIIC    Yushu City Tannery                                                                                            12                 36       36        21       21        21        21
B-07-JPTIC    Meihekou Light Industry                                                                                       17                 52       52        31       31        62        62
B-OS-JPTIC    Dehui Pipe-Joint Works                                                                                       14                 41        41        26       26        25        25        O
B-09-JPTIC    Chungcheng Rubber Pipe Plant                                                                                  15                 46       46        27       27        28        28       
B-10-JIPTIC    Panshi Non-Meta Industry Co.                                                                                                    13                 41                 71        71
B-I 1-JPTIC    Daan Lianhe Chemical Plant                                                                                   I1                 34       34        17        17       11        11
B-12-JPTIC    Lishu Yehe Fruit Processing Factory                                                                           19                 59       59        36       36        34        34
B-13-JPTIC    Baicheng #1 Plastic Factory                                                                                   19                59        59        19        19        5         5
B-14-JPIIC    Yushu Biological Products Factory                                                                             6                 49                 129       48       162       165
B-1 5-JPTIC    Lin Shang Hao Plyood Ind Deve'l Gen Corpn                                                                    9                 27        27                           43
B-16-JPTIC    Wanda Communication Cable Co.                                                                                82                254       254       164      164       129       129
B-17-JPTIC    Dunhuas Hua Kang Phar. Factory                                                                                                   78                244    243,5       130       130
B-lWPTlC   fian White Cement Plant                                                                                                             I 1                34       34        16        16
B-19-JPFlC    Yanji Xingti Plastic Products Co. Ltd.                                                                                           26                 92       92        72        72
B-20-JPTIC    Shuangyang Artificial Diamond Plant                                                                                              18                 56       56        36        36
B-21-JPTIC    Siping Hongzui Machinery General Plant                                                                                          145                451      451       217       217
Total                           70        25      340       25       992        76    2,284      121     4,565     1,320    6,170     1,536     7,395     1,364
A-01-SHA     Chongrning Feed Mill                                                     15       15       21        21       21        21       21         8        34                 56
A-02-SHA     GuanghuiAutomaticInstrumentFactory                                       10       10        14       14        15       15         7        7         2        2
A-03-SHA     Shangba Hua Hai Towel Fatory                                             35       35       46        46       46        46       46        23        65                105
A-04-SHA     Xintong Subsidiary.Factory                                                I        1       51        51       59        59       68        33       103                171
A-05-SHA     ChogSming Electroplating Factory                                                           22        22       27        27       26        26        is                 36                Z
A46-SHA      Chongming Wuxiao Machine Factory                                                            15       15       26        26       26        26        25                 49
A-07-SHA     Shanghai No. I Subsidiary Glove Factory                                                      I        1       21        21       20        20
A-04-SHA     Chongping Alied Factory                                                                    29        29       114      114       123      123       119       59       173
A-09-SHA     Shanghai Jibang Smeltery & Foundry                                                                             14       14       III      111       132       64       362
A-I0-SHA     Shangha Jin-Yin Dyeing Silk Corporation                                                                                          74        74       212      105       301
B4-1-SHA     Shanghai Hezuo Textile Factory                                                                                134      134      246       246       248       123      468



Sub-                                                            1991               1992                1993               1994               1995                1996               1997
project no.                 Name of Prgect                  Interest  Interest    CIP    Interest            Inteiest    CIP    Interest    CIP    Interest    CEP    Interest    CIP    Interest
Payable    Paid      h        Paid      CIP      Paid                Paid               Paid                Paid               Paid
B-02-SH       Shanghai Liamning Chemical FiberBeam Factoiy                                                                    25       25       143       143       190        86      193
B-03-         Shanghai Baoh New Style Pckig Mateia Factory                                                                   153       153      224       224       234                483
B44SH         Shanghi Da Dong Chemical Fibre Company                                                                          29       29       138       138       134        66      203
B-05-SH       Shanghai Yi Er ao  Lacdic Acid Poucts Factoy                                                                    83        83      242       242       243                306
B464HA        Shanghai Far East Refigeator Facy                                                                                                  38        38       110                226
Total                                      0        61        61      199      1"        767      767      1,553    1,482     1,869      50S      3,132        0
Toal                                                            70       25       659       224    2,324     1,130    61808    3,842    I1238       6,231    14,383     4,913    20,152    6,241
&ctPc a-wup



TABLE 5: PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT
(UP TO DECEMBER 31,1997)
(US$'000)
Contract
1992                1993                1994                 1995                 1996                1997
Sub-                      Name of Project                 CYLA  RP&  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal
project no.                                                                 Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment
A-01-ABCA   Huanzhen Reeling Mill                                 1.0   5.0                                                                    246                 246                  246        246
A-02-ABCA   No3 Veteinawy Pbarmaceutical Works                    1.0   5.0                                                                     50         50       150                 422        422
A-03-ABCA   Changsu City Radio Device Factory                     1.0   5.0                                                                                         500               1,504
A-04-ABCA   DanyangLamp Factory                                   2.0   4.0                                                                     78                  781               2,478
A-05-ABCA   Jiangyin Cold Roiling Sheet Works                     1.0   5.0                                                                                         500               1.263
A-06-ABCA   Jiangyin Chemical Reagent Works                       1.0   5.0                                                                                                             541
A-07-ABCA   Cbangzhou No. 2 Synthetic Fabric Mill                 1.0   5.0                                                                    300                 900                1,500
A-08-ABCA   Jintan Veterinary Pharmaceutial Plant                 1.0   4.0                                                                    100                 200                  556           0
A-09-ABCA   Nantong Spedal Steel Plant                            2.0   4.0                                                                                                           1,168       1,168
A-10-ABCA   Changsu Rubber Belt Product Factory                   1.0   4.0                                                                                        300                  616
A-1 1-ABCA   Zhangjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory              1.0   3.0                                                                    780                1,500               1,500
A-12-ABCA   Yixing Sealing Cover Forging Factory                  1.0   4.0                                                                                                             600
B-01-ABCA   Dantu Chemical Fibre Mill                             1.0   4.0                                                                    344                1,434               1,434
B-02-ABCA   Donghal Crystat Factory (aubloan req: S2.235m)        1.0   4.0                                                                                         447               1,304
B-03-ABCA   Zhenjiang Second Bal Bearing Factory                  2.0   5.0                                                                    258                  746               1,504        349
B4-ABCA   Taixian Granule Metallurgical Plant                     1.0   5.0                                                                                                             240        240      
B-05-ABCA   Zhangjiagang Vacuum Coating Center                    2.0   3.0                                                                    108                1,608               1,608
B4-6-ABCA   Wuxi Sprays Dryers Plant                              1.0   3.0                                                                                        414                  414        414
B-07-ABCA   YixinCardJacketPlant                                  1.0   4.0                                                                    100                 450                  811         51
B-08-ABCA   Wuxi Roll Works                                       1.0   3.0                                                                                       1,083               1,082
B-09-ABCA   Yangzbou Suzhong Agricultural Chemnical Factory       1.0   3.0                                                                    459                 776                  776
B-10-ABCA   Changzhou Tuntable Electrical Motor Co.               1.0   4.0                                                                                        420                1,290
B-13-ABCA   Changau riangnan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mil         1.0   4.0                                                                                        231                  431
B-14-ABCA   LiyangNo. I CableFactory                              1.0   4.0                                                                                        370                  840        600
B-15-ABCA   Jinjiang Eectricity Power Machinery Plant             2.0   4.0                                                                                       1,724               2,414        852
B-16-ABCA   Yangzhou General Daily Chemical Product Factory       1.0   3.0                                                                    517                 862                  562
B-17-ABCA   Taixing Gass Factory                                  1.0   3.0                                                                    733                1,138               1,138        434
B-18-ABCA   BaoyinCountyRopeFactory                               1.0   3.0                                                                    425                1,172               1,548        130
B-19-ABCA   Zhonggang Chemical Fibre Textile (Group) Co.          1.0   5.0                                                                    950                1,600               2,200
B-20-ABCA   Yangzbong Automobile Spare Parts Factory              1.0   4.0
A-01-CIBA    General Textile Machinery Plant                      1.0   4.0                                               804          0       962                 962        481                  481
A-02.CIDA    Jianghai Capacitor Factory                           1.0   6.0                                                                                        225        225       375        375
A-03-CIBA    Suzhou Taicang Ziongian Carpet Factory               2.0   6.0                                                                                         100                 450         69
A-04-CIBA    Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                     2.0   5.0                                                                                        213                  500          0
A-05-CIBA    Xinghua Machinery Plant                              1.0   5.0                                                                                        111         111      179        179
A-06-CIBA    Zmangiagang Polyester Fibre Filament Factory         2.0   4.0                                                                                                             200          0
A-07-CIBA    Xishan Aluminum Factory                              1.0   4.0                                                                                                             625        625
B-OI-CIBA    WujingSilkFabricsFactory                             1.0   6.0                                                                                        173         173      347        347
B-02-CIA    Hanjiang Conty Forging Equipment Factory              2.0   5.0                                                                                        252        252       252        252     ;t
B-04-CIBA    Gaoyou Bralang Parts Factory                         1.0   6.0                                                                    400        400      400         97      400         400
B-05-CBA    Zhenjiang Hats-Malang Machinery Embr-idety            1.0   6.0                                                                                        100         100      100        100
B6-CIBA    Wujing Telecommunicatioun Equipment Factory            1.0   7.0                                                                                        250        250       250        250
B-07-CIBA    XinjingSilk WeavingFactory                           1.0   4.0                           600          0    1,200        618       902        100      802                  802          0



Contract
1992               1993                1994                1995                1996                1997
Sub-                     Name of Project                CY!a  RP&  Pdncpal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Pdincipal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal
project no.                                                               Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment  Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment
8.08-CBA    rmgtan Spray Machine Plant                          1.0   4.0                                              50         50      100        100      150        75       75          75
B-9CBA    Rugao Gla  Fibre Plant                                1.0   5.0                                             118        118      118        118      118        118     257           0
B-10-CIBA    Nantong OilPnmp Nozzle No.2 Factory                1.0   5.0                                                                                     III        111      130          0
3-11-CIBA    JinbnaoisonneEnamelProcessingFactory               1.0   5.0                          50         49      101          0      201                 234        117      117        117
Totd                                          0          0      650        49    2,273        786    8,131        768   23,752      2,110   37,348       8,176
A-01-JEDIC   Gongzhuling Dextrin Factory                        1.0   4.0      100                282                 409                 409                 409                409           0
A-02-JEDIC   Longpng City Biochemical Factoty                   1.5   4.5                         264                 718               1,173               1,182               1,182          0
A-03-JEDIC   Gongzhuling Spin-on Filter Factory                 1.0   4.0        9         9       45         36       76         36                                                           0
A44-JEDIC   Yanji Food Pacidng Material Factory                0.5   4.5                           60         60      169          5      273                 362                362         205
A-05-JEDIC   Jiutai Solvent Factory                            2.0   5.0                                                                                                         636           0
A46-JEDIC   Baicheng City No.1 Shoe Factory                     1.0   5.0                                             109         36      218         55      327                436           0
A-07-JPTIC   Gonzhuling Automobile Onmb ents Factory           2.0   6.0                                                                  727               1,455               2,182          0
A48-JPTIC    Korean Nationality Aluminum Product Factory       2.0   6.0                                                                                                            0          0
B-01-JPTIC    Siping Yin Yuan Heat ExchangerFactory             1.0   5.0                                                                 433       255       978        454    1,524          0
B-02-JPTIC    Sipmng Auto Component Pas Factory                0.7   5.7                                               91                 273         91      455                636           0
B-03-JPlIC    lin #3 Auto Ftings Work                           1.0   4.0                                                                 151         18      343         24      518          0
B44-JPTIC    Liao Yuan Municipa No.2 Plastics Factory          2.0   7.0                                                                                       40         40      60           0
B4-5-JPTIC    Baicheng Plastic ProdutPlat    *                 0.8   3.8                                                                   76         24      148                201          60
B4-6-JPTIC    Yushu City Tannery                                1.0   4.5                                                                  59                 119         12      180         87
B-07-PTIC    Meiekon Light Inbsty                              0.5   4.5                                                                   84                 151                 217        140
B30JPTIC    Dehim Pipe-Joint Works                              1.0   4.5                                                                  18                 108                 199         93
849-JPTIC    Chungcheng Rubber Pipe Plant                      0.7   4.7                                                                   37                  98         27      182          9
B-10-JPTIC   Panshi No-Metal Industry Co.                      0.5   4.0                                                                                                                     295
B-11-JTIIC   Dasn Lianhe Chanical Plant                        0.5   4.0                                               48                  96                 145         84      176          0
B-12-JlPIC    LiAh Yehe Fruit Processmg Fatory                  1.0   4.0                                                                  53                 161         53      270          0
B-13-JPTIC    Biheng #1 Plastic Factory                        0.5   4.5                                               31                 152         60      272        151      313        102
B-14-JFYIC    Yushu Biological Products Factory                1.0   5.0                                                                                       66                 245        108
B-15-JPTIC    Lin Shbng tIo Plyood ind Devel Gen Copn          1.2   3.7                                                                   48         48      151        102      181          0
B-16-JPTIC    Wands Communication Cable Co.                    1.5   5.5                                                                                      290        290      730          0
B-17-JPTIC    DrmhuaEbuaKKngPhac.Factory                       1.5   5.5                                                                                      217        102      488        361
B-18-JFWiC   Jian White Cement Pant                             1.2   4.0                                                                                      72         23      145         35
B-19-JPllC    Yanji Xingti Plastie Products Co. Ltd.           0.6   5.0                                                                                                          177         48
B-20-JPTIC   Shuangyang Artificial Diamond Plant               0.5   4.0                                                                                       60                 145         36
8-21-JFIIC    Sipig Hongui Machinery Gnel Plat                 0.5   4.5                                                                                      602               1,205      1,000
Totd                                        109          9      651         96    1,651        77    4,280        551    8,211       1,362   12,999      2,579
A-01-SHA     Chongiing Feed MiD                                2.0   4.0                                                                  215                 215                215           6
A402-SHA     Gughui Automatic Intament Fatory                  2.0   4.0                           118                118                 118         38                  38                   0
A-03-SHA     Shangha Hua Ha Towel Factory                       2.0   5.0                                                                 331                 467         80      467          0
A-04-SHA     Xintong Subsidiary Factory                        2.0   4.0                          458                 458                 458                 693                693           0
A-05-SA      Chongming Electoplating Factoty                   2.0   3.0                                                                  351                 351                 351          0
A4 C         Chong g Wuxia Mahine Factoy                       2.0   3.0                                                                  262                 262         13     319          14
A-07SA       Shai No. I Subidiay Glove Factory                 2.0   4.0                                                                  212       212                                        0    t
A4-0-SA      Chogming AiedFctory                               2.0   5.0                                                                             50       712         60    1,139         21
A4M9HA       San g ibang Smeltery & Foundry                           3.0                                                                            358                 107      343          0
A-10-SHA     Shuinghas n-Yin Dyeing Silk Cportion                     4.0                                                                  44               1,766        124    1,024          0



Contract
1992               1993                1994                1995                1996                1997
SubI                      Nune of Pject                 CYI   RPh  Principal  Principal  Principal  Principal  principlPrncipda  Plincipal  Principa   Principal  Principal Principa   Principal
jwject no.                                                                Due   Rcpayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment   Due   Repayment  Due   Repayment
1501S IA   SMugai Hezuo Textile Factoy                         2.0   4.0                                                                                    1,720               1,S69         0
B-02-H       Sbm    iLiummagaicacmFibe DeamsFactory            2.0   4.0                                                                                      759        67    1,283         65
-03-         Soui DBoli New Styke P1ci  M      lmd Factoy      2.0   4.0                                                                                      492               2,496         0
B04-4H       Smgha Do Dg Ohmicl FiUbr.et Qpy                   2.0   4.0                                                                                     461        300      468         69
B45-HA Sb_A    ghl Yi Er 8ao Lactic Acid Proxb Facay           2.0   3.0                                                                            35S                 107                  106
846-SH       Shm"i For End Rdpigeo Factxy                             3.0                                                                                                        850
Tod                                           0          S       76          e      376         0    1,991      1,016    797          896   11,517        281
Told                                                                       1lo         9    1877         145    4,50        863   14,402       2,3    39,60       4,3    61,364       11,136
hCY- Coumer"a Yaw.
hR-Rpmmlrn



TABLE 6: BAsic DATA OF COMMERCIAL SUBPROJECTS
(UP TO JUNE 30,1997)
(Y'OOO)
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual
Subproject                 Name of Project                  Location      Total     IElA   Construc-    Start of    Total     rEL      Construc-       Start of    New/Existin TVE/Collecti
No.                                                                  Investment            tion     Operation  Investment              tion        Operation    g Enterprise   ve
Jiiang  - Agrkcltral Bank of China, Ji ngau Province Branch
A-01-ABCA  Huanzhen Reeling Mill                           Rudong          4,089.00     29    91.7-92.7      93.7    6,354.33       73     92.3-93.3         93.10. Existing   TVE
A-02-ABCA  No.3 VeterinaryPhannaceuticalWorks              Changzhou        6,541.00    96    91.7-92.7      93.8    7,680.00       80     91.7-92.7          92.11 Existing    TVE
A-03-ABCA  Changs City Radio Device Factory                Changsu         18,472.10    100    92.6-93.6     94.6   18,468.81      100     92.6-94.2           93.9 Existing    TVE
A-04-ABCA  Danyang Lamp Factory                            Danyang        55,940.00    750    92.6-94.6      95.7   21,098.00      400     93.4-95.9               Existing    Collective
A-05-ABCA  Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet Works               Jiangyin        16,635.00    150    92.6-93.6     94.6   17,565.00      350     92.4-93.6           94.1 Existing   TVE
A4-6-ABCA  Jiangyin Chemical Reagent Works                 Jiangyin        6,000.00     20    92.7-93.7      94.7    6,125.01       30     92.7-93.7           94.7 Existing    TVE
A-07-ABCA  Changzhou No. 2 Synthetic Fabrie Mil            Changzhou       19,533.00    80 92.10-93.10.      95.4   20,440.00       38   92.10-93.10         94.10. Existing   TVE
A-08-ABCA  Jintan Veterinary Pharmaceutical Plant          Jintan          6,450.00     29  92.11-93.11      94.11    3,208.68      20   92.11-93.12               Existing    TVE
A4-9-ABCA  Nantong Special Steel Plant                     Nantong        26,000.00    500    93.8-95.8      96.8   26,000.00      354     94.6-96.7         97.10. Existing   TVE
A-10-ABCA  ChangsuRubberBeltProductFactory                 Changsu         10,137.00    60    93.8-94.8     95.12    10,388.00     150     93.8-94.8           95.8 Existing   TVE
A-I1-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory         Zhangjiagang    20,410.00    64    93.8-94.8      95.12    12,290.00     15     93.8-94.8               Existing    TVE
A-12-ABCA  Yixing Sealing Cover Forging Factory            Yixing         81,746.00     30    95.6-96.6      97.6   81,010.00      230    95.6-95.10         96.10. Existing    Collective
IR-01-ARCA  Dantu Chemical Fibre Mill                      Dantu          25.927.00    250    93.2-94.2      95.6   40.996.59      300     93.2-944            94 7 Fxiqtinp   TV1p
B-02-ABCA  Dongbai Crystal Factory (subloan req: $2-235m)  Lianyungang    26,000.00     80    93.2-94.7      95.7   19,916.00       80     93.2-95.4               Existing    TVE
B-03-ABCA  Zhenjiang Seond Ball Bearing Factory            Dantu           18,388.00    425    93.2-95.2     96.2   16,400.54      131     93.2-95.2          95.12 Existing   Collective
B-04-ABCA  Taixian Granule Metallurgical Plant             Taizhou        21,850.00    300    93.2-94.1       96.1   43,100.00     300     93.2-94.7           96.8 Existing    TVE
B-05-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Vacuum Coating Center              Zhangjiagang    14,616.00    52    93.4-95.4      96.4   22,804.00       10     93.4-95.4               Existing    Collective
B46-ABCA  Wuxi Sprays Dryers Plant                         Wuxi             5,473.82    50    93.4-94.1       95.1    5,117.90      60     93.4-94.1           94.9 Existing   TVE
B-07-ABCA  YixinCardJacketPlant                            Yixin           9,249.00     150  93.4-93.10.    94.10.    6,519.50     150     93.4-94.3          95.12 Existing   Collective
B-08-ABCA  WuxiRoll Works                                  Wuxi            12,954.00    225   93.4-93.11     94.11    12,629.49    225    93.4-93.11           95.2 Existing    TVE
B-09-ABCA  Yangzhou Suzhong Agricultual Chemical Factory   Taizhou         9,980.00     30    93.6-94.6      95.6    9,170.69       15     93.6-94.8               Existing    TVE
B-10-ABCA  Changzhou Tumtable Electrical Motor Co.         Changzhou      26,300.00    599    93.6-94.6      95.6   14,308.20      320     93.6-94.7               Existing    TVE
B-13-ABCA  Changsu Jiangnan Synthetic Chemical Fibre Mill  Changsu          5,130.00    60    93.6-94.6      95.6    5,296.90       35     93.6-94.6           96.5 Existing   TVE
B-14-ABCA  Liyang No. I Cable Fatory                       Cha;gzhou      32,311.00     50    93.6-94.6      95.6   19,201.00      180    93.6-94.12           95.3 Existing   TVE
B-15-ABCA  JinjiangElectricityPowerMachineryPlant          Jinjiang       37,780.00    150    93.6-95.6     95.12    21,607.50     365    93.6-94.12          95.11 Existing    TVE
B-16-ABCA  Yangzhou General Nice Daily Chemical Product Factory  Jinjiang  12,000.00    100    93.6-94.6     95.6   11,188.15       80    93.6-94.11               Existing    TVE
B-17-ABCA  Taixing Glass Factory                           Taizhou         18,030.00    200    93.6-94.6     95.6   18,056.25      150     93.6-94.6           95.3 Existing   TVE
B-18-ABCA  BaoyinCountyRopeFactory                         Yangzhou       24,745.00    120    93.6-94.6      95.6   16,970.00       50    93.6-94.12          95.12 Existing   TVE
B-19-ABCA  ZhonggangChemical Fibre Textile (Group) Co.     Zhangjiagang    32,600.00    237    93.8-94.1      95.1   39,437.00      78     93.8-95.1           95.3 Existing   TVE
B-20-ABCA  Yangzhong Automobile Spare Pans Factory         Zhejiang        9,403.00     80 95.10-96.10.      97.6   49,438.70       60   95.10-96.10               Existing    Collective
Ilangu - China Investment Bank, Jiangau Province Branch
A-01-CIBA   General Textile Machinery Plant                Jintan          15,062.00    116    91.7-93.3     93.3   14,975.78      106     91.7-93.3           93.3 Existing   Collective
A42-CIBA  Jiangha Capacitor Factory                        Nantong        22,999.00    111    91.1-93.2      93.2   23,050.00      101     91.1-94.3           95.2 Existing   TVE
A43-C18A   Suzhou Taicang Zhonglian Carpet Factory         Taicang        26,540.00     50       92-93         95    28,628.22      50        92-95                Existing    TVE
A-04-CBA  Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                 2henjiang      28,594.54     75    92.3-95.5      95.5   18,707.97       75        92.3-                Existing    TVE
A-05-CIA  Xinghua Machinery Plant                          Yangzhou        7,646.99    130   92.1-93.12      95.1    7,686.76      106    92.1-93.12          94.12 Existing   Collective        _
A-06-CBA  Zhangjiagang Polyester Fibre Filament Factory    Zhangjiagang    18,938.60    50   92.4-93.12      94.2   18,938.10       50    92.4-94.1            94.6 Existing   TVE
A-07-CIBA   Xishan Aluminum Factory                        Xishan         51,460.00    500    96.6-97.6     97.12    49,606.00     500     96.S-97.6               Existing    Collective
B-1-CIBA   Wujing Silk Fabrics Factory                     Changzhou      40,500.00    200   91.5-92.12      93.1   38,000.00      190    91.5-94.1            95.8 Existing   Collective
B-02-C18A   Hanjiang Cotmty Forging Eqimpment Factory      Hanjiang        14,643.00    45   92.5-93.12        95    14,175.00      45     92.5-93.6          95.12 Existing   Collective
B-04-C1A  Gaoyou Braking Parts Factory                     Yangzhou       26,378.96    100    92.7-94.3      94.4   22,355.95      100     92.7-94.8          95.11 Existing   Collective
B45-CSCA   Zhenjiang HasMaking Machinery Embroidery Factory  Zhenjiang     4,607.00     80    92.1-94.2      94.2    4,714.00       80     92.1-94.6           95.2 Existing   Collective



Appraisal Estimate                               Actual
Subprojeet                 Name of Project                 Location      Total    IE/a   Construc-    Start of    Total      E Ae Construc-         Start of    New/Existin TVEtCollecti
No.                                                                 Investment           tion     Operation  Investment             tion        Operation    g Enterprise   ve
B-06-CIBA   Wujing Telecommunication Equipment Factory    Changzhou      21,428.00     30   92.5-94.5        96   18,542.00      30     93.1-95.6           96.5 Existing   Collective
B-07-CBA   Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                   Suzhou         19,550.56    100   91.7-92.1        93   23,293.00      100    92.5-93.5           93.6 Existing   Collective
B-S-CIBA   Jingtan Spray Machine Plant                    Jintan          9,183.00    100   92.3-93.5       94.8    9,250.00     100    92.3-93.11          94.8 Existing   Collective
B-09-CIBA   Rugao Glass Fibre Plant                       Nantong        11,315.00     52   93.5-95.5       95.5   12,436.75     52    93.5-95.7            96.1 Existing   TVE
B-10-CIBA  Nantong Oil Punp Nozzle No. 2 Factory          Nantong         9,661.00     50  91.11-94.6       94.7   10,453.50     50   91.11-94.8            95.3 New        Collective
B-I1-CIBA  Jintan Cloisonne Enamel Processing Factory     Jintan          4,606.00     97   92.3-93.8       94.1    4,580.30     97    92.3-93.10           95.1 Existing    TVE
Jdlin Province Trust and Investment Corpornfaon L
A-01-JEDIC  Gongzhuling Dextrin Factory                   Gongzhuling     8,515.00    120  89.7-90.12      92.12    8,510.00     120   89.7-90.12          91.12 New        TVE
A-02-JEDIC  Longjing City Biochemical Factory             Longjing           17964    219 91.4-92.10        94.1      18350             91.4-92.12              New         TVE
A-03-JEDIC  Gongzhuling Spin-on Filter Factory            Gongzhuling     2,433.00    107   91.3-92.3       94.3    2,800.00     110    91.3-92.1          92.12 Existing    Collective
A-04-JEDIC  Yanji Food Packing Material Factory           Yanji           3,980.00     42   92.1-92.12     94.12    4,100.00     42      91.7-92.1         94.12 New        TVE
A-05-JEDIC  Jiutai Solvent Factory                        Jiutai         34,950.00    370   92.5-94.5       97.5   59,190.00    250      92.8-97.6              New         TVE
A-06-JEDIC  Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory              Baicheng        8,955.00    308  92.3-92.12      94.12    3,873.00    300      92.8-93.8          94.6 Existing   Collective
A-07-JPTIC  Gongzhuling Automobile Ornaments Factory      Gongzhuling    31,627.00    288  92.12-94.12     97.12   40,160.00           92.12-94.12              New         Collective
A-08-JFllC  Korean Nadionality Aluminum Product Factory   Yanji          36,477.00    500   93.8-95.8       98.8   34,836.00               93.10-               Existing    Collective
B41-JPTIC  SipingYinYuanHeatExchangerFactory              Siping         36,133.00    268  93.1-93.12       95.1   31,613.00    270    93.1-93.12          94.12 Existing    TVE
B-02-JPTIC  SipingAutoComponentParts Factory              Siping         23,231.00    250   93.5-93.12      95.1   15,412.00    250      94.1-94.8               Existing    Collective
B-03-JTIC  Jilin #3 Auto Fittings Works                   Jiling         11,620.00    120   93.8-94.8       95.8    8,900.00     120   93.12-94.12         96.12 Existing    TVE
B-04-JPTIC  Liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Plastics Factory     Liaoyuan       19,465.00    400   93.1-94.12      96.1   26,895.00    400      93.4-95.4         96.12 Existing    Collective
B-05-JPeC  Baicheng Plastic Product Plant                 Baieheng        4,552.00     50  94.1-94.12       96.1    4,500.00     50      94.1-94.9          95.6 Existing    TVE
B4-6-JPT1C  Yushu CityTannery                             Yushu           4,284.00    120   93.8-94.7       95.7    4,227.00      80   94.1-94.11          95.12 Existing    TVE               I
B-07-JPIIC  Meihekou Light ndustry                        Meihe           7,482.00     57   93.6-94.1       96.1    5,650.00      57     94.3-94.9          95.8 Existing   TVE                0
B-08-JPTIC  Dehui Pipe-Joint Works                        Dehui           5,366.00    170  94.6-95.12       98.1    4,660.00     90      94.7-95.7         96.12 New        WE
B409-JPTIC  ChumgchengRubberPipePlant                     Changchun       7,133.00    115  94.2-94.11       97.1    5,950.00      85     94.7-95.4          96.6 New        TVE
B-10-JPllC  Panshi Non-Metal Industry Co.                 Panshi          4,567.00     83  94.6-94.12       96.1    2,945.00                95.4-              . New        TVE
B-1l-JPTIC  DaanLUanheChemicalPlant                       Daan            4,352.00     53   94.3-94.8      95.12    3,747.00      53     94.7-95.1         95.12 New        TVE
B-12-JPTIC  LishuYeheFruit Processing Factory             Lishu           7,949.00    126  93.11-94.11      97.1    7,000.00     105    94.7-95.9          96.12 New        TVE
B-13-JPTIC  Baicheng #1 Plastic Factory                   Baicheng        8,321.00     56  94.6-94.12       97.1    8,380.00     56     94.2-94.8           95.8 Existing   TVE
B-14-JPTIC  YushuBiologiealProductsFactory                Yushu          11,761.00    174  94.6-94.12       97.1    9,670.00     152  94.10-95.10          96.12 New        TVE
B-15-JPTIC  Lin ShangHaoPlyood Ind Devel Gen Corpn        Changchun       6,081.00     81   94.7-95.7       97.1    6,090.00     75    94.7-95.10          96.12 New        TVE
B-16-JPTIC  Wanda Communication Cable Co.                 Shulan         32,591.00    160   94.7-95.7       97.1   32,065.00     160    94.7-96.1          96.12 New        TVE
B-17-JPIC  DunhuaHuaKangPhar. Factory                     Dunhua         27,997.00    328   94.7-95.8       97.8   29,000.00    310    94.10-96.4          96.12 Existing   TVE
B-I8-JPTIC  JianWhiteCementPlant                          Jian            6,711.00    172  94.5-94.12       96.1    5,470.00     150   94.10-96.1          96.12 Existing   TVE
B-19-JPTIC  YanjiXingdiPlasticProductsCo.Ltd.             Yanji          13,911.00     67  95.6-95.12       97.1   12,480.00     40    95.10-96.6               New         TVE
B-20-JPTIC  Shuangyang Attificial Diamond Plant           Shuangyang      5,420.00     43   94.7-94.12      97.1    4,220.00     40     95.7-96.1          96.12 New        TVE
B-21-JPTIC  SipingHongzuiMachinery General Plant          Siping        110,580.00    314   94.4-95.1       96.1  111,000.00    289    95.5-95.12           96.1 Existing    TVE
Shanghai - Agrietulura Dank of China, Shanghai Branch
A-01-SHA   ChongmingFeedMill                              Shanghai        4,416.00    110   90.5-91.4  64%92.5    1,760.00       65        90-91        64% 98.5 Existing    TVE              >
A-02-SHA   Guanghui Automatic Instmument Factory          Shanghai        4,152.00    100   90.1-92.2  39%92.5    2,721.00       180       90-91        51% 92.6 Existing   TVE               I
A-03-SHA   Shanghai HualHai Towel Factory                 Shanghai        7,028.00    100   90.3-91.5  52% 92.6    5,723.00     320        90-91        80% 93.5 Existing    TVE
A-04-SHA   Xintong Subsidiary Factory                     Shanghai        7,804.00    440  92.1-92.12   48% 93.4    6,538.00    440        91-92        48% 99.2 Existing    TVE              z
A-05-SHA   Chongmsing Electroplating Factory              Shanghai        5,797.00    106  92.1-92.12   48%93.1    4,283.00                92-93                Existing    Collective
A-6-SHA   Chongming Wuxiao Machine Factory                Shanghai        4,071.00     53   92.3-93.2  37% 93.2    2,813.00      92        92-93        37% 99.5 Existing    TVE              -
A-07-SHA   Shanghai No. I Subsidiary Glove Factory        Shanghai        2,819.00     60   92.3-93.1  32% 93.4    2,862.00      95        92-93     43.5% 93.12 Existing    TVE
A-08-SHA   Chongming Allied Factory                       Shanghai       19,954.00    494   92.5-93.4  54% 93.10   22,772.00    480        92-93       54% 97.12 New        TVE
A-09-SHA   Shanghai Jibang Smeltesy & Foundry             Shanghai       26,102.00    234  93.8-94.10   39% 97.4   24,795.00    350          94-    Under Constr Existing   TVE
A-10-SHA   Shanghai Jin-Yin Dyeing Silk Corporation       Shanghai       87,343.00    315   94.6-95.1  57%98.10   64,071.00     285          95-    Under Constr New        TVE
B-01-SHA   Shanghai Hezuo Texile Factory                  Shanghai       49,065.00    175 92.12-93.12  50% 94.1       41800     600        93-94        15% 95.4 New        TVE



Appraisal Estimate                                Actual
Subproject                 Name ofProject. Location                       Total    IEa    Construc-    Start of     Total      IE/a     Construc-      Start of    NewlExistin TVE/Collecti
No.                                                                  Investment            bon      Operation  Investment              don         Operation    g Enterprise    ve
B-02-SHA   Shanghai Lianming Chemical Fiber Beam Factory   Shanghai        41,50S.00    120 93.3-93.12   43%94.1        20500      100        93-94        15% 95.4 New        TVE
B-03-SHA   Shanghai Baoli New Style Packing Material Factory  Shanghai     42,081.00    200   93.4-93.12   43%95.1   30,201.00      40        93-94       43% 98.12 New        TVE
B4-SHA    Shanghai Da Dong Chemical Fibre Company          Shanghai        21,310.00    128    94.2-94.9  57% 95.5   20,218.00     103        93-94        34% 95.9 New        TVE
B-05-SHA   Shanghai Yi Er Bao Lactic Acid Products Factory  Shanghai       38,295.00    250   93.9-94.12   53%96.1   49,169.00     250        94-95        53% 99.6 New        TVE
B3-6-SHA    Shanghai Far East Refrigerator Factory         Shanghai       151,006.00    250    95.3-96.1  66% 98.12    54,460.00   250          95-    Under Constr Existing   Collective
Total                                                                   1,964,962.57  15,248                       1,024,179.50   13,565
La IE = Incremental Employment.
k Formedy Jiiin Economic Dvelopment Corporation (JEDIC).
_t



TABLE 7: REFORM AND IMPROVEMENT PLAN
(US$'000)
Subproject        Name of Project        Amount of   Implementation             Problems              Suggestions for Improvement        Coordinating Units             Implementing Units
No.                                   WB Loan
A-02-ABCA  No. 3 Veteinary Pharmaceutial     473    Normal             Lack of workdng capital       Solve capital problem          Wujin Finance Bureau,          Wujin Agricultural Bank, Wujin
Plant                                                                                                                  Agricultural Bank, Science &   No.3
Technology Commission and local
goveriunent
A-03-ABCA  Chaagsu City Radio Device        1,503    Normal            Insufficient counterpart funding,   Solve capital problem, strengthen  Changsu finance Bureau,  Agricultural Bank, Changsu Radio
Factory                                                   fierce market competiton       marketing                     Agriculture Bank, Science & 
Technology Commission and local
government
A404-ABCA  Danyang Lamp Faetory             2,472   In loss            The fluctuatng exhange rate and  Strengthen marketing.       Danyang Finance Bureau,        Changsu Agricultural Bank,
automobile market have negative                             Agricultural Bank, local        Danyan Lamp.
influence. The plant is not very                             government
competitve in the market.
A-05-ABCA  Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet      1,263    Normal            Lack of counterpart fimding
Works
A-07-ABCA  Changzhou No. 2 Syntbetic        2,300    Normal            The production has not reached    Strengthen R & D, strengthen  Changzhou Finance Bureau,   Changzhou Agricultural Bank,
Fabric Mi                                                 designed capacity. The market for marketing.                 Agricultural Bank, Science &   Changzhou No.2
synthetic fibber is changing.                                Technology Commission and local
Production costs are increasing and                          govemment                                                           X
selling price is decreasing.
A-04-ABCA  Jintan Veterinary Pharmaceutical  556    Production stopped  No counterpart fimding. The  Solve problem of working capital. Jintan Finance Bureau,      Jintan Agricultural Bank, Jintan
Plant                                                     fluctuating international market has Improve efficiency and lower  Agricultural Bank, Science &  Veterinary
negative influence. Cost of raw    production cost           Technology Commission and local
material is going up.                                        government
A-09-ABCA  Nantong Special Steel Plant      1,468    Nommal            Late staut-up. Fierce competition in Solve problem of working capital. Nantong Finance Bureau,  Nantong Agricultural Bank
the market                                                   Agricultural Bank, Science &
Technology Commission and local
government
A-10-ABCA  Changsu Rubber Bet Product        616   In loss             Fierce competition in the market.  Strengthen marketing.     Changsu Finance Bureau,        Changsu Agricultural Bank,
Factory                                                   Lack of working capital.                                     Agricultural Bank, Science &   Changsu Rubber Belt
Technology Commission and local
government
A-IlI-ABCA  Zbangjiagang Gaofeng Foam       1,500   In loss            The cost of imported formulation is Work with foreign companies.    Zhangjiagang Finance Bureau,    Zhangjiagang Agricultural Bank,
Couch Factory                                             very expensive. The quality of the  Develop new products.    Agricultural Bank, Science &   Gaofeng
product can not meet standard.                              Technology Commission and local
There are too many alternative                              government
products in the market.
A-12-ABCA  Yixing Sealing Cover Forging     2,500    Normal                                                                         Yixing Finance Bureau,         Yixing Agricultural Bank, Yixing     Z
Factry                                                                                                                 Agricultural Bank, Science &   Sealing
Technology Commission and local
goverment



Subproject        Name of Project       Amount of  Implementation              Problems              Suggestons for Improvement        Coordinating Units            Implementing Units
No.                                   WB Loan
B-01-ABCA  Dantu Chemical Fiber Mill       1,434   In loss            The scale of investment is too  Solve problem of working capital  Dantu Finance Bureau,   Dantu Agricultural Bank, Dantu
large. Cost of raw material is                             Agricultural Bank, Science &   Synthetic Fiber
increasing.                                                Technology Commission and local
government
B4o2-ABCA  Donghai Crystal Factory (subloan   2,235   In loss         Cost of production is vety high.   Solve problem of working capital, Lianyungang Finance Bureau,  Lianyungang Agricultural Bank,
req.: S2.235m)                                           Market has changed.           lower production cost         Agricultural Bank, Science &   Donghai Crystal
Technology Commission and local
government
B-03-ABCA  Zhenjiang Second Ball Bearing   1,504   In loss            Counterpart funding has not been  Strengthen general management.  Zhenjiang Finance Bureau,  Zhenjiang Agricultural Bank,
Factory                                                  ready. Prices of raw materials are  Solve problem of working capital  Agricultural Bank, Science &  Zhenjiang No. 2
increasing very fast.                                       Technology Commission and local
government
B-05-ABCA  Zhangjiagang Vacuum Coating     1,608    Production stopped  The plant has not imported the full Solve problem of working capital. Zhangjiagang Finance Bureau,    Zhangjiagang Agricultural Bank,
Center                                                   set of testing and inspection  Strengthen marketing         Agricultural Bank, Science &   Zhangjiagang Vacuum
equipment. Quality of local water                           Technology Commission and local
is bad. Voltage of electricity is not                       government
stable.
B-06-ABCA  Wuxi Sprays Dryers Plant          414    Nonmal            Lack of working capital. Fierce    Solve problem of working capital. Wuxi Finance Bureau, Agricultural Wuxi Agricultural Bank, Wuxi
competition in the market.    Strengthen marketing          Bank, Science & Technology    Spray
B-07-ABCA                                    811   In loss
B408-ABCA  Wuxi Roll Works                 1,083    Normal           Lack of working capital. Fierce    Solve problem of working capital. Wuxi Finance Bureau, Agricultural Wuxi Agricultural Bank, Wuxi
competition in the market.    Strengthen marketing          Bank, Science & Technology    Roll Works                          '
Commission and local government
B-09-ABCA  Yangzhou Suzhong Agricultural     776    Production stopped  Lack of working capital. Changing Solve problem of working capital. Yangzhou Finance Bureau,  Yangzhou Agricultural Bank, the
Chemical Factory                                         market                        Strengthen marketing.         Agricultural Bank, Science &   recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
government
B-10-ABCA  Changzhou Tumtable Electrical   1,724    Production stopped  No counterpart funding. Products  Solve problem of working capital. Changzhou Finance Bureau,  Changzhou Agricultural Bank, the
Motor Co.                                                have very limited market demand. Strengthen marketing.      Agricultural Bank, Science &   recipient enterprise
Quality of products is not stable.                          Technology Commission and local
govemnment
B-13-ABCA  Changsu rangnan Synthetic         431    Normal           Insufficient counterpart funding,   Solve problem of working capital. Changsu Finance Bureau,  Changsu Agricultural Bank, the
Chemical Fiber Miul                                      fierce competition.           Lower production cost.        Agricultural Bank, Science &   recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
government
B-14-ABCA  Uyang No. I Cable Factory       1,471    Normal           Fierce competition. Production cost Solve problem of working capital. Liyang Finance Bureau,  Liyang Agricultural Bank, the
increases.                                                  Agricultural Bank, Science &  recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
govemment
B-15-ABCA  Jinjiang Electricity Power      2,414    Normal           Equipment can not reach its design Solve problem of working capital. Jinjiang Finance Bureau,  Jinjiang Agricultural Bank, the
Machinery Plant                                          capacity. Fierce compettion.  Improve efficiency.           Agricultural Bank, Science &   recipient enterprise                Z
Technology Commission and local
govermnent
B-16-ABCA  Yangzhou General Nice Daily       862   Production stopped The plant has changed project  Solve problem of working capital. Yangzhou Finance Bureau,  Yangzhou Agricultural Bank, the
Chemieal Product Factory                                 scope.                        Develop new products, develop    Agricultural Bank, Science &  recipient enterprise
new market.                   Technology Commission and local
govemment



Subproject       Name of Project       Amount of  Implementation             Problems              Suggestions for Improvement       Coordinating Units           Implementing Units
No.                                  WB Loan
B-17-ABCA  Taixing Glass Factory          1,138    Normal           Lack of capital due to the large    Solve problem of woddng capital. Taixing Finance Bureau,  Taixing Agricultural Bank, the
initial investment           Strengthen marketing.         Agricultural Bank, Science &  recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
govemnment
B-1S-ABCA  BanoyinCounltyRopeFactory      1,548   In loss           The quality of products has not met Solve problem of worxing capital. Baoying Finance Bureau,  Baoying Agricultural Bank, the
standard.                    Strengthen marketing.        Agricultural Bank, Science &  recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
govemment
B-l9-ABCA  Zhonggpng Chemical Fiber       2,500   Normal            Lack of capital for technical  Solve the capital problem.  Zhonggang Finance Bureau,     Zhonggang Agricultural Bank, the
Textile (Group) Co.                                     renovation                    Strengthen marketing.        Agricultural Bank, Science &  recipient enterprise
Technology Commission and local
government
A403-CIBA   Suzhou Taicang Zhonglian Carpet  2,262    The plant is a sup-  The enterprise needs more working Contact other automobile                        Investment Bank, the recipient
Factory                                plier for Citroen.   capital due to increasing produc-  manufacturers. In general, the                    enterprise
Sales are low   tion. Also, foreign raw material   market for auto trim parts is good
because Citroen did suppliers refuse to accept LC. The because car production has around
not produce accord- project is in loss. The enterprise   a 15% increase annually.
ing to original plan  relies on original products.
last year.
A-04-CBA   Zhenjiang Automobile Rim       2,366    The entrprise loses No counterpart funding. Can not  Ask for coordination from local   Local government, Construction   Investment Bank, the recipient
Factory                         .      10 million annuafly install locally made equipment,   government.           Bank                          enterprise
and has difficulty
repaying loans.
A-06-CIA   Zhangjiagang Polyester Fiber   1,789   The plant is well  It is not willing to repay loans.    Follow up closely with this type of Zhangjiagang Finance Bureau  Investment Bank, the recipient  0
Filanent Factory                       managed. It has                                enterpises. Convince them to                               enterprise
small amounts of                              repay loans. Take legal actions
receivable and                                when necessary.
payable capital
being utilized well.
B47-CIBA   Xinjing Silk Weaing Factory     1,520   The plant is able to                                                        Construction Bank             Investment Bank, the recipient
maintain minor                                                                                            enterprise
profitability while
most silk plants arc
in loss.
B-09-CBA   Rugao Glass Fiber Plant          610   The enterprise    It is not willing to repay loans.    Follow up closely with this type of Local government  Investment Bank, the recipient
expands very fast. It                         enterprises. Convince them to                              enterprise
needs large amount                            repay loans. Take legal actions
of capital.                                   when neceasary.
B-0-CIBA  Nantong Oil Pump Nozzle No. 2     376    Salea are down.                                                                                          Investment Bank, the recipient
Factory                                                                                                                                          enterprise
A-01-JEDIC  Gontgsuling Dextrin Factory     307   Normal            The plant has difficulty retuming  Collect loan in accordance with   County Government   Investment Company
loan.                        laws and regulations
A-02-JEDIC  Longjing City Biochemical       783   The plant has not   Technology is not mature.   Change technology and process   Science & Technology       China Science Academy
Factory                                started production                            conditions. Extension of principle  Commission. County Government
though installation                           repayment is approved.
of eqipment is
completed.



Subpoject        Name of Project       Amount of   anplementation           Poblems              Sugtons for Improvement          Coodinating Units            hnplementing Units
No.                                 WB LoA 
A-04-JEDIC  Yanji Food Packing Material    240   Sales awe very good. The plant ean not reach fill  Get enough woring capital.
Factory                                                capacity due to the shortage of
capilal.
A-05-JEDIC  iiutai Solvent Factory        1,627   The production line The instal1ation period is very long. Extension of principle repayment is
will be                                       approved.
commissioned soon.
A46-JlC  Baicheng City No. I Shoe          289   Production can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Get  Local government             Local bank
Factory                               reach fidl capacity. working capital.         sufficient woring capital.
A407-JlllC  Gongaluling Automobile       2,715   The plant has not   Lack of wo*lng capital     Get sufficient workig capital.    Local government        Local bank
Omaments Factoy                       started production
though installation
of equipment is
completed.
B-01-JPTlC  Siping Yin Yuan Heat Exchanger   1,084   Normal        Production cost is high.     Lower production cost. Improve   Invest company           Recipient enterprise
Factory                                                Profitability is low.        profitability.
B-02-lPIC  Siping Auto Component Parts     542   Production can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Get  Local government             Local bank
Factory                               reach full capacity. wo*ing capital.          sufficient woring capital.
B-03-WflC  Jun #3 Auto Fittmgs Wodks       518   Production can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Get  Local government             Local bank
reach ftll capacity. working capital.         sufficient working capital.
B4)4-JVIIC  Lao Yuan Municpal No.2         181   Nonnal            Production has not reached fill   Strengthen marketing    Local government             Local bank
Plastics Factory                                       capacity.
"05-JPTlC  Baicheng Plastic Product Plant  201   Normal            Lack of workng capital       Get sufficient working capital by  Local government       Local bank                          O
all means.
B4K6-JPTC  Yushu City Tannery              193   Pnoduction can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Strengthen Local government       Local bank
reach fill capacity. woring capital.          marketing.
B-07-JPTIC  Meihdrou Light Industry        289   Production can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Get  Local government             Local bank
reach fill capacity. woring capital.          sufficient worldng capital.
B-03-JPTIC  Dehui Ppe-Joint Works          234   Production can not Sales are not good. Lack of  Develop more products. Strengthen Local government       Local bank
reach fill capacity. wo*dng capital.          marketing.
A401-SHA   Chongming Feed Mill             215   Normal            Weak management. Fierme      Lower production cost. Develop   Houjia County            Recipient enterprise
compedtion. Selling price and  maket.
profitability are low.
A403-SHA   Shanghai Hua Hai Towel Factory    466   Sales are very good. Loan may not be retuined due to   Retum loan gradually according to County Finance, World Bank  Recipient enterpise
Major exporter in  the change of ownership.   the plan.                    Office, Agricultural Bank
town.
A404-SHA   Xintong Subsidiary Factory      693   Can only produce  Technical capacity is weak. Can   Recruit more technical people.    Xinshu County      Recipient enterprise
medium and low    not develop high quality products. Develop high quality products
grade products    Profitability is low.
A405-SHA   Chongming EleStrplating         351   Producion stopped The plant has difficulties returning Government will return loan for the County Finance, World Bank  Recipient enterprise
Factory                               due to technical and loan.                    plant.                       Office, Agricultural Bank
management
Problems.
A406SHA   Chogming Wuxiso Machine          262   Producion s not   The industry is in recession. Low   Strengthen maketing.  Wuxiao County                Redpient enterprise
Factry                                stabl Market is   profitability.
malL



Subproject       Namne of Project      Amount of  Implementation             Problems              Suggestions for Inprovement      Coordinating Units            Implementing Units
No.                                  WB Loao
A4-8-SHA   Chongming AUied Factoy         1,249   The plant can barely Serious deficit. Low profitability   Collect sales capital.  Shuxin County            Recipient enterprise
produce and sell
B-01-SHA   Shanghai Hezuo Textile Factory    2,503    The pant produces Technical and marketing capacity  Strengthen technology transfer.    Hezuo County    Recipient enterprise
and aeDs products  is not suffcient. Profitability is not Develop high quality products.
nomnaly. It has    good enough.
become a key
industrial enterpise
in the county.
B-02-SHA   Shaghai LUinming Chemical      1,754   Tbe plant produces  Technical and marketing capacity  Strengthen technology transfer.   Hezuo County       Recipient enterprise
Fiber ean Factomry                    and seDs products  is not sufficient. Profitability is not Develop high quality products.
nomally,         good enough.
B-03-SHA   Shanghai Baoli New Style       2,367   Poducts are made  Sales are only good in international Strengthen marketing  Datong County                 Recipient enterprise
Padcing Material Factory               according to     market. Products have not been
standards. The plant succesafild in domestic market due
has good potential. to the higb price.
B-0SHA    Shanghai Da Dong Chemical       1,350   First production line None. The plant has reached mass Lower cost of production.  Datong County            Recipient enterprise
Fiber Company                          commissioned     production. It has a very good  Accelerate utilization of capital.
successfully.    potential.
Second line buit.
B-0S-SHA   Shanghai Yi Er Bao Lactic Acid    2,456    The plant has  New products are not totly   Strengthen marketing         Datong County                 Recipient enterprise
Products Factory                       devWoped high    accepted by market. The plant
technology products doesn't have high profitability
successfully. The   though it has very good products.                                                                                        t
products have a
bright fiture.
B46SHA   Shngai Far East Refrigerator     1,663   Nomnal            Lack of capital               Get enough counterpart funding.  Zhongxing County          Recipient enterprise
Factory                                                                              Complete installation of production
line as soon as possible.



TABLE 8: FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (FIRR) AND ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (EIRR)
Sub-                                                          FIRR (%)                      EIRR (%)             Loan Amount
project No.              Name of Project                 Estimated       Actual        Estimated        Actual       (US$'000)
B-14-ABCA  Liyang No. I Cable Factory                       18.37          31.35          72.80          84.29          1,471
B-17-ABCA  Taixing Glass Factory                            40.20           8.41          67.40          24.01          1,138
B-19-ABCA  Zhonggang Chemical Fibre Textile (Group) Co.     28.13           2.90          19.20           1.47          2,500
A-06-CIBA  Zhangjiagang Polyester Fibre Filament Factory    41.39          27.10          29.52          26.63          1,783
B-02-CIBA   Huajiang County Forging Equipment Factory       48.83          20.98          42.56          28.70            684
B-01-SHA   Shanghai Hezuo Texitile Factory                  25.63          24.09          33             31.01          2,508
B-04-SHA   Shanghai Dadong Chemical Fibre Company           23.08          21.32          27.53          26.54          1,347
B-01-JPTIC  Siping Yiyuan Heat Exchanger Factory            41 6R          22.80          49.20          31.90          1,150
B-13-JPTIC  Baicheng #1 Plastic Factory                     24.90          21.30                         22.00            312
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   0
;JJ



TABLE 9: DOMESTIC TRAINING STATISTICS
Subeomponeot            Training courses                          Tramining contents               No. of trainees   Date            Place           Instructor            Trainee from
MIS             Design of MIS                     Technical advice regarding problems in MIS design       10          Dec-93    Beijing            Domestie        SSTC, SSTC Jilin and Jiangsu
Bureaus
Spark MSTrainng Worshop          l. Application of MIS; 2. Updated Development of MIS; 3.  40      7/31M U/194  Beijing           Domestic         Provincial Spark Offices
Computer Network Technology
MIS Upgrade Network System       1. Network System Management; 2. General Trouble         3          12/20/95    Beijing          Domestic         MIS system managers
Training Workshop                Shooting
JGF Jiangsu Case TVE Management                   General Management, Marketing, Finance, Quality Control,    480  10/21-10/28/96 Zhenjiang       Domestic         Spark Project Area, TVE
Study                                             Information, Data Processing, Investment Evaluation, Legal                                                       Managers
Issues in Technology Transfer, Rural Industrial Information
Management System Operation
JGF Hunan       Spark ProgWam Economy, Technology  I. Strategy for Sustainable Development; 2. Analysis of  45      6/29-7/3/96   Hunan Yiyang     Domestic and    SSTC Hunan, Spark and Environ-
nd Enviroment Proection Executive District Spark Prgram Development; 3. Technical                                                 International    ment related personnel
Triuning Workshop                Evaluation of Spark Program; 4. Environment Assessment,
Enviromnent Management, Envirnmnent Technology and
Enviromnent Education in Spark Program
Spark Ptoam  Economy, Technology  1. Strategy for Sustainable Development; 2. Development  0OO        7/4/96    Hunan Yiyang      Domestic and    Teachers and senior students from
and Environmental Protection     Planning for District and Metropolitan; 3. GIS                                                   International    Yiyang Construction College
Workshop
Spark Program   District Devdopment  1. Haoshan Disrict Spark District Development Strategy; 2.  14   7/5/96    Hunan Haoshan    Domestic and    Haoshan District CP Committee,
Strategy Seminar                 Haoshan Economic Development Strategy;                                                           intemational     Municipal and People's Represen-     g
tative Congress
Spark Program District Development  1. Is   and Forecast of Spark Program Development; 2.  21         7/6/96    Hunan Yiyang      Domestic and    Yiyang Municipal
Strateg Seminar                  Yiyang Economic Development Proposals                                                            international
Spark Program District Devdopment  1. Analysis of intemational and domestic economy; 2.  63           7//96     Hunan Qiyang      Domestic         Qiyang County CP Committee,
Strategy Seminar                 Strategy for Sustainable Development; 3. Qiyang County                                                           Govemment, People's Representa-
Economic Development Strategy;                                                                                   tive Congress, TVE managers
Spark Ptrgram Distriet Development  1. Anatysis of intemational and domestic economy; 2.  86          7/9/96    Hunan Shuangpai  Domestic          Shuangpai County CP Committee,
Strategy Seminar                 Strateg for Sustainable Development; 3. Shuangpai County                                                          Govemment, People's Representa-
Economic Development Strategy;                                                                                   tive Congress, TVE managers
Spark Program District Development  Yongzhou Economic Development Proposals               17         7/10/96    Hunan Yongzhou   Domestic         Yongzhou Municipal, Yongzhou
Stratea Seminar                                                                                                                                    Science & Technology Bureau
Technical       Indubi Project Technical Evaluation Technical Evaluation of Industrial Projects           34       7/12-7/30/93  Beijing          CtB              SSTC, other banks
Evaluation      Training Workshop
The Firt Industrial Project Technical  Tecinical Evaluation of Industrial Projects       31           9/1/94    Nanjing           Domestic         SSTC, Investment Banks, Consult-
Evaluation Training Wokshop                                                                                                                        ing Firms and Enterprises
The Second Industrial Project    Technical Evaluation of Industrial Projects              16       8/21-9/13/95  Tianjing         Domestic         SSTC Spark related personnel
Technical Evaluation Tramiing
Workshop
Technical       Tedcical Informatiom Management   How to orgamize ad operate TIS; How to offer TIS service  35        8/2193    Beijing           International    China Science & Technology
Information     Executive Training Workshop       to TVE; How to establish and manage information center;                                                          Information Research Institute,
local information research institute
Information Analysis and Processing   Commercial Information Service; Customer Analysis; Data  30   8/2-8/7/93   Beijing          International   China Science & Technology
Trainer Worshop                  Organizing and Packing; Case Study                                                                               Information Research Institute,
local information research institute



Subeomponent           Training courses                         Training contents               No. of trainees  Date            Place         Instructor            Trainee from
TnS Managemant Methodology      How to organize and operate TIS; How to offer ITS service  30   8/16-8/21/93  Beijing         Intemational    China Science & Technology
Training                        to TVE; How to establish and manage information center;                                                       Infonnation Research Institute,
local information research institute
Infoamation Analysis and Processing  Commercial Information Service; Customer Analysis; Data  30  8/16-8/21/93  Beijing       International   China Science & Technology
Training                        Organizing and Packing; Case Study                                                                           Information Research institute,
local information research institute
Training for Consulting Service  How to develop consulting service for centrl and local  40     9/1.9/11/93  Beijing          International   China Science & Technology
Developing                      information institutes                                                                                        Information Research Institute,
local information research institute
Training       Training Demand Analysis (1)                                                            7        5/16-28/92   Nanjing          Intenational    Nanjing Spark Training Base
Subprojects
Training Demand Analysis (2)                                                           5        5/28-6/5/92  Jiangyin        Intemational    Jiangyin Spark Training Base
Training Demand Analysis (3)                                                           7         6/5-17/92   Chongming        Intemational    Jiling S &T Bureau, Changchun S
& T Bureau
Training Demand Analysis (4)                                                          10        6/17-29/92   Changchun        Intemational    Science & Technology Bureaus
from Jiangsu, Shanghai, Jilin,
Hujiang, Zhejiang, Jiangxi,
Hunan, Anhui, Sichuan,
Guangzhou, Foshan, Changchun
and Jiangyin
P"tcipating Type of Training (1)                                                       13        4/1-22/93   Jiangyin        Intemational     Science & Technology Bureaus of
Jiangsu, Jiangyin, Jilin and Henan.  _
Chongming Training Center and       0
Liaoyin Xingcheng Training
Center.
Partpating Type ofTraining (2)                                                         4        4/23-5/5/93  Nanjin           International    Jiangsu Technology Development
Institute
l'ftidpating Type ofTraning (3)                                                        5         5/6-1793   Chongming         International   Chongming Science & Technol-
ogy Training Center
Participating Type ofTraining (4)                                                      5         5/18-27/93   Changchun       Intemational    Changchun Science & Technology
Personnel Training Center
Application of PC in Training                                                          8        8/15-9/4/93  Changchun        Intemational    SSTC, Jilin S&C Bureau,
Chongming Training Center
Trining Failities and Ther                                                             13       6/16-7/1/93   Chongming      Intemational     Chongming Training Center, S&T
Appliction                                                                                                                                    Bureaus of fJiangsu, Yangzhou
Jilin and hiangyin.
Application ofMultimedia                                                               8        6/20-7/10/94  Changchun       Intemational    SSTC, Jilin S&C Bureau,
Chongmning Training Center
Training Demand Analysis                                                              15         918-29/94   Chongming        Intemational    Chongiing Train Center, S&T
Bureaus of Jiangyin, Jiangsu and
Jilin, SSTC
Training Plan Evaluimon (1)                                                            10      10/27-11/9/94 Nanjing          Intemational    Chongmning Train Center, S&T
Bureaus of Jiangyin, Jiangsu and
Jilin 
Trning Plan Evaluation (2)                                                             10        3/1-15/95   Nanjing          Intenational    Chongming Train Center, S&T
Bureaus of Jiangyin, Jiangsu and
Jili



Subomponent            Training courses                         Training contents               No. of trainecs  Date            Place         Instructor            Trainee from
Science and Technology Project                                                        17'        5/9-21/96   Sanya           Intemational    SSTCSparkOffice,S&TBureaus
Managetnent Evaluaton                                                                                                                        of Inner-Mongolia, Shanxi, Hubei,
Erzhou, Jinmen, Xiangfan,
Yunnan, Guizhou, Guangzhou and
Chongqing
Application of Multimedia                                                             10        5/29-6/10/96  Changchun      Internatonal     ilin S&T Bureau, China
Agricultural Univ.
Applicadion of Video Facilities (1)                                                    12        5/8-11/96   Changchun       Domesc          Jilin S&T Infonnation Institute,
Changchun Training Center
Application of Video Facilities (2)                                                    5        8/12-14/96   Nanjing          Domestic       Jiangsu S&T Information institute
Application of Video Facilities (3)                                                    6        8/14-16/96   Changsu          Domestic       Changsu S&T Bureau
Applicton ofVideo Facilities (4)                                                       7        9/14-20/96   Chongming        Domestic       Chongming S&T Training Center,
Chongming S&T Infonnation
Center
Demmnst Tion of Cotton Chemical                                                        12       7/22-25/96   Zhenzhou         Domestic       Zhongmo Agricultural college,
Control Technology                                                                                                                           Hebei Agricultural Univ., Henan
Cotton Office
8/10-15/96   Huhehaote       Domestic        State Education Conumission,
Agricultural Colleges
Mied4cial-lectrical Joint                                                             5       9/25-10/23/93 Nanjing          Intemational    Jiangsu Technology Development
Development' Istuction Package                                                                                                               Institute, Nanjing Aviation           I
University 
5        1/10-20/94   Nanjing         Intemational    Jiangsu Technology Development      CI
Institute, Nanjing Aviation
University
5         7/4-16194   Nanjing         Intemational    Jiangsu Technology Development
Institute, Nanjing Aviation
University
5        12/8-21/94   Nanjing         International    Jiangsu Technology Development
Institute. Nanjing Aviation
University
5        3/20-28/95   Nanjing         International    Jiangsu Technology Development
Institute, Nanjing Aviation
University
-Household Electrical AppliancsW                                                       5       5/16-11/28/93  Chongming       Intemational   Chongming S&T Training Center
Instructon Pkge
10/6-11/28/93 Chongning       Internaional    Chongming S&T Training Center
"TVE Peaonel Management                                                                5        7/10-22/93   Jiangyin        Internaional    Jiangyin S&T Bureau, Jiangyin
Training Center
ORT Drawing Software Demonstradon                                                      8        10/8-14/93   Nanjing          Intemational    Jiangsu Technology Development
Institute, Changchun Training       Z
Center                               r
4        10/15-20/93  Chongming       International   Chongming Training Center
4         10/21/93   Jiangyin         Intemafional    Jiangyin S&T Bureau
5        10/22-26/93  Changchun       Intemational    Jil  S&T Bureau, Changehun
Training Center



TABLE 10: OVERSEAS TRMNING STATISTICS
Sub ponnt          Ttle of Training           Training Content         Date           Place        No. of                   Participating Agencies
B - Training   Advanced Education      Professional Skill Training    Jul-92      United Kingdom     8    SSTC Spark Office, Chongining World Bank Office, S&T Bureau
Subprojects    Management Tehnology    Management                                                         of liangyin, Jilin and Jiangsu.
Design of Training Method   Design of Training Method and   Oct-Nov-92    United Kingdom  10   S&T Bureaus of Jiangsu and Jiangyin. Training Centers from
and Manual               Manual for Advanced Education                                       Nanjing, Changchu and Chongming
Trdning Project Management Profassional Skill, Training  Nov-Dec-93   United Kingdom,   7    SSTC World Bank Office, Jilin S&T Bureau, Jilin Finance
and Cooperation          Management                                Germany and Israel        Bureau, Chongming World Bank Office and Nanjing Agricultural
Univ.
Application of Multimedia   Application of Multimedia   Jan-97       United States      7    SSTC World Bank Office, Jilin S&T Bureau, Jiangsu Training
Center and China Agricultural Univ.
C - TI       TI Consulting Service Study  Consulting Business In the U.S.:    11/23-  United States  8    China S&T Information Institute, Information Institutes of Jilin,
Subprojects   Tour                     Consulting Company            11/24/93                             Jiangsu and Chongming
Management
Training at DAI          Study Consulting, Management   12/95-2/96   United States      4    China S&T Information Institute, SSTC Spark Office
and Marketing
Training at Advansis Co.  Study project management,    12/95-2/96      Singapore        4    China S&T Information Institute, SSTC Spark Office
finance, contract and personnel                                                                                                 -
management
D-1- MIS     MIS Study Tour            Development of MIS             Aug-92       United States     8    China S&T Information Institute, SSTC Spark Office, Jiangsu
Subproject                             Technology; Application of MIS;                                ,   Spark Office, Jilin Spark Office
Service, Technology and
Methodology Applied by
Consulting Fjims
D-2 - Project  The World Bank Project  Project Evaluation, Management   Aug-92      Philippines      8    Jiangsu Agricultural Bank
Evaluation   Evaluation Training       and Post Monitoring
Subprojects
The Wodd Bank Project    Project Evaluation and         Jul-93        Philippines      16   Jiangsu CIB
Evaluation Management    Management



TABLE 11: MULTIMEDIA INSTRUCTIONAL PACKAGE
(US$ million)
Name        hnplementation institute  Cooperation partner  Date       JGF   Counterpart            Content              Purpose      Progress     End user
amount  funding
CNC Machine Tool Jiangsu Technology    Nanjing Aviation       9/93-12/96     53        140                                 Help machine Completed,   Machine tool
Development Institute  University                         50                                            tool enterprise need update  enterprises and
in better                 training
precision in              centers
tooling
Modified Starch   Jilin Training Center   JilinLight         611/95-9/12196    15      16                                  Improve starch Completed    Modified
IndustryDesign Institute                                                            processing    12/96       starch
factories,
technical staff
in enterprises
Cotton Chemical    SSTC Agricultural Dept. China Agricultural Univ.  9/95-2/96  56     60    Application of Chemical Control  Help farmers  Multimedia is Spark related
Control Technology                                                                            in Cotton Production         to leam this  ready        personnel and
technology                operators
TVE Personnel     Jiangyin S&T         Nanjing University      1994-1996     45        37    TVE Personnel Management      Supply       "TVE          Departments
Management        Commission                                                                  Methodology                  modem         Personnel    related to TVE       x
methodology  Management" personnel
to TVE       is published   management
personnel
management.
Household Electric  Chongming Science &  ORT                   4/93-2/95     46        20    Basic theory of household electric Training of   Completed    Training
Appliance Instruction Technology Training                                                     appliance. Maintenance of    electrical                 Centers
Package                                                                                       refrigerator, hair dryer, electric   engineers
cooker and electric fan.



-109 -                                     APPENDIX B
TABLE 12: EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
(US$'000
Subcomponent     Equipment Category                        Units      Source    Amount  Notes
B - Spark Training Computer, software and others             80    International   181   Chongming Training Center
Component        Computer, software and others              23      Domestic       990
Language Laboratory                        42      Domestic        19
Industrial Electronic Laboratory          405      Domestic        73
Video Processing Laboratory                67    International   270
Video Processing Laboratory                60      Domestic      263
Instruction Preparation Laboratory          6      Domestic       52
Industrial Material laboratory             10      Domestic       134
Textile Laboratory                         W/a
Computer                                   13    International    61   Upgrade of Multimedia Instruction Package
Language Laboratory                         I      Domnestic      20  Jiangyin Training Center
Teaching Facilities                                Domestic       12
Computer                                    6    Intemational     36
Printing                                    I    Intemational    248
PC Application Laboratory                  31    International     78   Changchun Training Center
Teaching Facilities                         3      Domestic      108
Video Processing Equipment                  6      Domestic    1,483
Instruction Preparation laboratory          3      Domestic      352
Language Laboratory                        42      Domestic       135
Automobile Vehicle                          I      Domestic-      196
Industrial Science Laboratory              W
C - Technical    Computer                                    13    Intemational    908   China Infoniation Institute
Information      Video Equipment                            141    Intemational    228
Component        Telecommunication Equipment                 Il    International   287
Computer, software and others              17    Intemational      71   Chongming Information Institute
Computer, software and others              13      Domestic        32
Video Processing Laboratory                 7    Intemational     47
Video Processing Laboratory                 6      Domestic      426
Instruction Package Preparation Laboratory  7    Intemadonal      40
Video Equipment                            29    International    136  Jilin Iformation Institute
Printing Equipment                         26        Both         640
Others(Automobile Vehicle                          Domestic      928
Computer Network Equipment                  I    Intemational     136  Jiangsu Information Institute
Video Equipment                             I    International   228
Offset Printing Machi: e                    S    Intemational    201
Others (Operational Facilites)                     Domestic       394
Computer Equipment                                                590  Training Expenses transfer from Nanjing to
Suzhou
D - MIS          Computer (Service Unit 1, Laptop 6 and others)    Intemational     84   SSTC Spark Planning Office
Subcomponent    Computer System Upgrade/TI System Expansion    7/b  Intemational    99
and Technical    Computer                                    40        Both        110  Jilin S&T Bureau Spark Office
Evaluation       OA Equipment                                 6      Domesdc       200
Subcomponent     Computer                                    40      Domestic    1,430  Jilin Trust and Invst Co.
Printer and Office Equipment               26      Domestc        380
Computer                                    2      Domesdc         66  Jiangsu Financial Intermediate
/a W - Withdrawn.
/b Six Pezitium Computers and one telecommunications system.



TABLE 13: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION, COFINANCED WITH JGF
(US$'OOO)
Bank CredittlGF
No.       Project name                        Project content                   Consultant     TAI    Civil    Equip-   Approval  Contract          Completion date            Notes
company    training  works    ment       by WB    signature
I  Spark Training         The project supplieconsulting and training facilities and  ORT England  794   1,756.40   1,723.6   92.1.29.   92.1.31. Completed in 4/95 according to
services. Thee training centers are established in Jiangyin,                                                     the contract
Changchun and Chongming to improve managing and
training skills of trainee. These center also sponsor R & D
for Spark Program.
2  Technical Information  The project has developed a network of infonnation     CIEC         299              3330.8   93.415.   93.4.26. Completed in 12/93 according
exchange for industries to get more updated technical and                                                        to the contract
commercial infoanation.
3  MIS                    The project supplies consulting and training facilities and  CEC   203.77             301.7    92.5.8.   92.4.31. Completed in 8/94 according to
services. It has established three MIS systems in State                                                          the contract
Science & Tehnology Commission and Science &
Technology Bureaus in Jiangsu and Jilin to improve their
managing capacity.
4  Technical Evaluation   The project supplies consulting and training services. It  CIEC     303.7             204.3    93.6.26.   93.7.2.  The implementation was
improves the technical evaluation capacity of people who                                                         extended for one year and was
implement Spark projects.                                                                                        completed in 12/96.
S  Spark Training         Continuation of Spark training noted in I.           ORT/Kehai      61.2                        96.2.9    96.2.2   Completed in 12/96                                 O
6  Consulting - Sustainable   The project seeks to improve skiUs of local consulting  DAI, El  99                        95.4.20    95.5.5   Completed in 11/96 according
Development Subproject  compames and to improve managing capacity of TVEs.                                                               to the contract.
7  Consuldting-Demonstration Coordinate and guding local consulting companiesonhow  DAI       51.2                       96.2.10    96.2.16  Completed in 11/96 according
Subipoject            to work in accordance with intenational standards                                                                 to the contract.
8  Improvmg Technical and   The projet supplieatechnical consuldmg sevice to Jilin  Beijing Dingli   20.3                96.2.10    96.2.12  Completed in 11/96 according
Mangng Capacities at   Longjing Factory, including a tedmic  renovation pronposal    Technical                                          to the contract.
Jiun Longming Biochemical and suggestion to improve production management.  Consulting Co.
Factry                                                                        Ltd.
9  Consuting Demonstradon - The prject demonstrates consulting skills by showing how    Beijing Jingye    12.0           96.2.10    96.2.12  Completed in 11/96 according
Shanghai Rongzi Cylinder to help a foreign company invet in China successfully.  Consuldting Co.                                        to the contract.
Factory                                                                       Ltd.
10  Marketing Decision Aiding Demonstrates the importance of marketming strategy and  Jiangsu Modem    15.6              96.2.10    96.2.12  Completed in 11/96 according
System - JSCC          Marketing Deision-Aiding System and how to develop   Enterprise                                                  to the contract.
such a strategy and system. It shows to the enterpises what    Consulting
fundamental changes they will need to make during the  Institute
conversion to market economy.
11  ConsulingService.      Atrainingnmanual, "Consulting Service for TVEs", is  Great Wall    23.9                       96.2.10    96.2.12  Completed in 11/96 according
Taining Manual         designed to improve the quality and capacity of consulting  Enterprise Strategy                                  to the contract.
services and to development the consulting market among   Research Insitute
TVEs.



Bank CreditIJGF
No.       Project name                        Project content                   Consultant     TA/    Civil    Equip-   Approval  Contract          Completion date            Notes
company    training  works     ment      by WB    signature
12  Spark - Programs Review   rhe design, implementation and impact of Spark program    Datu Engineering   100            96.2.9    96.3.6  Completed in 12196 according  Total amount of
are analyzed through the evaluation of the targets, policies,  Consulting Co. of                                 to the contract.            contract in Japanese
management, modality of implemnentation, and economic  Tianjin Univ.                                                                         Yen is 10,511,000.
and environmental impact. The future demand for the
program is also forecasted.
13  Hunan Case Study       The project has done a survey of environmental protection   Science Center of   75            96.3.27    96.4.9   Completed in 12/96 according  Total amount of
status of TVEs in the midwest. Personnl are trained with  SSTC                                                   to the contract.            contract in Japanese
advance management experiene from the World Bank.                                                                                            Yen is 7,875,000.
14  Chongming - Case Stuny   The project has done a technical evaluation of a rural  Forecast &  65                       96.8.9    96.8.15  Completed in 12/96 according  Total amnount of
SPARK project area, utlizing the successful results of the  Consulting                                           to the contract.            contract in Japanese
SPARIK TE project.                                  Institute of                                                                             Yen is 6,848,000.
Shanghai Univ.
15  Jiangsu -Case Study    The project reviews the SPARK program in local areas,  Jiangsu     67.7                       96.7.13    96.7.25  Completed in 12/96 according  Total amount of
promotes the use of knowledge gained from the program,  Intemational                                             to the contract.            contract in Japanese
andsifengthensthencn i   ffnitirig and!                                                                                                      Yen is 7,108,000.
Evaluation Co.



-112-                    APPENDIXB
Borrower's Comments Received from the Ministry of Science and Technology
June 26, 1998
We think the ICR on Spark Project assessed the Project reasonably and objectively
in general. The statistical tables and data are accurate.
We have some different points of view on Assessment of Outcome and Project
Sustainability for Enterprise Modernization component in Table 1- Summary of Assessment:
I1.   Assessment of Outcome for Enterprise Modernization component should be
"Satisfactory", not "Highly Unsatisfactory".
Besides objective of TA activities, the objective of Enterprise Modernization
component is accomplished in 6 years implementation: tapped new source of fund for
TVE; enlarged the scale and raised the rural industry to a new level; prompting TVE
technology progress etc. Many enterprises in the project grow up as pillar enterprises
in localities. Many examples show the project played fully the role of demonstration.
Only unsatisfactory issue- repayment - was resulted by current macroeconomics
background and legal mechanism problems in financial institutions and enterprises. It
is temporary situation and could be solved as the economic and financial reform
deepen.
2.   Project Sustainability for Enterprise Modernization component should be "Likely",
not "Uncertain".
In the view of development, the Spark subprojects satisfied the requirements of
adjustment of industry directions and the environmental policies of China. The
subprojects had high level technology. Sampling survey shows: 80% of them reached
the advanced domestic level, 19.35% were worldwide leading technology. Most of
the subprojects started from technological levels sharply more advanced than other
local industrial projects; accordingly, they possessed the ability for further
development on their own.
Most of the subprojects enterprises have good capacity to maintain their technology
level. The subprojects emphasized on new industries of materials, electronics, and
machinery It cultivated the growing points of economy. Its strategy conformed to the
trend of economic development and, therefore, increased the competitiveness in the
market. The construction scale and degree of modernization of most of the
subprojects were bigger and higher than those of the ordinary sole domestic Spark
projects.   These enterprises should have strong competitive capacity and
sustainability.



-113 -                         APPENDIX C
APPENDIX C: LIST OF SIJBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER
THE LOAN AND CREDIT
Subloan                                                  Actual Amounts Disbursed (US$)
Number                   Name of Subproject                 LN 3274         CR2186
JIANGSU-COMMERCIAL COMPONENT
ABC Jiangsu
A-01-ABCA   Huanzhen Reeling Mill                                               248,761.29
A-02-ABCA   No.3 Veterinary Pharmaceutical Works                                477,583.44
A-03-ABCA   Changsu City Radio Device Factory                                  1,503,492.55
A-04-ABCA   Danyang Lamp Factory                                              2,478,231.89
A-05-ABCA   Jiangyin Cold Rolling Sheet Works                                  1,263,775.92
A-06-ABCA   Jiangyin Chemical Reagent Works                                     541,157.83
A-07-ABCA   Changzhou No.2 Synthetic Fabric Mill                              2,307,746.97
A-08-ABCA   Jintan Veterinary Pharmaceutical Plant                              556,000.00
A-09-ABCA   Nantong Special Steel Plant                        1,468,119.27
A-10-ABCA   Changsu Rubber Belt Product Factory                  615,604.54
A-I I-ABCA   Zhangjiagang Gaofeng Foam Couch Factory           1,499,036.56
A-12-ABCA   Yixing Sealing Cover Forging Factory               2,534,898.23
B-01 -ABCA   Dantu Chemical Fiber Mill                                         1,434,000.00
B-02-ABCA   Donghai Crystal Factory (subloian req: $2.235 million)    1,456,000.00  779,000.00
B-03-ABCA   Zhenjiang Second Ball Bearing Factory              1,504,000.00
B-04-ABCA   Taixian Granule Metallurgical Plant                  540,058.00
B-05-ABCA   Zhang Jiagang Vacuum Coating Center                1,608,000.00
B-06-ABCA   Wuxi Sprays Dryers Plant                             413,835.00
B-07-ABCA   Yixin Card Jacket Plant                              811,000.00
B-08-ABCA   Wuxi Roll Works                                     1,082,635.00
B-09-ABCA   Yangzhou Suzhong Agricultural Chemical Factory       776,000.00
B-I0-ABCA   Changzhou Turntable Electrical Motor Co.           1,724,000.00
B-13-ABCA   Changsu Jiangnan Synthetic Chemical Fiber Mill       431,000.00
B-14-ABCA   Liyang No.1 Cable Factory                           1,470,861.00
B-15-ABCA   Jinjiang Electricity Power Maclhinery Plant        2,414,000.00
B-16-ABCA   Yangzhou General Nice Daily Chem Product Factory     862,000.00
B-17-ABCA   Taixing Glass Factory                               1,138,000.00
B-18-ABCA   Baoyin County Rope Factory                          1,547,706.00
B-19-ABCA   Zhonggang Chemical Fiber Textile <Group> Co.       2,500,000.00
B-20-ABCA   Yangzhong Automobile Spare Parts Factory             610,428.00     478,572.00
CIB Jiangsu
A-01-CIBA    General Textile Machinery Plaim                                    971,802.79
A-02-CIBA    Jianghai Capacitor Factory                                        2,492,108.02
A-03-CIBA    Suzhou Taicang Zhonglian Carpet Factory                           2,261,560.00
A-04-CIBA    Zhenjiang Automobile Rim Factory                                  2,383,032.14
A-05-CIBA    Xinghua Machinery Plant                                            647,000.00
A-06-CIBA    Zhangjiagang Polyester Fiber Filament Factory      1,782,570.53
A-07-CIBA    Xishan Aluminum alloy Plant                        1,274,600.00    1,225,400.01



-114-                          APPENDIX C
Subloan                                                  Actual Amounts Disbursed (US$)
Number                  Name of Subproject                  LN 3274        CR 2186
B-01-CIBA    Wujing Silk Fabrics Factory                                      1,000,000.00
B-02-CIBA    Hanjaing County Forging Equipment Factory                         684,300.00
B-04-CIBA    Gaoyou Braking Parts Factory                                     1,516,000.00
B-05-CIBA    Zhenjiang Hats-making Mach Embroidery Fact                        500,000.00
B-06-CIBA    Wujing Telecommunication Equip Factory                           1,995,990.00
B-07-CIBA    Xinjing Silk Weaving Factory                                     1,520,000.00
B-08-CIBA    Jingtan Spraying Machine Plant                                    300,000.00
B-09-CIBA    Rugao Fiber Glass Factory                                         610,020.00
B- 10-CIBA    Nantong Oil Pump Nozzle No.2 Factory                             376,370.00
B-I I-CIBA    Jingtan Cloisonne Enamel Processing Factory                      282,600.00
JIANGSU-PRECOMMERCIAL COMPONENT
ABC Jiangsu
A-01-ABCB   Changsu No.2 TV Set Component Factory                              132,415.13
A-02-ABCB   Gushan Boiler Auxiliary Machine Plant                              132,415.13
B-01-ABCB   Wuxi Scientific Gas Product Co.                                    200,000.00
B-02-ABCB   Changzhou Aohua Electric & Mechanic Co.                            200,000.00
B-03-ABCB   Changzhou Shenshida Special Pipe Factory                           200,000.00
CIB Jiangsu
A-01-CIBB    Changzhou Fanqun Dryer Plant                                      200,334.97
A-02-CIBB    Yangzhou Sanli Electric Appliance Company                         200,334.97
A-03-CIBB    Changzhou Golden Lion Chain Puller Plant                          198,750.07
A-04-CIBB    Gaoyou Env Prot Equip Mfg Factory                                 198,750.07
A-05-CIBB    Wuxian Special Refractory Plant                                   198,750.09
B-01-CIBB    Jiangsu Taigou Chemical Industrial Corporation                    350,000.00
B-02-CIBB    Changsu Qingfen General Textile Mill                              350,000.00
B-03-CIBB    Jiangsu Jinshi Group Corporation                                  350,000.00
B-04-CIBB    Changsu Jingcheng Chemical Factory                                350,000.00
B-05-CIBB    Changsu Special Welded Pipe Factory                               350,000.00
B-06-CIBB    Wuxi Daxin Food Additive Factory                                  350,000.00
JILIN--JPTIC
A-0 1 -JEDI    Gongzhuling Dextrin factory                                     490,000.00
A-02-JEDI    Longjing City Biochemical Factory                                1,243,919.30
A-03-JEDI    Gongzhuling Spin-on Filter Factory                                 72,222.13
A-04-JEDI    Yanji Food Packing Material Factory                               340,125.14
A-05-JEDI    Jiutai City Solvent Factory                                      2,457,678.64
A-06-JEDI    Baicheng City No. I Shoe Factory                                  421,127.90
A-07-JEDI    Gongzhuling Automobile Ornaments Factory           238,239.00     367,361.00
A-08-JEDI    Korean Nationality Aluminum Product Factory        113,614.00    2,649,386.00
B-01-JEDI    Siping Yin Yuan Heat Exchange Factory             1,150,176.98    416,823.02
B-02-JEDI    Siping Auto Component Parts Factory                521,202.42
B-03-JEDI    Jilin City #3 Automobile Fittings Works            500,863.22
B-04-JEDI    Liao Yuan Municipal No.2 Plastics Factory         1,498,524.07
B-05-JEDI    Baicheng Plastic Product Plant                     193,252.60
B-06-JEDI    Yushu City Tannery                                 183,044.85
B-07-JEDI    Meihekou Light Industrial Machinery Plant          298,848.47



-115 -                         APPENDIX C
Subloan                                                  Actual Amounts Disbursed (US$)
Number                  Name of Subproject                  LN 3274       CR 2186
B-08-JEDI    Dehui Pipe-Joint Works                             232,145.58
B-09-JEDI    Chuncheng Rubber-Pipe Plant                        258,299.00
B-10-JEDI    Panshi Non-Metal Industry Co.                                        207,000
B- 11-JEDI    Daan Lianhe Chemical Plant                        177,045.62
B-12-JEDI    Lishu Yehe Fruit Processing Factory                299,375.39
B-13-JEDI    Baicheng #1 Plastic Factory                        312,427.93
B-14-JEDI    Yushu Biological Products Factory                  589,481.95
B-15-JEDI    Lin Shang Hao Plywood Ind Development Gen Corpn    126,197.28      54,000.00
B-16-JEDI    Wanda Communication Cable Co.                     1,500,469.46
B-17-JEDI    Dunhua Hua Kang Pharmaceutical Factory             769,333.83     376,666.17
B- 18-JEDI    Jian White Cement Plant                           181,006.20
B-19-JEDI    Yanji Xingti Plastic Products Co. Ltd.             708,000.00      12,088.93
B-20-JEDI    Shuangyang Diamond Plant                           245,790.00      40,410.00
B-21-JEDI    Siping Hongzui Machinery General Plant             614,201.10    1,486,854.39
SHANGHAI-ABC
A-01-SHA    Chongming Feed Mill                                                215,191.19
A-02-SHA    Guanghui Automatic Instrument Factory                              155,618.61
A-03-SHA     Shanghai Hua Hai Towel Factory                                    465,946.62
A-04-SHA    Xintong Subsidiary Factory                                         692,759.80
A-05-SHA    Chongming Electroplating FactDry                                   350,391.73
A-06-SHA    Chongming Wuxiao Machine Factory                                   261,262.74
A-07-SHA     Shanghai No. I Subsidiary Glove Factory                           212,252.74
A-08-SHA     Chongming Allied Factory                                         1,250,101.78
A-09-SHA    Shanghai Jibang Smeltery & Foundry                 1,663,935.15
A-10-SHA     Shanghai Jin-Yin Silk Dyeing Corporation          1,406,249.08    1,094,741.83
B-01-SHA     Shanghai Hezuo Textile Factory                                  2,507,537.75
B-02-SHA     Shanghai Lianming Chem Fiber Beam Fact ($2.5m)                   1,754,946.11
B-03-SHA     Shanghai Baoli New-Style Packing Materials Factory  2,362,777.03
B-04-SHA     Shanghai Da Dong Chemical Fiber Company           1,345,685.77
B-05-SHA     Shanghai Yi Er Bao Lactic Acid Products Factory   2,445,461.89
B-06-SHA     Shanghai Far East Refrigerator Factory                            650,331.20
Total Amount Disbursed                                50,000,000.00   55,043,000.00



-116-                      APPENDIX D
APPENDIX D: AGRICIJLTURAL BANK OF CHINA-
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING
DECEMBER 31, 1994-96
(Y million)
1994          1995           1996
Net Interest Income                         2,694          2,917          3,206
Net operating income                        2,540          2,764          3,315
Net Income before income tax                  117           430            468
Income Taxes                                  64            237            258
Net income                                     53            194           211
Current Assets                            109,975        104,589       126,996
Medium and long-term loans                  6,441          7,101          9,213
Long-term investments                       2,499          3,640          4,352
Other Assets                                6,390          7,765          6,134
Total Assets                       125,305        123,095        146,695
Current liabilities                        75,109         85,345        105,818
Long-term liabilities                      45,716         33,672         36,661
Total liabilities                         120,825        119,017        142,479
Equity                                      4,480          4,079          4,216
Total Liability & Equity           125,305        123,095        146,695
Note: This information was provided by ABC from its annual reports. The 1997 financial
data were not available. As ABC was not able to provide any other information, no
attempt was made to clarify accuracy of these data, nor to reclassify categories.



-117-                                      APPENDIX E
APPENDIX E: CHINA INVESTMENT BANK-COMPARATIVE
(PROJECTED AND ACTUAL) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1990-97
(Y million)
Projected                                         Actuals
1990   1991   1992            1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Income Statements
Total Income                        772   1,063   1,367            856    882   1,095   1,765  2,635  3,359   3,983  4,206
Total Expenses                      556    762    978              737    766    697   1,624  2,524  3,237  3,606  3,824
Netlncomebeforelnc.Tax              208    285    368              119    117    125    141    III    122    377    382
IncomeTaxes                         114    157    202               73     71      76      82     66      54    169      55
Net Income                           93    128    165               46     45      49      59     46      67    209    327
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/duefrombanks                   716    584  .979                1       2      9      40      87     80    127    175
Current assets                     1,372   1,650  2,788          3,652  4,566   5,677  6,774  11,228  16,768 24,981  26,915
Investment Loans:
-local currency                   2,585   3,442  4,041          2,145   1,565   1,720  2,415  2,204  2,075  2,197  2,589
-foreigncurrency                  6,239  8,510  10,823           5,347  5,616  5,704  6,595  10,254  10,019  10,861  10,114
-Working capital loans                                           1,615  4,298   8,401   9,849  14,341  15,115  18,226 23,775
Total Investment loans            8,823  11,952 14,863           9,107  11,479  15,825 18,858 26,800 27,209 31,284 36,477
less: Accu. Provisions              573   1,003   1,553           109    109    228    377    531    534    569    655
Net Investment Loans               8,251  10,949 13,311          8,998  11,370  15,597  18,481 26,268 26,675 30,715 35,822
Long-termInvestments                 85    142    224               17     27      98    205    256    315    678  6,111
NetFixedAssets                      I1       19     36              16     28      34    126    199    297    364    416
Other Assets                        115    131    380             942   1,443  2,687  4,697  6,585   8,676  4,330  5,435
TOTAL ASSETS                       9,832 12,890 16,739          13,624 17,434 24,095 30,283 44,537 52,730 61,067 74,698
Deposits:                           472    599    770
-local currency                                                   939   1,652  4,044  7,511  10,349 18,787 27,815 38,544
-foreign currency                                                 928   1,331   2,090  2,133  3,645  4,805   5,333  5,116
Total current Liabilities          1,331   1,436  2,151          4,034  5,301   9,569  14,821 22,622 31,751  42,451  56,261
Long-term Debts:
-local currency                   1,320   1,420   1,520          1,356  2,854  3,567  2,011   2,561   2,153  2,401   1,159
-foreign currency                 4,955   7,538 10,441           5,245  5,622  5,992  7,030  10,284  9,373   9,350  8,588
Total Long-term Debts             6,275   8,958 11,961           6,601   8,476  9,559  9,041  12,845 11,525  11,751   9,748
Other liabilities                   280    260       53          1,059   1,703  2,906  4,243  6,259  6,518  4,259  5,766
Equity                             1,946  2,237  2,575           1,930   1,955  2,060  2,177  2,811   2,936  2,606  2,923
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY               9,832 12,890 16,739          13,624 17,434 24,094 30,283 44,537 52,730 61,067 74,698
RATIOS
CurrentRatio(X)                     1.03    1.15    1.30          0.91    0.86   0.59   0.46   0.50   0.53    0.59    0.48
Long-Term debt/equity ratio(X)      3.22   4.00   4.65            3.42   4.34   4.64   4.15    4.57    3.93   4.51    3.33
Total Debt/equity ratio (X)         3.91    4.65    5.48          5 51    7.05   9.29   10.96   12.62  14.74  20.80  22.58
Net Income/Equity (%/)              4.80    5.73   6.42           2.40   2.32   2.37    2.73    1.62   2.30    8.01   11.18
As % of total assets:
-total income                     7.85    8.24    8.16           6.28    5.06   4.54    5.83    5.92   6.37    6.50    5.63
-net income                       0.95    0.99   0.99            0.34   0.26   0.20   0.20   0.10   0.13    0.34    0.44
-administrativelother expense                                    0.04   0.13   0.06   0.20    0.03   3.20   0.12    0.09



-118 -                                      APPENDIX F
APPENDIX F: JILIN PROVINCE TRUST AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION-COMPARATIVE (PROJECTED AND
ACTUAL) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING
DECEMIBER 31, 1990-97
(Y million)
Projected                                           Actuals
1990  1990  1992  1993  1994             1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Income Statements
Total Income                         148   161   183   197   209               98   120   162   141    102   209   194   210
Total Expenses                       40    62    63    67    73                57    48    52    68    40    89    90   110
NetIncomebeforelnc.Tax               108    99   120   130   136               41    72   110    73    62   119   104   100
Income Taxes                          59    54    66    71    75               15    48    73    48    20    39    34    33
Net Income                            49    45    54    59    61               26    24    37    25    42    80    70    67
Balance Sheet Statements
CashJduefrombanks                    69    90   126   131   109               14    36    93   144   165   333   315   350
Current assets                      237   308   391   444   469              314   234   619   549   661   861  1,126  1,208
Investment Loans:
-local currency                   1,109 4,231  1,320  1,491  1,595         1,327  1,531  1,891  2,141  2,259 2,350 2,390 2,627
-foreign currency                     5    51    89    91    82                4    12    51       11   139   232   304   324
-Working capital loans              269   269   269   269   269              202   477   598   747   648   635   674   688
Total Investment loans             1,383  1,551  1,678  1,851  1,946        1,533 2,020 2,540 2,902  3,046  3,217 3,368 3,639
less:Accu.Provisions                 12    21    30    39    50               11    21      19    22    31        3     3      7
NetInvestmentLoans                 1,371  1,530  1,648  1,812  1,896        1,522  1,999 2,521  2,880 3,043 3,214 3,365 3,632
Long-term Investments                 19    26    31    36    42               27    24    36   108    16    19   128   126
Net Fixed Assets                     10    21    23    26    27                1      1      1      1    20    31    45    51
Other Assets                                                                   0    36    93   144   165   336   315   350
TOTAL ASSETS                       1,637  1,885 2,093 2,318 2,434           1,864 2,294 3,270 3,682 3,905 4,461 4,979 5,367
Deposits:                           447   457   478   505   528               171   277   349   480   588   607   613   667
-local currency                     447   457   478   505   528              171   277   349   480   588   607   613   667
-foreign currency
-other current assets                50    50    :50    50    50             301    54   636   567   274   230   172   301
Total current Liabilities            497   507   5:28   555   578             472   331   985  1,047   862   837   785   968
Long-term Debts:
-local currency                     105   147   142   112   101               51    37    18    18    24    13    13    52
-foreign currency                                                                                  15    69   206   451   522
TotalLong-termDebts                 105   147   142   112   101               51    37    18    33    93   219   464   574
Equity                             1,035  1,231  1,423  1,651  1,755        1,341  1,926 2,267 2,602 2,950 3,405 3,730 3,825
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY               1,637 1,885 2,093 2,318 2,434            1,864 2,294 3,270 3,682 3,905 4,461  4,979 5,367
RATIOS
CurrentRatio (X)                     .48  0.61   .74   .80   .81              .67   .71   .63   .52   .77   1.03   1.43   1.25
Long-Term debt/equity ratio(X)      0.10   0.12   0.10   0.07   0.06         0.04   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.03   0.06   0.12   0.15
Total Debts/Equity(%)                .58   .53   .47   .40   .38              .39   .19   .44   .41   .32   .31    .33   .40
Net Income/Equity (%)                4.7   3.7   3.8   3.6   3.5               1.9   1.2   1.6   0.9    1.4   2.3    1.9   1.8
As % of total assets:
Total income                        9.0   8.5   8.7   8.5   8.6              5.3   5.2   5.0    3.8   2.6   4.7   3.8   3.9
-net income                         3.0   2.4   2.6   2.5   2.5              1.4   1.0   1.1   0.7    1.1   1.8   1.4   1.2
-administrative/other expense      0.06   0.11  (0.14  0.17  0.21           0.04  0.13   0.06   0.20   0.03   3.20   0.12   0.09



