Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 17, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank 
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
Page  2
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are  made;
(D)
Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and 
Jiangsu Province, Jilin Province and Shanghai Municipality (the Project Provinces) and 
Parts A and D.2 of the
Project will be carried out by Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), China Investment Bank 
(CIB) and Jilin Province Economic Development Investment Corporation (JEDIC) (the 
Financial Intermediaries), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces a portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and of the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Provincial Project Agreement of even date herewith among the 
Association, the Bank and the Project Provinces and in the Financial Intermediaries 
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and the 
Financial Intermediaries;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking 
institution established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, including, inter 
alia, the ABC Documents;
(b)
"ABC Documents" means the Circular of the Borrower's State Council on the 
Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council 
Document No. (1979) 56); and
the Decision of the Borrower's State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank 
Functions by the People's Bank of China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council 
Document No. (1983) 146);
(c)
"CIB" means China Investment Bank, a state enterprise established 
pursuant to the CIB Charter;
(d)
"CIB Charter" means the Charter of China Investment Bank approved by the 
Borrower's State Council on December 4, 1981;
(e)
"Financial Intermediaries" means CIB, ABC and JEDIC, collectively, and 
"Financial Intermediary" means any of the Financial Intermediaries;
(f)
"Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement" means the agreement among 
the Association, the Bank and ABC, CIB and JEDIC of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement;
(g)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower;
(h)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of the Schedule to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement;
Page  3
(i)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a Financial 
Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(j)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(k)
"ISTIC" means the Institute of Scientific and Technical Information of 
China, an entity under the direction of SSTC, and any successor to ISTIC;
(l)
"JEDIC" means Jilin Province Economic Development Investment Corporation, 
established and operating pursuant to the JEDIC Charter;
(m)
"JEDIC Charter" means the Charter of JEDIC, approved by the People's Bank 
of China on March 19, 1988 (Bank Reply No. (1988) 112);
(n)
"JEDIC Policy Statement" means the Policy Statement of JEDIC approved by 
its General Manager on March 27, 1990 and as revised thereafter with the concurrence 
of the Association and the
Bank;
(o)
"Jiangsu Special Account", "Jilin Special Account" and "Shanghai Special 
Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, "Special 
Accounts" means the Jiangsu Special Account, the Jilin Special Account and the 
Shanghai Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means any one of the 
Special Accounts;
(p)
"Lending Procedures" means the Lending Procedures (on a Trial Basis) of 
CIB, approved by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance on April 2, 1983;
(q)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as  such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee  
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(r)
"Project Provinces" means Jiangsu Province, Jilin Province and Shanghai 
Municipality, collectively, and Project Province means any of the Project Provinces;;
(s)
"Provincial Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, 
the Bank and Jiangsu Province, Jilin Province and Shanghai Municipality of even date 
herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Provincial Project Agreement;
(t)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(u)
"Spark Program" means the Borrower's program to promote the development 
of a rural commodity economy by the introduction of modern scientific and 
technological knowledge into rural areas;
(v)
"Spark Program Policy Statement" means the Policy Statement on the Spark 
Program adopted by SSTC on March 25, 1990;
(w)
"SSTC" means the Borrower's State Science and Technology Commission, and 
any successor thereto;
(x)
"Statement of Operating and Financial Policies" and "Statement of 
Development Strategy" mean the Statement of Operating and Financial Policies and 
Development Strategy Statement of CIB, as approved by its Board of Directors in April 
1989 and January 1989, respectively, and as revised thereafter with the Bank's 
concurrence;
(y)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit relent or made available to the 
Financial Intermediary under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  4
(z)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by CIB 
or by any one or more Subsidiaries
of CIB or by CIB and one or more of its Subsidiaries;
(aa)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Project Provinces and the Financial Intermediaries, pursuant to Section 
2.02 (a) of the Provincial Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
(bb)
"Supplementary Regulations" means the "Regulations Supplementary to the 
Charter of China Investment Bank," approved by CIB's Board of Directors on October 6, 
1982.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-five million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR45,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i)
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by a 
Financial Intermediary on account of withdrawals made 
by an Investment Enterprise 
under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Investment 
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested; and
(ii)
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Parts B, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars three separate special deposit accounts in banks and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association
(including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment), to be known 
as the Jiangsu Special Account, the Jilin Special Account and the Shanghai Special 
Account, respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  5
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2010 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out its respective parts of Parts B and D.1 of the 
Project through SSTC 
and of Part C of the Project through ISTIC, 
all with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, economic and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces and 
Financial 
Intermediaries to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Provincial Project Agreement and Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, 
respectively, all their obligations therein set forth, shall take 
or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of 
Page  6
funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable them to 
perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the following approximate amounts out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Provinces 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the Bank: (i) to Jiangsu 
Province, $65,000,000; (ii) to Jilin Province, $25,000,000; and (iii) to Shanghai 
Municipality, $20,000,000.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts B, C, and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively): (a) in respect of Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project shall 
be carried out by Project
Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Provincial Project Agreement; and (b) in 
respect of Parts A and D.2 of the Project shall be carried out by the Financial 
Intermediaries pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account for Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  7
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, from time to time, at the request of any one 
of them, exchange views with the Association and any of the Financial Intermediaries 
on the interest rates to be charged by such Financial Intermediary in its lending 
operations in light of its cost of funds and profitability and interest and inflation 
rates in China and internationally.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces or any of the Financial Intermediaries shall 
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Provincial Project Agreement 
or the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the
Project Provinces or any of the Financial Intermediaries will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Provincial Project Agreement or the Financial Intermediaries 
Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The ABC Documents, the CIB Charter or the JEDIC Charter shall have been 
amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ABC, CIB or JEDIC, respectively, to perform any of its 
obligations under the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(d)
A change shall have been made in CIB's Statement of Operating and 
Financial Policies or Statement of Development Strategy or the JEDIC Policy Statement 
without the Association's concurrence.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of a Financial Intermediary or for 
the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Project Provinces and respective Financial Intermediaries; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Provincial Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Project Provinces, and is legally binding upon the Project Provinces 
in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Financial Intermediaries and is legally binding upon the 
Financial Intermediaries in accordance
with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Project Provinces and respective Financial Intermediaries and are legally 
binding upon the Project Provinces and respective Financial Intermediaries in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of   Amount of
the Credit  the Loan      % of
Allocated   Allocated    Expendi-
(Expressed  (Expressed   tures
   in SDR    in Dollar    to be
    Category      
Equivalent) Equivalent)  Financed
 
For Jiangsu Province:
(1) Sub-loans:
    (a) under     
21,770,000  29,540,000   
100% of
        Part A.1           
amounts
        of the                             
disbursed by
        Project                            
a Financial
Intermediary
    (b) under      
 2,500,000  ----------
        Part A.2
        of the
        Project
Page  10
(2) Goods for      
 1,390,000  ----------   
100% of foreign
    Parts B, C                             
expenditures,
    and D of                               
100% of local
    the Project                            
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Works for        
  540,000  ----------   
50%
    Part B of
    the Project
(4) Consultants'     
  450,000  ----------   
100%
    services and
    training for
    Parts B, C
    and D of
    the Project
    SUBTOTAL      
     26,650,000  29,540,000
 
For Jilin Province:
(5) Sub-loans      
      8,370,000  11,370,000   
100% of amounts
    under Part                             
disbursed by a
    A.1 of the                             
Financial
    Project                                
Intermediary
 
(6) Goods for      
      1,110,000  ----------   
100% of foreign
    Parts B, C                             
expenditures,
    and D of                               
100% of local
    the Project                            
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(7) Works for        
 510,000  ----------   
50%
    Part B of
    the Project
(8)  Consultants'    
 260,000  ----------   
100%
     services and
     training for
     Parts B, C
     and D of
     the Project
     SUBTOTAL     
     10,250,000  11,370,000
 
For Shanghai Municipality:
(9)  Sub-loans     
      6,700,000   9,090,000   
100% of amounts
     under Part                            
disbursed by a
     A.1 of the                            
Financial
     Project                               
Intermediary
 
(10) Goods for       
 970,000  ----------   
100% of foreign
     Parts B, C                            
expenditures,
     and D of                              
100% of local
     the Project                           
expenditures
(ex-factory
Page  11
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(11) Works for       
 370,000  ----------   
50%
     Part B of
     the Project
(12) Consultants'    
 160,000  ----------   
100%
     services and
     training for
     Parts B, C
     and D of
     the Project
    SUBTOTAL       
     8,200,000   9,090,000
 
    TOTAL         
    45,100,000  50,000,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Schedule to the Financial
Intermediaries Project Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (5), (7), (9) and (11) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1989; and
(c)
in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10), (11) and 
(12), until the contracts for consultants' services referred to in Section II (A) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have
been entered into in accordance with said Section.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its Spark 
Program to upgrade standards of technology and management in its rural non-State 
industries, through financing
of enterprise modernization in the Project Provinces, improving training for rural 
industry staff, improving information services to rural enterprises and strengthening 
the management of the Spark Program by national and local government officials.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Enterprise Modernization
 
Financing of projects under the Spark Program through Sub-loans to township and 
village level enterprises and county level collective enterprises in the Project 
Page  12
Provinces, under: (1) commercial terms; and (2) precommercial terms.
Part B:
Spark Program Training
 
1.
Upgrading management skills and training methodologies of Spark Program trainers 
and managers at the national level and in the Project Provinces, through: (a) 
provision of training, consultants' services and equipment; and (b) construction and 
equipping of training facilities in Nanjing, Jiangyin, Changchun and Chongming County.
2.
Undertaking a study of the long-term development of Spark Program training.
 
Part C:
Technology Information
 
Developing ISTIC's information network to provide more business-oriented 
information to township and village level enterprises through provision of training, 
consultants' services, and equipment.
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening the management capabilities of: (1) national and local level 
officials implementing the Spark Program; and (2) staff of the Financial 
Intermediaries implementing the Project, particularly in such areas as management 
information and technology evaluation, all through the provision of training, 
consultants' services and equipment.
*   *   *   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works for Parts B, C, and D of the Project
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, from at least three
different countries, where appropriate, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association and the Bank.
2.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank.
Part B:
Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out 
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
Page  13
contracts on account of which the Association and the Bank have authorized withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
A.
In order to assist SSTC and ISTIC in carrying out Parts B.1, C and D.1 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall enter into contracts for consultant services, for: (1) 
technical assistance required for
Spark Program training; (2) technology information; (3) management information 
systems; and (4) technology evaluation training, all with consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
B.
In order to assist the Financial Intermediaries in carrying out Part D.2 of the 
Project, the Financial Intermediaries shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
C.
All such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
SSTC and ISTIC shall carry out the national level training under Parts B, C and 
D.1 of the Project in accordance with training programs agreed with the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall inform the Association prior to revising the Spark Program 
Policy Statement.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the study under Part B.2 of the Project under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, by December 31, 1993; and (b) upon 
completion, review the results of such study with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the Jiangsu Special 
Account, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4); (ii) for the Jilin Special Account, 
Categories (5), (6), (7) and (8); and (iii) for the Shanghai Special Account, 
Categories (9), (10), (11) and (12), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) for 
the Jiangsu Special Account, $3,600,000; (ii) for the Jilin Special Account, 
$1,400,000; and (iii) for the Shanghai Special Account, $1,100,000, all to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and 
(d)
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2(b) of the Schedule to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Accounts 
Page  14
before the Association or the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify 
as eligible expenditures only if the Association shall subsequently authorize such 
withdrawals.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests  for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount  of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or  requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in said Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of said 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall  have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and  the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories for said Special Account, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan  Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the respective Parts of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association 
Page  15
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"15. The term 'Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement' has the 
meaning set forth in 
paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement."
(3)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of the Schedule to 
the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, the Association shall, in 
respect of any portion of the Credit: 
(i) have received no applications or requests 
permitted under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said 
paragraph; or (ii) have denied 
any such applications or requests, the Association may, by notice  to the Borrower, 
terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount 
or portion 
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of 
the Credit shall be 
cancelled."
