Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3274-CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
and
JILIN PROVINCE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Dated January 17, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3274-CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC), CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB) and JILIN PROVINCE 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT CORPORATION (JEDIC) (the Financial Intermediaries).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR45,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Financial Intermediaries agree to 
Page  2
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement 
and that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in the Provincial Project Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Financial Intermediaries 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement, and that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in the Provincial Project Agreement;
(C)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Project 
Provinces and the Financial Intermediaries, a portion of the proceeds of the credit 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Financial 
Intermediaries on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; 
and
WHEREAS the Financial Intermediaries, in consideration of the Association's 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's 
entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the
Financial Intermediaries
Section 2.01. Each of the Financial Intermediaries declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its respective part of Parts A and D.2 of 
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial 
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with: (a) for ABC, the ABC 
Documents; (b) for CIB, the CIB Charter, Supplementary Regulations, Statement of 
Operating and Financial Policies, Statement of Development Strategy and Lending 
Procedures; and (c) for JEDIC, the JEDIC Charter and the
JEDIC Policy Statement.
Section 2.02. Each of the Financial Intermediaries undertakes that, unless the 
Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of 
the Association and the Bank and of such Financial Intermediary; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve 
the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the consultants' services required for Part D.2 of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
Page  3
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement and its respective parts of Parts A and D.2 of the 
Project.
Section 2.05. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall duly perform all its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association 
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Financial Intermediary shall take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving 
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of the 
Provincial Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall, at the request of 
the Association or the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with 
regard to the progress of its respective part of Parts A and D.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit 
and the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall promptly inform the 
Association and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of its respective part of Parts A and D.2 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by such 
Financial Intermediary  of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall carry out the training 
under Part D.2 of the Project in accordance with a training program agreed with the 
Association and the Bank.
Section 2.08. From time to time, at the request of any one of them, the 
Association and the Bank, the Borrower and any Financial Intermediary shall exchange 
views on the interest rates to be charged by such Financial Intermediary in its 
lending operations in light of its cost of funds and profitability and interest and 
inflation rates in China and internationally.
(b)
From time to time, at the request of any one of them, the Association, 
the Bank, ABC and CIB shall exchange views on the adequacy of the exchange risk fee to 
be charged in Jiangsu pursuant to paragraph 1 (d) of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) CIB shall exchange views with the Association and the Bank on 
any proposal to modify its Charter, Supplementary Regulations, Statement of Operating 
and Financial Policies, Statement of Development Strategy or Lending Procedures.
(b)
ABC shall inform the Association and the Bank of any changes in the laws 
of the Borrower applicable to ABC, including the ABC Documents, which relate to the 
ability of ABC to carry out the
Project.
(c)
JEDIC shall exchange views with and the Association and the Bank on any 
proposal to modify the JEDIC Charter or the JEDIC Policy Statement.
Section 2.10. If CIB establishes or acquires any Subsidiary, CIB shall cause 
such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of CIB under this Agreement to 
the extent to which such obligations shall or may be made applicable thereto, as 
though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall maintain procedures 
and records adequate: (i) to monitor and record the progress of its respective parts 
of the Project and of each of
its respective Investment Projects (including the cost and the benefits to be derived 
from it); and (ii) to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of such Financial 
Intermediary, or, in the case of ABC, of its provincial branches in Jiangsu Province 
and Shanghai Municipality.
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall:
 
(i)
have the Project accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) above 
and its records, 
accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) 
referred to in paragraph (a)(ii) above for each 
fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank, as soon as available but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such 
year as so audited; (B) the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and (C) in the case of ABC, the 
Financial 
Statements (balance sheet and statement of 
income and expenses) for ABC's total 
operations; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as 
well as the audit thereof as the 
Association and the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB 
shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurrence of 
such debt, the aggregate principal amount of the consolidated debt of CIB and all its 
Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times the 
consolidated capital and surplus of CIB and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of 
this Section:
(a)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CIB or any Subsidiary maturing 
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to
the extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pursuant to such contract 
or agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent 
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)
Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of Renminbi, debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made 
at the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
(d)
The term "consolidated debt of CIB and all its Subsidiaries" means the 
total amount of debt of CIB and all its Subsidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by CIB 
to any Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary to CIB or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii) 
debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e)
The term "consolidated capital and surplus of CIB and all its 
Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, 
surplus and free reserves of CIB and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom 
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of CIB in any Subsidiary, or of any 
Page  5
such Subsidiary in CIB or in any other Subsidiary; and (ii) such amount of any other 
loan which the Association and the Bank may determine to be included in the 
consolidated capital and surplus of CIB.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB 
shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt 
of CIB which, in the judgment of the Association and the Bank, would materially affect 
CIB's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.04. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall take such steps 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself 
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the 
various currencies (including Renminbi) used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date  upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and of the Financial Intermediaries thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of 
the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate; or
 
(ii)
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Financial Intermediaries thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated 
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
25 Fuxing Road
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
1053
22017 ABC CN
Beijing
For CIB:
China Investment Bank
Jingtong Hotel
No. 27-B Wan Shou Road (South)
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
2122
22537 CIB CN
Beijing
For JEDIC:
Jilin Province Economic
Development Investment Corporation
No. 1 Songjiang Road, Stalin Street
Changchun
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Facsimile:
 
1918
35372
Changchun
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Financial 
Intermediary, may be taken or
executed by its President or in the case of JEDIC, its General Manager, or by such 
other person or persons as such officials shall designate in writing, and such 
Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to  the 
Financial Intermediaries and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not 
have terminated prior to the
termination of the Loan Agreement:
Page  7
(a)
the obligations of the Financial Intermediaries to consult with, and to 
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank 
shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is 
rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Financial Intermediaries shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals  or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name and on behalf 
of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
JILIN PROVINCE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   INVESTMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
Major Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
 
(a)
Sub-loans under Part A.1 of the Project shall bear interest on the 
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a variable rate which 
shall be: (i) for foreign currency
Sub-loans, at a rate not less than the variable rate payable under Section 2.05 of the 
Loan Agreement, plus a spread of at least 2%; and (ii) for Renminbi Sub-loans, at 
least equal to the prevailing minimum rate for fixed asset loans to township 
enterprises published by the People's Bank of China.
(b)
Commitment charges shall be paid on the undisbursed balance of Sub-loans 
under Part A.1 of the Project at the rate of 0.75% per annum.
Page  8
(c)
Repayment periods for Sub-loans shall not normally exceed seven years, 
and in any case shall not exceed twelve years, including an appropriate period of 
grace.
(d)
For foreign currency Sub-loans, Investment Enterprises shall bear the 
foreign exchange risk between the dollar and the Renminbi only. Each Investment 
Enterprise shall pay to the Financial
Intermediary an annual exchange risk fee of at least 0.5% per annum not to exceed 2% 
per annum. The exchange risk fee shall be set in Jilin and Shanghai by the respective 
Project Province under Section
2.02 (a) (vii) of the Provincial Project Agreement and, in Jiangsu, by the Financial 
Intermediary. For Renminbi Sub-loans, Investment Enterprises shall repay in Renminbi 
and bear no foreign exchange risk.
(e)
The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans from all Financial Intermediaries 
made to an Investment Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000 for 
Part A.1 of the Project and $200,000 for Part A.2 of the Project.
(f)
Sub-loans shall not exceed the greater of: (A) 100% of actual foreign 
exchange expenditures for imported equipment and services; or (B) 50% of total 
Investment Project cost (excluding the cost of land). The Investment Enterprise shall 
finance at least 20% of the costs of the Investment Project, and normally 30%.
(g)
Investment Projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall have minimum 
financial and economic rates of return of 12%. Economic rate of return calculations 
shall be prepared at least for all
Investment Projects where the proposed Sub-loan would exceed $300,000.
(h)
All Investment Projects shall have been approved in accordance with 
paragraph 1 (a) of the Schedule to the Provincial Project Agreement.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association or the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association or the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Association or the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association or the Bank shall 
have received the request and information required under paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
(i)
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan 
Agreement and this 
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan for an Investment Project in 
an amount to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan which shall 
not exceed 
the sum of $2,500,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding 
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
and 
the Loan, the foregoing amount being subject to change from 
time to time as 
determined by the Association and the Bank.
 
(ii)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(i) above, the 
first four Sub-loans 
proposed to be made by each Financial 
Intermediary under Part A.1 of the Project 
and the first four 
Sub-loans proposed to be made by ABC and by CIB, respectively, 
under Part A.2 of the Project shall not be eligible to be free-limit Sub-loans. 
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the 
Association and the Bank for approval, each Financial Intermediary shall furnish to 
the Association and the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Association 
and the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an 
Page  9
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan; 
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Association and 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by each Financial Intermediary for authorization to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit 
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the 
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan; and (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association and 
the Bank on or before June 30, 1993.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby each Financial Intermediary shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Bank 
and such Financial Intermediary, including, in the case of any Sub-loan, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Investment Project and shall be procured as follows:
(i)
goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Association 
and the Bank, under contracts awarded on the basis of 
price quotations solicited 
from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for 
Procurement 
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 
1985, except that proprietary items may be procured through direct negotiations 
with the suppliers;
(ii)
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank; 
and
(iii)
technical services shall be obtained directly from qualified and 
experienced specialists;
 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association and 
the Bank if the Association and the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants 
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable 
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association and the Bank or the 
Financial Intermediary shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
Page  10
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to 
perform its obligations under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
