Page  1
August 5, 1992
Minister Wang Bing-qian
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
                Re: Credit No. 2186-CHA/Loan No. 3274-CHA
                    (Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project)
                    Amendment to Replace JEDIC with JPTIC
Dear Minister Wang:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between People's Republic of China 
(the Borrower) and International Development Association (the Association), dated 
January 17, 1991, for the Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project (the Development 
Credit Agreement) and to the Loan Agreement, Provincial Project Agreement and 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, as defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement. we also refer to the letters dated April 22, 1992 and July 8, 1992 from Mr. 
Guo Yan, General Manager, Jilin Province Trust and Investment Corporation (JPTIC), 
informing the Association that JPTIC has assumed the rights and obligations of Jilin 
Province Economic Development Investment Corporation (JEDIC).
We find the documentation provided by JPTIC with the above letters sufficient 
evidence that JPTIC has succeeded to the rights and obligations under the 
above-mentioned Agreements. Therefore, the Association hereby agrees to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows:
(1)
In Section 1.02, paragraphs (e), (m) and (n) shall be revised to read as 
follows:
quote (l) "JPTIC" means Jilin Province Trust and Investment Corporation, 
established and 
operating pursuant to the JPTIC Charter;
 
(m)
"JPTIC Charter" means the Charter of JPTIC, approved by the People's Bank 
of China on March 23, 1991 (Bank Reply No. (1991) 137);
"JPTIC Policy statement" means the Policy statement of JPTIC approved on 
March 23, 1991 
and as revised thereafter with the concurrence of the 
Association and the Bank; unquote.
(2)
The term "JEDIC" shall read "JPTIC" and the term "Jilin Province Economic 
Development Investment Corporation" shall read "Jilin Province Trust and Investment 
Corporation", wherever these terms appear in the Development Credit Agreement.
Since definitions in the Development Credit Agreement are incorporated by 
reference into the Loan Agreement (Section 1.02), the Provincial Project Agreement 
(Section 1.01) and the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement (Section 1.01), 
these amendments, once confirmed by you, will affect these agreements as well. As a 
result, the terms JEDIC and Jilin Province Economic Development Investment 
Corporations will also be replaced by "JPTIC" and "Jilin Province Trust and Investment 
Corporations wherever they appear in the Loan, Agreement, Provincial Project Agreement 
and Financial Intermediaries Project: Agreement.
Please confirm the agreement on behalf of the Borrower to these amendments to 
the Development Credit Agreement by signing and dating the confirmation form on the 
enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for our files.
I am copying this letter to the representatives of the Project Provinces and the 
Financial Intermediaries in view of their interest in this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Page  2
By /s/ David Pearce
Acting Director
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
By /s/ Zhang Shengman
Authorized Representative
Dated: 18/8/92
