Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3274-CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
PROVINCIAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGSU PROVINCE
JILIN PROVINCE
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Dated January 17, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3274-CHA
CREDIT NUMBER 2186-CHA
PROVINCIAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and JIANGSU PROVINCE, JILIN PROVINCE and SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY (the Project 
Provinces).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 45,100,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association and the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement and that the Financial Intermediaries agree to 
undertake such
obligations toward the Association and the Bank as are set forth in the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement;
Page  2
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($ 50,000,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association and the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement and that the Financial Intermediaries agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association and the Bank as are set forth in the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its respective parts of Parts B, C and 
D.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and economic practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for its respective parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Bank and the Project Provinces shall otherwise 
agree, each of the Project Provinces shall carry out its respective parts of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Project Provinces shall relend the proceeds of the Credit 
and the Loan allocated to Part A.1 of the Project to the Financial Intermediaries 
under Subsidiary Loan Agreements whose terms and conditions shall have been approved 
by the Association and the Bank, which shall include:
(i)
agreements to be entered into: (A) between Jiangsu Province and 
ABC; (B) between 
Jiangsu Province and CIB; (C) between Jilin 
Province and JEDIC; and (D) between 
Shanghai Municipality and 
ABC;
(ii)
interest at a rate to provide a minimum spread of 2% in relation 
to the rates 
payable by Investment Enterprises on Sub-loans;
 
(iii)
repayment by the Financial Intermediary within fifteen years, 
including a period of 
five years of grace;
 
(iv)
commitment charges at the rate of 0.75% per annum on the 
undisbursed balance;
(v)
the Financial Intermediary shall utilize the Sub-loan repayments 
prior to 
Subsidiary Loan maturities to finance 
additional projects of enterprises similar to 
those financed under the 
Page  3
Project;
(vi)
for Renminbi Sub-loans, the Financial Intermediary shall repay the 
Renminbi 
equivalent at the date of the respective withdrawal 
from the Credit and the Loan 
Account;
 
(vii)
for foreign currency Sub-loans in Jilin and Shanghai, the 
Financial Intermediary 
shall: (A) repay the dollar equivalent 
at the date of respective withdrawal from 
the Credit and the 
Loan Account; and (B) pay an annual exchange risk fee set by the 
Project Province, of at least 0.5% per annum, not to exceed 2% per annum; and
(viii) for foreign currency Sub-loans in Jiangsu, the Financial 
Intermediary shall bear 
the foreign exchange risk between the 
dollar and the Bank's currency pool on 
amounts withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and between the dollar and the SDR on 
amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall exercise its rights under any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Association and the Bank and such Project Province and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Credit and the Loan, and except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no Project Province shall assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to affect the provisions of paragraph (a) above.
(c)
Jiangsu Province shall make a total of approximately SDR2,500,000 out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan for Part A.2 of the Project available to ABC 
and CIB as managing agencies, on
terms and conditions approved by the Association and the Bank, including those set out 
in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(d)
From time to time, at the request of the Association, the Bank or any 
Project Province or Financial Intermediary:
(i)
the Association, the Bank and the Project Provinces shall review 
the adequacy of 
the spreads referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) 
above to cover administrative 
expenses, provision for credit 
risk and a reasonable profit margin for any of the 
Financial 
Intermediaries; and
(ii)
the Association, the Bank and the Project Provinces shall exchange 
views on the 
adequacy of the exchange risk fee to be charged 
pursuant to paragraph (a) (vii) (B) 
of this Section.
 
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts B, C and 
D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Provincial Project 
Agreement and its respective parts of Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard 
to the progress of its respective parts of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association and 
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress 
of its respective parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit and the Loan, or the performance by such Project Province of its obligations 
Page  4
under this Agreement and under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, 
C and D.1 of the Project of its departments or agencies responsible for carrying out 
Parts B, C and D.1 of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof, as 
the Association and the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and of the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate; or
 
(ii)
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Project Provinces thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan  Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
Page  5
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 92987 (FTCC)
For Jiangsu Province:
Jiangsu Provincial Finance Bureau
No. 68, West Beijing Road
Nanjing 210024
Jiangsu
People's Republic of China
Telex:
342250 FBOJP CN
For Jilin Province:
Jilin Provincial Finance Bureau
No. 60, Stalin Street
Changchun, Jilin
People's Republic of China
For Shanghai Municipality:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
No. 60, Jiujiang Road
Shanghai 200002
People's Republic of China
Telex:
33062 BOCSH CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any of the 
Project Provinces may be taken or
executed by the Governor or Vice Governor, or in the case of Shanghai, the Mayor or 
Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as such officials shall designate in 
writing, and each of the Project Provinces shall furnish to the Association and the 
Page  6
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person for such Project Province.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Project Provinces to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals  or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Deve-lopment Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Asia
JIANGSU PROVINCE
JILIN PROVINCE
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
In order to assist the Financial Intermediaries in carrying out Part A.1 of the 
Project, each of the Project Provinces shall:
(a)
cause each proposed Investment Project to be reviewed by the Provincial 
Science and Technology Commission which shall determine whether or not it meets the 
eligibility criteria set out
in paragraph 3 below;
(b)
ensure that, out of the total amount of Sub-loans in each Project 
Page  7
Province, Sub-loans to township and village level enterprises shall represent at least 
75%, in the case of Jiangsu Province and Shanghai Municipality, or 65%, in the case of 
Jilin Province;
(c)
ensure that Provincial Spark Program Fund resources shall not be used to 
subsidize the interest rate on Sub-loans; and
(d)
ensure that a representative of its environmental protection bureau is 
included in the Provincial Spark Program leading group, and Shanghai Municipality 
shall ensure that such a representative is included in the Chongming County Spark 
Program leading group.
2.
In order to assist in carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, Jiangsu Province 
shall ensure that precommercial Sub-loans are made by ABC and CIB as agents of the 
Provincial Government, in accordance
with risk-sharing arrangements agreed with the Association and the Bank, which shall 
include:
(a)
the Investment Enterprise shall pay to the Financial Intermediary: (i) a 
service charge of 0.75% per annum and a management fee of 1% per annum, both on 
outstanding principal; and (ii) a one-time fee of 3% of total principal, payable when 
the Investment Project is followed by successful commercialization;
(b)
the Investment Enterprise shall repay the Sub-loan, and shall pay 
interest after successful commercialization at a rate exceeding commercial rates, as 
agreed at the time of Sub-loan
approval by the Financial Intermediary;
(c)
Jiangsu Province shall bear the credit risk on all such Sub-loans and 
shall establish a revolving fund to recycle Sub-loan interest and principal to similar 
investment projects;
(d)
costs for each Investment Project shall not exceed $400,000; and
 
(e)
an Investment Enterprise shall be eligible to receive only one Sub-loan 
under Part A.2 of the Project at any time and shall not have received a loan on 
commercial terms from any source for the same product or process.
3.
Eligibility criteria for Investment Projects shall be as follows:
 
(a)
Investment Enterprises shall be: (i) township and village level 
enterprises; (ii) county collective enterprises; or (iii) cooperative arrangements 
between township and village level enterprises and other entities (in which such 
enterprises hold a controlling interest).
(b)
Existing enterprises shall be well managed and operating efficiently. New 
enterprises shall be likely to be considered creditworthy by a Financial Intermediary.
(c)
Enterprises shall have their own technological capacity (in particular, 
technological manpower) or maintain an ongoing formal working relationship with an 
institution (such as an advanced
urban enterprise, a research institute or a university) which has the requisite and 
relevant technical capability.
(d)
Investment Projects shall be:
 
(i)
in industrial sectors which aim at producing marketable products, 
including those 
involving the processing of agricultural and 
animal products;
(ii)
of size and scope which are within the managerial and financial 
capacity of the 
enterprise; and
 
(iii)
those with a technology content beyond the standard investment, 
expansion or 
modernization project.
 
Each Investment Project shall involve the application of an appropriate technology not 
Page  8
commonly used in the Project Province (or, in the case of Shanghai Municipality, in 
Chongming County). The technology content shall involve substantial technology 
upgrading, adaptation or development. The technology may be based on developments 
within or outside the enterprise (e.g., in a research institute or university) or may 
involve the adaptation or improvement of imported or domestic technology.
(e)
Investment Projects shall meet all applicable environmental, occupational 
safety, health and hygiene laws and standards in China, and be consistent with such 
standards satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
(f)
For Part A.2 of the Project, Investment Projects shall undertake 
activities preceding full-scale commercialization of a product or process, including 
the development of new technology. The basic technology or research work may be 
imported or originate in a research institution or the Investment Enterprise itself, 
but the remaining precommercial development shall principally be carried
out at the Investment Enterprise.
4.
Each of the Project Provinces shall carry out the training under Parts B, C and 
D.1 of the Project in accordance with training programs agreed with the Association 
and the Bank.
