Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
JAPANESE GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2186 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3274 CHA
(Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated January 17, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2186 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3274 CHA
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the  
Recipient)  and  the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT 
OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS: (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Rural Industrial 
Technology (Spark) Project), of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
International Development Association (the Association) (the Development Credit 
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in 
various currencies equal to forty-five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 45,100,000) to assist in the financing of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
pursuant to  a  Loan  Agreement  (Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) 
Project), of even date herewith, between the Recipient and the Bank (the IBRD Loan 
Page  2
Agreement), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Recipient a loan in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) also to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Recipient has also requested Japan to provide assistance in financing 
Parts B, C and D of the Project;
(D)
pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987 between Japan and the 
Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has accepted, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement; and 
(E)
Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) 
out of said grant funds to assist the Recipient in carrying out Parts B, C and D of 
the Project on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
(a)
the term  "Bank",  wherever  used  in the General Conditions, other than 
in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Association referred to in Recital (B) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank"  shall  also  include  the  
International  Bank  for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement except that in Section 6.02 (a), the term "Loan Agreement" means the 
IBRD Loan Agreement;
(d)
the term  "Loan",  wherever  used  in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Grant Account;
(f)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
 
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant have been paid or are payable in 
another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.";
(g)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (16), (17) and (19), 3.02, 
3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 
8.01 (a), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.02,
12.04 and 12.05 are deleted.
(h)
The second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted.
 
(i)
Section 6.02 (c) shall be amended by adding the phrase "or the 
Development Credit Agreement" at the end, and the following subparagraph is added to 
Section 2.01:
"21. The term "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even 
Page  3
date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as 
such agreement may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement." 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement and IBRD Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and "Y" mean the currency 
of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of two hundred 
forty-three million Yen (Y 243,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 2.03. The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Parts B, C and D of the 
Project, open and maintain a special deposit account in U.S. dollars in a bank 
acceptable to the Administrator on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, (including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment).  Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provision of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods and 
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Sections 3.01 (a) 
and (c) and 4.01 and Article V of the Development Credit Agreement, including the 
Schedules referred to therein, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the 
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that 
all references therein to "the Association" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Bank as Administrator of the Grant under this Agreement, all references to the 
"Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient, all references to the 
"Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and 
the Grant Account, respectively, and all references to the "Development Credit 
Agreement" shall be deemed to be references to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective on the date on which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and Loan Account shall be permitted under 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement. The Administrator 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such date.
(b)
This Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hereto shall terminate 
if the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement shall terminate for failure 
to become effective pursuant to Section 12.04 of the General Conditions applicable 
Page  4
thereto.
Section 4.02. Subject to Section 4.01 (b) above, this Agreement shall continue 
in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement 
have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN 
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Administrator:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  5
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Grant Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                Yen)             to be Financed
(1)  Goods                 121,500,000        100% of foreign
                                              expenditures, 100%
                                              of local expendi-
                                              tures (ex-factory)
                                              and 75% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items procured
                                              locally
(2)  Consultants'          121,500,000             100%
     services and
     training
                            __________
     TOTAL                 243,000,000
                          ===========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
or for goods not eligible under this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(b)
the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of  the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
Page  6
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish  to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been made 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Grant 
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
B, C and D of the Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the  Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator:  (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  7
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds  to  the  Administrator  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
