FILE COPY                                  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2326-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
PUNJAB EXTENSION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 12, 1978
nThs dnomet ha s reabted duriht. and mAy be _ed by recipients only in the performance OfI
their ocial duies. Its cotets May nt  otherwie be dislosed without World Bnk ahoidation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Effective February 16, 1973
Rs 9,90           =  US$1.00
Rs 1.00-          =  US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million    =  US$101,010
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB EXTENSION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:           Province of Punjab.
Amount:                US$12.5 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       From GOP to GOPunjab:  Same terms as the IDA credit.
Project Description:  The project is designed to strengthen agricultural
extension services and develop adaptive research
farms in five of the 21 districts of Punjab. It
provides for an increase in the number of extension
staff; buildings and equipment for five adaptive
research farms; suitable housing and vehicles for
service extension staff; 30 heavy wheeled tractors to
carry out soil and water conservation work; sprayers
with suitable specifications for the project area; and
consultant assistance. The main project benefit would
be an increase in production as a consequence of the
impact of the new extension and research system on
agricultural yields. Marginal and small farmers, now
living close to or below the poverty line would be
the primary beneficiaries of the new system and of
the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing
resources. The most significant risk lies in the fact
that the effectiveness of the new extension methodology
is highly dependent on an efficient organization and
management of extension and research services, as well
as on farmers' response. Experience with ongoing
projects in other countries has already demonstrated,
however, that the new system can work efficiently in
formulation and delivery of messages, and in motivating
farmers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                     US$M
Local   Foreign   Total
Land Acquisition                   0.6        -        0.6
Buildings                          3.2       0.8       4.0
Equipment and Transport            0.7       2.4       3.1
Incremental Operating
Costs during Implementation    4.7         1.5       6.2
Technical Assistance               0.0       1.5       1.5
Sub-total                       9.2       6.2      15.4
Physical Contingency               0.7       0.3       1.0
Price Escalation                   2.8       1.6       4.4
Total                             12.7       8.1      20.8
GOP/
Financing Plan:                                           IDA   GOPunjab  Total
(in million dollars)
Land Acquisition                    -          .7       .7
Buildings                          2.4       2.4       4.8
Equipment & Transport              3.0        .8       3.8
Incremental Operating
Costs during
Implementation                   3.7       3.9       7.6
Technical Assistance               1.5        -        1.5
Sub-total                       10.6       7.8      18.4
Unallocated                        1.9       0.5       2.4
TOTAL                          12.5       8.3      20.8
Estimated                                                $ Millions
Disbursements:                     IDA FY  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Annual                  1.5   2.8   2.8   2.1   2.7   0.6
Cumulative             1.5   4.3   7.1   9.2  11.9  12.5
Rate of Return:        About 50%.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1909-PAK of May 12, 1978.
Map:                   IBRD 12916R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A PUNJAB EXTENSION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent
of US$12.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an extension and
agricultural development project in Punjab. The proceeds of this credit
would be channelled to the Government of Punjab on the same terms and
conditions as the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Development Issues and
Policies" (No. 1924-PAK, dated April 7, 1978) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 14, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The economic development of Pakistan since 1970 compares some-
what unfavorably with the record of rapid growth of output and exports of the
1960's. Starting with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh,
there followed a series of poor monsoons and floods, and consequently poor
harvests. Added to this were the twin effects of deteriorating terms of
trade and world recession. The magnitude of the problem was intensified by
the loss of momentum of the "green revolution" which had been one of the
mainstays of the favorable economic period of the late 1960's. In addition,
industrial development was discouraged by changed attitudes toward the pri-
vate sector and a series of nationalizations, beginning with the nationali-
zation of a large part of private industry in 1972. As a result, the basic
productive sectors have had an average growth of about 2% per year since
1970, although total GDP has grown by about 3% per annum because of the rapid
expansion of construction, government and other service industries.
4.        Performance in FY77 continued to be disappointing.  While record
crops of wheat, rice and sugar cane were realized in FY77, the cotton crop
was damaged by unusually heavy rains and severe flooding in August 1976. In
addition, the political disturbances in April and May 1977 resulted in the
closing of factories and the loss of about two months of production. Overall,
preliminary indications are that there was little or no real growth of output
in FY77, and a substantial increase occurred in the budget deficit and the
balance of payments deficit; a substantial drawdown in reserves was necessary.
While the inflation rate was officially 9% during the year, the true amount
of inflation may have been greater.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Tarbela Dam Project (No. 2228-PAK).



- 2 -
5.        The stagnation of agricultural production during the 1970's has
been the result of many factors, including unfavorable growing conditions,
a slower rate of adoption of high-yielding varieties and adverse pricing
policies. Considerable output increases are possible in the medium term from
the further extension of the "green revolution" technology, specifically
through increased use of fertilizer and pesticides, improved seeds and further
development of the groundwater potential. Sustainable growth in the longer
term will require more fundamental change in on-farm practices regarding land
and water management, particularly in terms of increasing the efficiency of
the water course distribution systems. Central to improved farmer techniques
is an upgraded, more effective extension service, with greater emphasis on
reaching the small farmer, and with better linkages to an effective research
program.  In order to increase the basic productivity of the land, a major
effort needs to be made to increase investments in projects designed to re-
verse waterlogging and salinity. There has been some success in agriculture;
fertilizer use has risen by 60% in the past two years, and exports of minor
agricultural crops to the Middle East are increasing. In the case of cotton,
however, production has declined because of adverse weather, insect attacks,
and an inadequate program of pest control, and this has tended to depress the
overall results for the agricultural sector.
6.        After agriculture, which accounts for about 32% of GDP, manufacturing
is the second largest sector of the economy, contributing about 16% of GDP and
50% to 60% of total exports. Since 1973, the major change in the industrial
sector has been the expansion of public sector involvement, from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. In January 1972, the Government took over
31 private companies in 10 basic industrial categories. This was followed by
the takeover of the vegetable ghee industry, the cotton and rice export trade,
commercial banks, shipping, life insurance and gas and oil distribution. In
July 1976 the Government nationalized the larger units in rice and flour mill-
ing, as well as all of the cotton gins. These actions have adversely affected
the climate for private investment, particularly in the industrial sector.
Rice and flour mills and some cotton gins have recently been returned to their
former owners.
7.        While industrial growth averaged close to 10% per annum during the
1960's, since 1970 it has been only about 2% per annum. The decline in the
growth rate is a result of a number of factors including lower private invest-
ment during the late 1960's and early 1970's and the problems with agricul-
tural production which reduced the availability of some raw materials.  Since
FY74, the international recession has had a major impact by reducing demand
for Pakistan's exports, particularly textiles. Output of both cotton yarn
and cloth is estimated to have been lower in FY76 than in FY74. The textile
industry has suffered from problems of low efficiency and a lack of competi-
tiveness in foreign markets. Manufacturing growth generally has been affected
by the poor performance of public sector enterprises. Difficulties in the
public sector include inadequate managerial autonomy, pricing policy, and
problems of financial accounting and control.



-3 -
8.        Exports have remained depressed for the past few years in part
because of the international recession while imports have increased rapidly.
Import prices increased 45% in FY74 and 48% in FY75, but in FY74 the rise was
offset by increases in major export prices, particularly of cotton and rice.
In FY75 the full effect of earlier petroleum price increases, combined with
falling export prices for most products, produced a 37% decline in the terms
of trade, although a slight improvement is estimated to have taken place
in FY76. As a consequence of these developments, the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments increased from $130 million in FY73, an
exceptionally good year, to $1,052 million in FY77. These large deficits
have been financed by expanded borrowings from foreign sources. Domestic
resource mobilization, on the other hand, has declined markedly, with the
overall savings rate falling from about 10% of GDP in FY73 to 4% in FY75, and
public savings turning negative. Although there was some improvement during
the past two years, overall savings amounted to only 7%, and public savings
to 2%, of GDP in FY77. The decline in private savings can be traced to lower
corporate profits as well as the lag of interest rates behind the rate of
inflation. Annual price increases averaged over 20% during 1973-75 but bank
deposit interest rates were only 7-8%. While the rate of inflation has been
brought down to around 9% during the past two years, deposit rates have been
around 8.5-9.5%. Real interest rates have therefore been barely positive.
9.        In the past few years the contribution of the public sector to
domestic savings has been unsatisfactory. Recently, a number of steps have
been taken to improve public sector resource mobilization, including substan-
tially higher prices of electric power, cement, petroleum products, railway
and air fares, and import tariffs. Steps have also been taken to simplify
the income tax and improve its enforcement. Subsidies of various types which
amounted to Rs 3 billion in FY75, or about 15% of current government expendi-
tures, are estimated to have been reduced to Rs 0.6 billion in FY77. These
revenue efforts, together with substantially increased inflows of capital,
have not been sufficient, however, to match the Government's increased spend-
ing. In FY77 the overall budget deficit was Rs 5.6 billion.
10.       Since FY72, the Government has attempted to increase output through
a program of investments in infrastructure, industry and the social sectors.
A large number of projects in heavy industries, chemicals and fertilizers
have been started, as well as substantial new investments in power and trans-
port. While the rate of investment has increased, the long lead times asso-
ciated with these projects have reduced their impact on present production
levels. Despite stagnant domestic output, low savings, and deteriorating
terms of trade, the Government was able to continue, and even accelerate,
this investment program because of the generous assistance received from
abroad, particularly from the OPEC countries. However, the balance of pay-
ments deficits in recent years have exceeded by a substantial margin the
amount of external assistance available on suitably concessional terms. It
is essential that the Government bring investment more closely into line with
domestic savings and foreign assistance available on favorable terms. In the
1978 Annual Development Plan a start has been made towards limiting the growth
in the public investment level. In reviewing the investment program, emphasis



- 4 -
should be given to providing resources for agriculture and other areas, where
it seems possible to obtain a substantial and rapid increase in production
and exports. At the same time, projects of doubtful economic justification
need to be re-examined.
11.       By the end of FY77 the total debt outstanding, excluding undisbursed
amounts, was about $6.4 billion. Debt relief given by the Consortium countries
reduced debt service payments in FY77 to a level equivalent to only 15.6% of
export earnings and workers' remittances. Rising foreign exchange remittances
from Pakistan nationals working abroad (US$578 million in FY77) are expected
to continue to temper the increase in the debt service ratio. Nonetheless,
the debt service ratio is expected to rise to about 18%, not taking into
account debt relief which may come from Iran, in FY78 and somewhat higher
thereafter, since the end of debt relief arrangements will coincide with a
sharp increase in repayments owed to the OPEC countries. With this prospect,
Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow
to meet its future requirements. It clearly cannot afford to continue to
borrow heavily on commercial terms and therefore will have to tailor its
plans and programs to the availability of external finance on suitable terms.
For this reason the major part of Bank Group lending to Pakistan consists of
IDA credits. Rough estimates suggest that, within an appropriate framework
of policies and programs, Pakistan should be able to progress in improving the
standard of living of its people, while containing its debt service ratio to
20%. The achievement of this objective will, however, require decisive action
by the Government to deal with the underlying causes of the country's poor
economic performance in recent years. Appropriate policies need to be framed
to deal with a broad range of economic issues, including resource mobilization,
promotion of exports and disappointing agricultural and manufacturing perform-
ance. At the same time, action is needed to strengthen public sector insti-
tutions. The capacity of public agencies to implement government policy and
operate commercial enterprises has, in recent years, failed to keep pace with
the large increase in their responsibilities.
12.       Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY77 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
account of the debt relief which Pakistan receives from other creditors) is
now about 20%, but is expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
13.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.6 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY77, 41% of total commitments were for public
services, 24% for agriculture, 33% for industry, of which 10% was for indus-
trial imports, and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted



t, almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
wnich loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily.  The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
sammary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1978 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries, such as PICIC, which
finances the medium and large-scale private sector, the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for the small and medium scale industrial sector,
and the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) for industries in the
public sector. The most important part of future lending for agriculture is
expected to be for the Government's program to increase productivity in the
Indus Basin by controlling salinity and improving the utilization of surface
irrigation and groundwater. The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP
technical assistance grant for improving agriculture and water planning in
the Indus Basin.
15.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
16.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have been working
with municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of this plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government



- 6 -
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases, such as the proposed project.
17.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed
field reviews of a third power project, a petroleum development project and
another irrigation and drainage project. Preparatory work is proceeding on
a fourth agricultural credit project, a third highways project and a Karachi
bulk water supply project.
18.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND EXTENSION SERVICES IN PAKISTAN
The Agricultural Sector
19.       Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Pakistan economy.  It
accounts for roughly one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force
and, directly or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports
(principally cotton and rice). The irrigated area accounts for about 90%
of farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its
tributaries covers an area of about 33.5 million acres and constitutes the
largest such system in the world. The rainfed areas lie largely to the north
and north west, being concentrated in regions where rainfall averages more
than 400 mm per year.
20.       Punjab is the heart land of Pakistan's agricultural economy.  Al-
though it occupies only 25% of the nation's land area, it accounts for about
60% of the total population and a comparable share of the irrigated area.
About 65% of its land area is under cultivation, predominantly in the irri-
gated areas, but with significant rainfed cultivation in the northern part of
the province. About 5.5 million acres out of an irrigated area (gross) of
24 million acres are double cropped. The predominant tenure pattern is that
of individual owner-occupiers who in 1972 accounted for 42% of the 2.4 million
farms in the province. The remainder are about equally divided between owner
tenants (who both own and rent land) and poor tenants who own no land.
21.       Agricultural growth during the 1960's was fairly rapid due mainly
to the introduction of high yielding varieties of rice and wheat, increased



- 7 -
use of fertilizer and the spread of private tubewells. Since the early 1970's,
however, the rate of growth has been disappointing and has failed to keep
pace with population. While certain minor crops have performed well, value
added in the major crops was only 8% higher in 1976/77 than in 1971/72 and
only 5% up on the exceptionally good year of 1969/70. This disappointing
out-turn can in part be attributed to a series of unfavorable and disturbed
years and to exceptional factors such as delays in the availability of
Tarbela water. However, it is clear that there are also more fundamental
factors which have restricted growth in output. It is disturbing that yields
for the new varieties are well below those achieved under comparable conditions
in other countries. Indeed, although average yields have risen through the
introduction of HYVs, the yields of the HYVs themselves are in some cases
lower than those achieved in the late 1960's. It would seem that this is
due, at least partly, to poor cultural practices.
22.       Pakistan's ability to sustain faster growth in agricultural produc-
tion will therefore depend not only on programs to increase the availability
of water and other inputs but, more fundamentally, on establishing ways in
which the available resources can be used more efficiently. Greater priority
must, in particular, be given to:
(a) improving the efficiency of institutions involved in water
and farm input supply programs and, where appropriate,
mobilizing private initiative to complement public sector
activities; and
(b) developing new policies and programs that have a direct
impact at the farm level in order to remove constraints
on productivity at the level that production actually
takes place.
23.       To ensure the success of farm level programs, inputs need to be made
available in adequate quantities and in a timely fashion, and prices must be
maintained at levels which encourage their use. Output prices and their rela-
tionship to prices for fertilizer, pesticides, etc., facing the farmers are
now more favorable than at any time in the recent past. If they are maintained,
the conditions necessary for increasing production through farm level programs
appear therefore to exist, and major improvements are possible in the water
delivery system, in general land and water management and in the standard of
farming practices. It now seems certain that the losses of watercourses are
much higher than originally assumed and that, in part, this explains why
cropped areas have failed to expand at the expected rate as supplies of water
increased. Watercourse improvement programs are being initiated but the scope
for further expansion is immense. Similarly, cultural practices have changed
little despite the introduction of high yielding varieties, and a systematic
extension effort is required to achieve a breakthrough in farming practices
in association with long-term improvements in land and water management.
24.       Small farmers having less than 7.5 acres constitute over 40% of the
farmers in Pakistan - although they account for only 12% of the total farm
area. In the past they have been neglected and the major benefits from
increased inputs and improved technologies have gone to the larger farms.



- 8 -
Research and extension need to be geared to generating and spreading tech-
nologies appropriate to the smaller farmers, and special measures may be
necessary to ensure that they benefit from future programs to augment
production.
25.       The need for broadening agricultural strategies to include farm
level and related programs was identified and discussed in detail in a Special
Agriculture Sector Review, distributed to the Executive Directors in March
1976 1/. Since then, a number of projects have been initiated or are under
active consideration which take their need into account. They include the
Seeds Project and Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project, approved by the Executive Directors in FY76; Punjab Livestock Project
and Third Education Project (which includes an important component for agricul-
tural training), approved in FY77; and the SCARP VI Project approved earlier
in FY78. The irrigation and drainage projects in particular have been so
designed that farm level improvements are included on a significant scale in
an effort to move the emphasis away from the installation of major capital
facilities.
26.       Following on from the Sector Review, and in order to assist Govern-
ment further in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural development,
the Bank has identified a project portfolio which includes projects in the
fields of agricultural extension and research; agricultural credit; irrigation,
drainage and salinity control; foodgrain storage; and the integrated devel-
opment of cotton, rice, sugar, livestock and forestry. Funds for project
preparation are being provided through a number of current projects (e.g.
SCARP VI) and the UNDP is financing the preparation of a Revised Action Plan
for the Indus Basin - with the Bank as Executing Agency - and has indicated
its willingness to support the strengthening of project preparation capacity
in the Federal Ministry and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
Extension Services
27.       A major impediment to achieving the efficient use of the available
resources and technologies at the farm level has been the lack of effective
extension services for transmitting improved farming and management practices.
The present service has insufficient staff, very limited facilities and focuses
on providing services, such as pesticides spraying, rather than advice and
training to farmers. It has therefore had little impact on the farming com-
munity, and in consequence morale is low and the staff find little satisfac-
tion and purpose in their work.
28.       Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the four provincial
agricultural departments, headed in each case by a Secretary of Agriculture
to whom (in the Punjab) Director Generals for Field Services (including
extension) and Research report. The service is organized in a standard
hierarchical fashion, corresponding to the Administrative Divisions (Deputy
1/   Report No. 922a-PAK.



- 9 -
Director level - DDA) and Districts (Assistant Director level - ADA).
Typically about twenty Agricultural Officers (AO) report to a District
head, though under a GOP Cotton Maximization Project the staff has been
strengthened in the predominantly cotton growing areas of Sind and Punjab.
Each AO supervises between 6 and 8 Field Assistants (FA). The Field Assistant
(FA) is the lowest level extension officer. He may be assisted by one or two
skilled laborers, mainly in plant protection activities. There is approxi-
mately one field assistant to every 1000 farmers. In the areas served by
the Cotton Maximization Project the farmer to FA ratio is narrower.
29.       Housing for the field staff is virtually non-existent and is inade-
quate even at the higher levels.   In consequence, most field staff jive in
housing provided by the larger landowners who thus establish a prior claim on
their services. Inadequate transport facilities are a major hindrance to
effective operation and budgetary considerations restrict compensatior-to
staff for travelling expenses.
30.       About half the FA's time, and most of that of his skilled laborers,
is taken up by actually spraying the farmers' crops or supervising this opera-
tion. He also markets sprayers and insecticides and time is spent collecting
debt, and he is also involved in statistical and data collection work. In
consequence FAs have very limited time available for what should be their
primary role: transmitting advice and improved techniques to the farmer.
Much of the actual agricultural extension work is done by the Agricultural
Officer (AO) but inevitably the AO concentrates on the larger, more responsive
farmers leaving the majority of farmers with almost no access to the extension
service.
31.       The proposed project would be the first extension project to be fi-
nanced by the Bank in Pakistan, although reorganization of the local extension
service was a component in the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project approved in FY1976. The aim would be not only to alleviate
the physical and staffing shortages that currently plague the service but, more
importantly, to redirect its work and improve its approach. Broadly speaking,
it would follow the Training and Visit system that has successfully been in-
troduced in a number of Bank-financed projects in India, modified as necessary
to take into account local conditions. Adaptive research is included in the
project to ensure that research findings are appropriate to the actual working
environment, and major emphasis will be given to making sure that extension
staff devote their time to extension and not to miscellaneous other activities.
32.       Since this is the first such project in Pakistan, it will be impor-
tant to monitor and evaluate the impact on agricultural production. Provided
it is successful, it is envisaged that the project would provide a model for
reorganizing extension services throughout the country. Discussions have
already been initiated with a view to implementing similar projects in other
provinces and the costs are sufficiently low to envisage the extension of the
new approach throughout the country within a relatively short time.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       Staff of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP), at the request of
the Government of Pakistan, paid a series of visits to Pakistan and established
teams to aid in preparing projects for Extension and Agricultural Development
(EAD). A Punjab EAD Project was identified by the CP in June 1976. A Bank
mission joined CP in September/October 1976 to discuss details and further prep-
aration work was advanced by CP and Bank missions in March/April 1977.  The
Government of Punjab (GOPunjab) submitted its final preparation report to the
Bank in August 1977 and the project was appraised in September 1977. Negotia-
tions for the proposed credit took place in Washington from April 24 to May 1,
1978. The Pakistan Delegation was headed by Mr. Saeed Qureshi, Chairman,
Planning and Development Board, GOPunjab. More details on the preparation
of the project are given in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled
"Pakistan: Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project" (Report
No. 1909-PAK, dated May 12, 1978) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Concept and Objective
34.       In many areas of the Punjab, conditions are suitable for highly
productive farming; irrigation water is available from surface systems and
from tubewells. The soils are generally good, and the climate allows year
round crop production. However, the opportunities presented by this environ-
ment, together with high yielding varieties of seeds and other modern inputs,
remain largely unexploited by the farmers, and yields are consequently among
the lowest in the world. In large part this situation arises because appro-
priate technical information has not been imparted to the farmers; the agri-
cultural extension service is weak and poorly organized, and such information
as is provided to farmers often focuses on changes in practices which involve
substantially increased cash inputs and are, therefore, unsuitable for the
majority of farmers. The objective of the project would be to provide to
farmers an extension service which would give them relevant and timely tech-
nical advice, based on research findings applicable to the farmers' conditions.
Project Description
35.       The project would support reorganization and strengthening of the
extension service in five of the 21 districts of Punjab in accordance with
a program and procedures acceptable to the Association based on the Training
and Visit (T & V) System. To meet this objective GOPunjab would submit a plan
to the Association by October 31, 1978, and would start implementing it by
December 31, 1978 (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement). The T&V
method is based on regular fortnightly visits by Field Assistants (FAs) to
selected groups of farmers. Each FA receives training and instruction on one
day per fortnight at a convenient location near his work area. He is given
simple and timely messages to convey to the farmers and seeks advice on any
problems which arose during the previous cycle of visits 1/. To support the
reorganization of the extension service, the project would provide:
1/   A general presentation of this method is found in the Bank publication
"Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System" (May, 1977).



- 11 -
about 590 additional positions in the extension service;
construction of 1,330 houses and service buildings
for extension personnel;
700 bicycles, 450 motorcycles and 80 motor vehicles
for extension and research staff;
equipment for five adaptive research farms;
30 heavy wheeled tractors to carry out soil and water
conservation work;
-    sprayers with suitable specifications for the project
area; and
-    consultant assistance with project execution, staff
training and developing unirrigated farming systems.
Further details of each of the project components are provided below
(paragraphs 38 to 50).
Project Area
37.       Five administrative districts have been chosen by GOPunjab as the
project area (Map IBRD 12916R). They are Rahimyar Khan, Vehari, Sheikhupura,
Sarghoda and Jhelum. They represent the different agricultural characteris-
tics of the Province. Rahimyar Khan District has an area of 2.8 M ac of which
1.5 M ac is under cultivation and the rest is desert. The IDA-assisted
Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP VI) is in this district.
There are 113,000 farmers in the district. The cultivated area is canal
irrigated, about half under year-round irrigation and the other half only
during the kharif season (May-October). The principal cash crops are wheat,
cotton and sugarcane. Other crops are rice, sorghum, pulses and fodder.
Vehari District, with 74,000 farmers, extends over 1.3 M ac of which 1.1 M ac
is under cultivation. The whole cultivated area is irrigated by perennial
canals and by an increasing number of tubewells. Major crops are wheat and
cotton, with some sugarcane and rice. Sheikhupura District has an area of
1.5 M ac, of which 1.1 M ac is cultivated.  Kharif irrigation is provided by
canals and rabi (November-April) irrigation by about 2,300 large public tube-
wells and about 3,500 small, private tubewells. There are 100,000 farmers in
this district and their principal crops are wheat and rice. Sarghoda District
has an area of 3.1 M ac, of which 1.3 M ac is irrigated, 0.9 M ac rainfed and
the rest, 0.9 M ac, forest, range lands and sand dunes. There are 139,000
farmers in this district. The cropping pattern in this district is the most
diversified. Wheat, chickpeas, sugarcane, cotton and fodder crops occupy the
largest part of the area. Citrus orchards are also important. Finally, Jhelum
has an area of 1.5 M ac, of which 1.1 M ac is cultivable. Almost the entire
district is rainfed, except for a narrow strip of land near the Jhelum River,
where there is irrigation from about 500 tubewells. The district has two
distinct topographic features, representing different problems of water con-
servation: the rolling uplands with sandy loam soils and the valleys in the



- 12 -
broken hilly country with silty clay or clay loam soils. There are 74,000
farmers in this district. Major crops are wheat, sorghum, millets and ground-
nuts. Yields in all five districts are low due largely to poor agricultural
practices.
Agricultural Extension
38.       Field Staff.  The number of Field Assistant (FAs) in the project
area would be increased from about 560 at present to about 980. Additional
FAs would be recruited mainly from the graduates of the Sarghoda and Rahimyar
Khan Agricultural Training Institutes. The Institutes admit matriculates
(i.e. young men with twelve years of schooling) who after two years of
training qualify for a diploma. The Institutes are being expanded and
strengthened under the IDA-supported Third Education Project (1056-PAK) and
will train 350 FAs per year from July 1980 onward. Of these, based on past
experience, 75% or about 260 would be available to the extension service.
39.       Each FA would cover approximately 500 active farm families.  This
group would be divided into seven or eight sub-groups of about 60 families,
from whom 10 to 15 contact farmers would be chosen as the principal channel
for conveying extension messages to the other farmers. The messages would
focus on the most important local crops and on practices of immediate rele-
vance; they would be related to farm size and farmer ability to invest and
take risk. The FAs would also carry out demonstrations and undertake trials
on farmers' fields. At present, the FAs are heavily involved in supply and
application of pesticides. While the sale of pesticides through stores to
be provided under the project would continue, the FAs would not be involved,
enabling them to give their full attention to extension work. Pesticide
marketing would be under the control of the administrative officer attached
to the office of the district Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA).
40.       The number of first-line supervisors of the FAs, the agricultural
officers (AOs), would be increased from about 80 to 130. These officers would
be available from the 200 to 250 BSc and MSc graduates of the Faisalabad
Agricultural University. Each AO would supervise about 8 FAs, and would
participate in the FAs' training program.
41.       Seven additional Assistant Directors of Agriculture would be
appointed to supervise AOs. They would report to district Deputy Directors
of Agriculture who would have overall responsibility for all agricultural
extension and related research activities within the district. A Director
General (Extension) with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Association would also be appointed (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). All the Extension staff would be relieved of duties that
do not directly pertain to the dissemination of farming advice (Section 2.06
of the draft Project Agreement and Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
42.       Training and Research Staff.  At the tehsil level (each tehsil is
typically 300,000 ac), there would be two or three Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs). They would be the principal teachers at the fortnightly FA training



- 13 -
courses; they would also from time to time accompany the FAs and AOs on their
farm visits and be available for helping solve special problems identified by
the FAs and AOs. There would be a Senior Training Officer (STO) at district
headquaters. He would direct SMSs' training in the tehsils and would have
charge of the execution of the entire staff training program, farmers'
meetings, and the maintenance and operation of the visual aid equipment.
43.       Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs) would be posted to dis-
trict adaptive research farms. The SSMSs would do research work at the
farm and on farmers' fields, support the tehsil SMSs and AOs with special
problems and participate in training courses. The GOPunjab would authorize
the appointment of all additional staff required under the project and would
ensure that vacancies are progressively filled according to an agreed sched-
ule (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
44.       Adaptive Research Farms (ARF).  To ensure that the findings and
recommendations of the Punjab Agricultural Research Institute are adapted to
the soils, climate and level of farming technology in each district, the
project would establish sites on which such adaptive research will be done.
The ARFs would be between 50 and 100 ac. The SSMSs would be based on the
ARFs and would have a Junior Scientist to assist them. Both grades would be
on secondment from the research services. The farms would be equipped with
suitable farm machinery and transport to sustain such a program.
45.       Staff Quarters and Other Buildings.  To alleviate the present chronic
housing shortage (see above paragraph 29) the project would build staff hous-
ing near the work sites which, for the FAs, would be mostly in the villages.
Suitable office, storage and training accommodation would also be provided.
Houses, offices, laboratories and farm buildings would be constructed on the
ARFs. A total of about 1330 buildings would be constructed. Present speci-
fications for such buildings would be modified to reduce unit costs from
approximately Rs 85 to Rs 60 per square foot.
46.       Staff Transport.  Lack of transport, and lack of operating funds
for staff travel, would be remedied under the project. It is proposed to
provide FAs with bicycles, except in the non-irrigated areas where, owing to
the greater distances and the nature of the terrain, motorscooters would be
provided. The AOs and SMSs would have motorcycles, except the SMS (training)
who would need a half-ton pick-up truck. The ADAs and Senior SMSs would travel
by 4-WD vehicles. The Senior Training Officer and the DDA would be provided
with automobiles which are cheaper to buy and operate. In addition, the DDA's
offices would each have a 1.5 ton truck, for rapid delivery of equipment and
pesticides in case other channels fail and for general operational purposes.
The bicycles, motorscooters and motorcycles would be purchased by their users.
Provisions would be made for cash advances to eligible staff members, which
would be repayable according to guidelines set by the Civil Service Commission.
An operating allowance would be given which would be based on what is regarded
as the required monthly distances to be traveled on duty and would be suffi-
cient to compensate the owner for fuel and normal maintenance and repair costs,
as well as amortization incurred on duty travel. Altogether, the following
vehicles would be provided under the project:



- 14 -
Bicycles:            700       Motorcycles:          208
Motorscooters:       244       Pickups:               27
4-WD:                 38       Cars:                  16
47.       Equipment for ARFs.  The adaptive research farms would need adequate
equipment for their research work, and also to have the means to till, plant
and harvest research plots on farmers' fields. They would require tractors,
oxen, farm implements and some simple laboratory and testing facilities and
the necessary mobility to use their equipment on investigational plots on
farmers' fields.
48.       Tractor Units.  Water conservation practices are the most important
factor in increasing crop yields under the rainfed conditions of Jhelum Dis-
trict. The cultural practices required are either performed when the soil
is hard before the rains, or have to be done rapidly, to minimize water
losses. For this purpose, 80 hp tractors with suitable implements are best.
The project would provide 30 of these units. Prior to providing these trac-
tors, the ARF would conduct a pilot contracting operation with three units,
which would serve to identify the required operations and to arouse farmer
interests.
49.       Sprayers.  The poor quality of available knapsack sprayers is a
serious constraint on cotton production. Under the technical assistance com-
ponent of the project, it is proposed to identify appropriate performance
standards and designs for sprayers. The project would finance up to 21,800
units meeting these standards for sale in the project area.
50.       Technical Assistance.  To execute the project efficiently, assist
with staff training, supplement farm management expertise in the province
and to assist with developing the right specifications for sprayers, 130 man-
months of technical assistance would be required. It will be provided by
consultants, local or expatriate, whose qualifications, experience and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The estimated cost per
man-month is approximately $9,000.
Project Organization
51.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Department of Agriculture, GOPunjab, except for the design and construction
of buildings required under the project, which would be the responsibility
of the Building Department of the Department of Irrigation and Public Works.
The Director General (Extension) would be specifically responsible for the
extension component of the project, while the Director General (Research)
would be responsible for setting up and staffing the adaptive research farms.
A special unit would be established in the Punjab Department of Agriculture
for maintenance of project buildings. Overall coordination would be ensured
through: (a) a Project Review Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, and composed of the senior executive officers of the Department of Agri-
cuture, officers of similar rank of the Irrigation Department, the Punjab Seeds
Corporation, the Cooperative Department, and the Punjab Agricultural Development
and Supplies Corporation, the Divisional Commissioners and representatives of



- 15 -
the commercial banks that provide credit to the farmers; and (b) District
Advisory Committees, chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture and com-
posed of the senior district officials of the same departments represented in
the Project Review Committee (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
52.       Total cost of the project, including taxes and duties, contingencies
and price escalation, is estimated to be US$20.8 M equivalent; the breakdown
is as follows:
US$ M
Local    Foreign   Total
Land Acquisition                          0.6         -        0.6
Buildings                                 3.2        0.8       4.0
Equipment and Transport                   0.7        2.4       3.1
Incremental Operating
Costs during Implementation             4.7        1.5       6.2
Technical Assistance                      0.0 /a    1.5        1.5
Sub-total                            9.2        6.2     15.4
Physical Contingency                      0.7        0.3       1.0
Price Escalation                          2.8        1.6       4.4
Total                               12.7 /b    8.1      20.8
/a US$10,000
T7 Includes approximately $0.5 million in local duties and taxes.
53.       The proposed IDA credit of US$12.5 million, amounting to 60% of
total project costs exclusive of import duties and taxes, would finance the
foreign exchange costs and part of the local costs. The balance of US$8.3
million would be financed by GOP/GOPunjab. A special project fund would be
established which would be replenished monthly to a level equivalent to
the estimated requirement for the next two months (Section 2.11 of the
draft Project Agreement). The fund would be administered by the Director
General (Extension).
Financing Plan
(in million dollars)
GOP/
IDA   GOPunjab   Total
Land Acquisition                            -       .7         .7
Buildings                                 2.4      2.4        4.8
Equipment and Transport                    3.0      .8        3.8
Incremental Operating Costs
during Implementation                   3.7      3.9        7.6
Technical Assistance                       1.5      -         1.5
Sub-total                           10.6      7.8      18.4
Unallocated                                1.9     0.5        2.4
Total                                 12.5      8.3      20.8



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       The 1,330 houses and service buildings and the buildings for
the ARFs, which are scattered over many locations ($4.0 million), would be
constructed on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. Bicycles, motorcycles
and sprayers ($1.9 million) would be purchased according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. In case of participation in the bidding by Pakistan
manufacturers, a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the
prevailing duties, if lower, would be applicable. Tractors and equipment
for the ARFs and for Jhelum district ($0.6 million) would be provided through
the Pakistan Tractor Corporation; motorcars, pickups and 4 WD vehicles ($0.6
million) through the Pakistan Automobile Corporation. The procurement pro-
cedures followed by both corporations are satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles
and tractors required in the first six months of the project for its early
effective operation would be procured in accordance with GOP's procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association, provided that the
aggregate expenditure shall not exceed the equivalent of US$350,000.
55.       Disbursements under the credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 50% of expenditures for the construction of all buildings; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles and equipment or 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured vehicles and equipment
procured through ICB or 70% of local expenditures for vehicles and equipment
procured locally other than through ICB; (c) 30% of total salaries and travel
allowances for staff involved in the project; and (d) 100% of expenditures
for consultant services and overseas training. Disbursements against all
categories would be fully documented and are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1983.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       As an essential component of the project, the rate of impact of the
project would be monitored and the results achieved evaluated. Proper col-
lection and evaluation of information would assist in determining any changes
needed in the ongoing project, and whether the project should be extended to
the whole of the Punjab and replicated in the other three provinces of Pakistan.
Monitoring and evaluation would follow the principles of simplicity, time-
liness and others established in Staff Working Paper No. 272: "A System for
Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects", and would be
carried out under the Planning and Policy Framing Cell (PPFC) of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture of GOPunjab, whose chief reports directly to the Secretary
of Agriculture.
Economic Benefits and Risks
57.       The main project benefit would be an increase in production as a
consequence of the impact of the new extension and research system on agri-
cultural yields. Marginal and small farmers, now living close to or below
the poverty line and who are at present largely neglected by the extension
services, would be the primary beneficiaries of the new system and of the
project's emphasis on efficient use of existing resources. Attributing a



- 17 -
precise level of benefits to this type of project is difficult since the
expected benefits of improved agricultural practices, which also require addi-
tional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension and research. More-
over, there is no experience in Pakistan to estimate acceptance rates with any
degree of accuracy. However, there is no doubt that the substantial improve-
ment in the efficiency of utilization of resources which should be brought
about by the project would generate a high rate of return. The best farmers
in Punjab already obtain nearly twice the average yields, and substantially
higher yields than these are achieved on research stations. Given the present
cropping pattern, it would be reasonable to expect that by Year 5 crop yields
would increase by about 3% over the "without project" situation, giving an
economic rate of return of 50%. This high rate of return should, however, be
treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread, further
investments in infrastructure and services would become necessary.
58.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organiza-
tion and management of extension and research services, as well as on farmers'
response. Experience with ongoing projects in other countries has already
demonstrated that the new system can work efficiently in formulation and
delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project deals
with rainfed as well as irrigated areas, and in rainfed areas there is a
somewhat higher degree of risk concerning the achievement of yield increases.
However, there are a significant number of improved practices and research
findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields,
even under rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend
to be less affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even
though benefits may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these should
still be considerable, both in economic and social terms. Since this is the
first project of its kind in Pakistan, however, its successful implementation
will require major changes in present working practices and attitudes.  The
implementation of the project will therefore need constant attention by the
Punjab authorities and close supervision by the Association.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Province of Punjab and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special condi-
tions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional
conditions of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) include the establishment of the Special Project Fund with an
initial deposit; the authorization of all additional staff required under
the project; the appointment of the Director General (Extension) with exper-
ience and qualifications acceptable to the Association; and the establishment
of the Project Review Committee.



- 18 -
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1978



-19-                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
_______________                                  PAKISTAN                             REFERENCE COLNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      803.9                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     244.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDIA          THAILAND       TURKEY **
_____________________________        ------------   ------------   ------ - ----
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      60.0     110.0      170.0               100.0       210.0       500.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           45.3       59.8       71.3               547.6        36.3        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       56.0       74.0       89.0               167.0        71.0       46.0
PER SO, KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       198.0      246.0      292.0               308.0       263.0       65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.2       47.6       47.4                41.0        44.3        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           26.3      20.1       16.5                19.0        13.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       142.0/a,b 124.3       113.0              *            60.0        153.:0/a.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       42.1       47.4       49.8                47.2       55.5         54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2       3.7        3.6                 2.9         3.2         2.6/b,c
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3        2.9        3.0                 2.3         3.1         2.5
URBAN                                  5.0       4.0        3.9                 3.2         4.9         4.9/d
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.5      24.8       26.0                19.8        15.0        38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)                           4
0 TO 14 YEARS                       420 /a,C 434            ,                 41.6        45.1        41.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.0/ac4 52.7            .                55.3        51.8        54.0
65 YEARS ANU OVER                     6.07oaA     3.9         ..                3.1         3.1         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9/a c   0.9                            0.8         0       9   0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.u7ae   1.6/a                           t.l /a      1./         1,/e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ,              14585.0      470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                  ..        10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13000.0   18100.0   20400.0             218000.0    16700.0Ld  140(1Q0 /f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         59.0       57.0       54.8                69.0        79.0       63 4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .-                                      4,4 .h                 11.9 L&
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             20.3 X    17.8       17.3                25.0 .4C    22.0 /      32.6
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            45.3       41.8       41.5                53.1 .Lc   51-1 L       60.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.4        8.0        8.4                 4.7 ,    5.6lC          2.9
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.58L    20.2        20.6                13.1  C    14.3 C        9.4  h
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
S OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            46.2         ..        ..                  ,..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           0.4                                                              0.7/i
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7450.0/g  4310.0/b  3910.0/a              4890.0      7970.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       14860.07b  8440.07F  7180.0: Tb           5220.0/d   6850.0        1770.0A1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2070.07  1870.0-  1850.(2                1610.0       B90.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         80.0       94.0       93.0                92.0       103.0      112.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              48.5         . .      54.0                53.0        52.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.6/a,j  14.0/C    14.3                  16.0        17.0/d      22.0 /k
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..       17.4/d       ..                 ..          ..        14.7 /1
EDUCArION
ADJUSTEU ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       30.0       44.0       51.0               63.0)        61.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     11.0       14.0       15.0               30.0         16.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0/k Io.o/e    10.0/C                   12.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      1.0        1.5        1.5                  . .       14.0/e      14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 16.0/1    20.0       21.0                33.0        79.0        55.0o/m
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 3.1/m       ..        **                 2.8          * -        1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        i8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0        ..       15.0                21.0        78.0        89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        3.0        3.0                1.0         5.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            22.0       67.0     137.0               114.0       124.0       247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1/a n   0.6/C       0.3                0,3         1.0         0.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
-20-
NOTES
UDlees other-in enoced, dstn fur 1960 refer to any year b-t-eeo 1959 and 1961, for- 1970 be-teen 1969 ,nd 1971, -nd for Most Rfae,t Estimate between
1973 aod 1976.
-  Trurkey bun been seleted as an objective ronetry for Pakistan since the  art-ral resourues, agricult-ral basis and eco-nmirally efficie-t
production and inventment programs are likely to bo similar ie beth corerries.  Moreover, Turkey sed Pakistan bac similar religions sed
calltrul /ackgruuvdn, with many of the .sme  -oriol and cnlt-ral barriete  te modernicatien with Tr-key being amnewhat ahead in thir process.
PAKISTAN    1960    Is  Includu.  data for Bangladesh;    /b  1962-65;    /Ic  Exclding frontier regions;              /d  15-59 and 60 years and over respectively;
/s  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aed  ver- to tcal lab_r forre;    /f  1963-64;    /   Regiatered, net all praeticing In -he
tooncry; /t   h 'nlud.   e nidvivcn;    /L  Inclndilg diape-a-rie-;    /I  1960-62;    /k  Up to matritalation  (10th grads);
N   5 years and over; the ability to read with  neder-eoeding a ohort stateentn onev-sry day life it a4y lacal isegeag;   /m  data
refer to hoosehold: /;     n  Pigure doe.  nort iclade imports by land.
}5/0    /a  uRaio If popolrtion under 15 -nd 65 and over to rtual laber forte;    /b  Regiciired, net all pr-atiring in the --ntery;
L 1 Iocloding data for Bangladesh;    /d  Excluding popnlatioe of D.I. Ehan and Peebhawr DEivsioni ;              in  Up 10 mitric-latien
(10th g-ade).
'tSI RECEY  ESTBt4ArE:    /a  Registerad, nut all practicing it thc contry;    /b  Including nurse-midwivee;    /n  Up to matricniatton
(10th grade).
TNDIA        1970      a  Ratin of popolation und-r 15 and 65 and c-er to totol labor force age 15 and over;    /b  Entinsted by yati.eal Sample Sur-ey.
in ter-/  of the average tumbse of per-a.n  /weka of unemploymeet as percentaie of total peres-  / keeka in the total labor forcc;
/t 1967-63; /d In-luding midwives.
THAILAND    1970    /s  Ratio of population  nder- 15 aed 65 and  ver- to economically active popnlation - age 11 and ever;    /b  Economically activc
popnlation age 11 and over;    /r  Rr-al tely;    /d  1964-66;   /I  Public schools, ohich inclndee trcheiral eduoation or
the pus t-secondary level.
FfR6E/,      1977    Ir  1967;    /b  Excludee 17 e-etern pr-vincer:    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /s  Ratin of popalatien  nder- 15 and 65 ecd over
to tocol labor force       /f  Civilian laer force;    /g  Including peak season agricoltaral undernnploymet;    /h  Disposable
income (1968) ;    /i  Agricultural land (1973), igor-ing landlens household.;    /   Including sasirtart corona and  idciveu;
/t  1964-66;    /1  1967-68;    /n  Perso-n  sin yesre asd over who tell the cenesm taker-  that they ca  read and orire.
R13, May 12, 1978
DEFINITIOtIS OF SCIIAL I.TDICATORS
lo.t  srta (thou k02)                                                                         Population per- sueinA person - Populatltn divided by n-bsr- of proccini,g
Total -  tol o1tiae ateotompr-i,tig Land area and fnland water-s.                               msle  ad female graduase norans, "trained" or cer-titedf  norner, and
jEtlc. - Moor retent estinate of agricult-ral area usod temporarily  -r penna-                  arxiliary persennel aith irainieg or experience.
oco -ic (yr crop, pantur-e,  ar-ket & kitches g-rde-s or to Sin fallov.                     pvouation  tn hubeit1 bed - Mpoplatien   dinided by namber of ho-p1itI bed,
ami1able in pablir- and Priests g.s.r. I and sp-falioad hospitl1 -rd
UY40tr car-ta (/IS)3  - GNP per rapita e-timaten atocurrent -aeket prices,                      r_ehbiliitin ce-terst; encludes sursieg homes sod eatablial-eets for
rola-laro-d by tone conversInn method an Wr-ld Bank Atlas (1974-76 baais);                    coatedial and pre-e-ti-e care.
19ff; IS/c and 1976 data.                                                                   Per- capeta snpplv of calories (X of renoireents) - Computed fr-m eotccp
eqoivalset at  net fond supplioe  ayailable in c.netry peer-apit  per day;
popullatIon nnd vital ntattoticn                                                                available sapplies comprise dsmestic production, importn less  -rp-rrn .a;nd
Pociilatlvn (old-year ntlllon) - Au or- anly Dirtc:  II set available,  eusrage                 changes in stotk; net supplies e7ctldb  animal feed, seen, qtantpriles ,,srfd
of too e-d-year-  etimates; 1960, 1970 asd 1976 data.                    .                    ia FAed proessing and I...ln     in diattibkitcori; -eqaireeienta  oere entir aed
by FAO base-d  -s physinlsgical neda fo- norml a-tiitp and beaithrnnd
Porciatlot deniriy - per- squar-e hm - Mid-year- popalarti   per square kilmmeter               eringenvtrnreeeal tamperat-re, body reighta, age and ant di-rrlbortl-  of
(100 hect/ /es) of total ar-e                                                                 popalation, and alloyieg 1110 fon vast   t hoasebold leol.
foyc/ation //en-iry - per ritqare I  of  gric. Iand - CEmpoted on above for                   Per cita auepie  of prntsin (r-area nor day) - Prterin content of per- cpito
a/irfrair-oral laed only                                                                      net snpply of food per day; sat snpply of food is defined an ahorr  rryltt-
menta for all countriea established by eUSDA EBoonoic Res.a..h Ser-/ct,
VftoT  surlutlr                                                                                 provide for a  inimum allmasnce of 60 gr_n of notal protein per doy, ovJ
fri_dc hireS rare p-er- chonrand . average -Annual Ite ht-biah per thousand of                  20 gramn of animal and pnlse pro-ein, of chInS 10 grant  bhosld Sn aoino- I
unlil-feo  poytlorlaon;  ote-year arithmeoti  uverages ending in 19h0 and 1970,               protein; these atandarda ar-  lever than thune of 75 grams of tortl lroteIn
and fIt-year  -veruge ending is /975 for- msts recit en timte                                 and 23 grams of animal per-ti nas an average for teke  or-Id, pr-op-ed by   O
rr-de death rate per thousandu r          -na.        d-ha P-  tensed of nid-year               in the Third World Fpod Sryey.
pupaiti-i; to-year ar-thmetic averages  _nding in 1960 and 1979 and five-                   Per capita erotein auoele fr-m  animal aed P,lse - Protein  -opply of food
vcur- aver-ace ending in  975 fat tone recent estimate                                        derived gram animal  and palses in grams per day.
_fait rot  lily rate (/thko) - Annual deaths of infats  -d- o             a  otg              Dakth rate (/thro) ages 1-4 - Anno-I deaths per thousand in age gr-op 1-/.
pot hosa-ad live births.                                                                      yes, no children is this age fr-op  soggasted as an indirator oF
Life  oer-tonry us birth  vrs  -             -verage namber of years of life remaining at       malsnurition
I/rt/; usoully fioe-year s-erageu ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for devalop-
Iig t a-ntuie-                                                                              Edacation
tr on r-eproductionrate -Sveraie nomter of live danghter-aawmanuwill bear                     Adiasted esrollment ratio - Pri-earr school - EntaIlment of a11 ugen an per-
In her nurmal reproductlve period it she expetiences presens age-specific                     ce-tage of primary school-age pepnlariam; includes child-re  aged 6-11 years
frr-iity raees;ns-lly five-year averages e-ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      bht adloted for different iengths of primary eduction; f-rr o--trirr o/t/l
For-, d-lopi,g co_ntrie.                                                                      universal edocati-n, eer-o1leet may enceed 100l   sin-e  -me popl1r ore ccItt
yvp,,lation gtonth rate (7i - eetnl - Competed asnnal growth rates of mid-year                  or above the official aehal age.
apoplarlo  for- 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adikated enrol7ment ranio - secondary achool - Tamper-ed aa above; seondary
Ppaulation growth rote (ti - orban - Copn_ted lube gr-vth rate of total                         edueation requires at least tone pasts of sppr-oed priar-y i-str-otio;
pr-rop lut/io; different defirce  of orban a reas coy afftec cmpar-ability of                 provides i .eral, vcat-ional er teatber tra- ILng is-rac-io.s for poplIn
i/tcongcountrie.                                                                              of 12 to 17 years of age;  -rrespo-de.ce.conrses are genera-ly  cxLuded.
Urb;o gopaulaion (l of toal) - Ratlo  of  r-hba  to total pepnlstiio; different               Yenr- of schooling Penaided (fir-t and second levels) - Total years nf
definitions of r-ban areas may affect enmp-rabiliry of data smong -ctari-s                    sekohling; at. seendary level, vocational meter-trion say be pectially or
einplaralp excluded.
Ags ncr-uctre  Perencst  - Children (0-14 years), werkiag-aga (15-64 y-ars),                  Voa-ti-al a-eolrsnt f2 sf acoadarel - Vocatienal institutiena  include
and r-stir-od (61 yeara aed over-) a  percenrages at  id-year populatien.                    teshsice, induntnlal or athat prograra  hick  perate indeped-ly 
/00 derend cvc ratio  - lana of popolation ceder 15 end 65 and over to th.ss                    depar-_enta of sacondary Insi_tar_ons
ofaa   5through 64.                                                                   Adalt litrt-oc r-at- 1%) - Litssests adnlnfbl credadtrrS  spr
Trucolr-. eceedncyrtia K-isri  cf PaPoIaio  unde- 15 and 65 and over to                  stg.tetlauspplso   gd1  years ar d over.                           .     P
i/ic lahor- ferue in age grnup of 15-64 peora.-te ge of totaL  d,,t   pl. i                                                          d    5     to -d
9001v rmiaooicug - aneptorae  (onnlati-ve, thou) - Cfaulsti-e somber of aecepsara Pou.inai
or bir-h-cLcr-ol devices under  -spites af nati.eal fanily plan-ing pragraP                 Persens per roam (nrban) - Average sumber of persats per roqm In -ccc,pied
Fartly rlavol/g-nuers (7 of married wopne    - Percentagse  of nerriad wams nof                 arcnara  and nesccapind  rra.lud
c     iLd-b ih-eg age (15-A  peers) wob  use birth-control de-ices to a11 married             ineurbannd dr1, r inhoes eithd easr)h- Oc-pied canoesti.nal daeLLings
uonea in quinn age grong.                                         In urbas esd roral ... ara  wtshnut inside or enside piped cater faculties
DMEmpy-ee                                                                                       1aa pero-etage of a11  mcn-pied dwellings.
Torcl dah- for-re fe       d) - E-co InoilY active Peroma, in-Lnding  tenad                     elct    Lcity         7 isiving    dE    a  paneent of total dwailings in urban sod
tortes ad onesrlapnd ht  enaladng bananives, sudoeta,  en.; deinition      rural- areas.f  .,  d                                            i.  .   _
ivnvariious counrtres are tot comparable.                                                   R-e  dwellings          toe sts %   - Capnnsd as shv  fa   -at
Laar force /n acrirult-re () - Agric-lt-ral Iabor for-e  (in far.ieg, ftrear-y,                 daelll.ng only.
hontitg and fishing) as par-entfge of tcaol labor forc.
tnmsployed f(bat labor- foret) - Unemployed sr-  usually defined as persona who               Censumption
sr-s abLe alrd willing to tske a joh, ant of a job an a float day, r ira  oa-idorcie-   erto   s)-61  pe   troleafrrdooudac
f a jot1, and sesking aurk for- a spe Jifiedmislsnam perf-ld   t, cedi-de g       t Rsdea     teen eapi (per thou ps) - All tyof p       ti  -enj-ues fae indi.  -redo-sL
canek; nay noe be romparable beweeunncournresa das to diffar-out dtfeinitia                   tno gnetries andlin pears when  ofgnopulaon; f rdio xcl      s     iJ.n  ff.tt;ect;
aF i/icr-played  and oorce of dsta, eg., employnent office aratisis   ample                   dat  f an ne- et   years maY n bet comparatP ble  lon  most uea-res  abolished
o-ararya  c-mpulaory uaemnploymnet- inenurgnce.                                                  t c    leg.
lotend bt-tiuo-  Percetage  of Pri-te inao-  (both in cash and kied)                      lsthnegtpansna  enlades anbala-ra,  -erenad tii-
rnct-    bn d ritche  530, riche-t 2%, poareit 20%, and poorest 40% of hoese-                 -nehiacl.
holds.                                                                                      ilectriinty (kwh/yr pna tap) - ounal c.. aI mpiot- of industrIal, crosnerotal,
p'bl ic ad priests  1eletriciep  is kilowatt hos-  per capita, gesap
:is rrlbutfouf  land_awnerahip - Parnstttages of lasd coned by wealthiast 10%                  baaed ond prdoiss date, scith at  Low nce fa- 1 casa is grids hut allow-
Ud-.h and N 5 trition ladin-g Car inport- and sopor-satr of   Lcnritt ly
Poyclar-fo,, cer rhosiclan - Papalarion dividod by numbdr of practicing                                    frp  d-tic prod-cio  plus net i p-ts of  -wprt
plivsicuea  qaslified frea  e medical sch-ol as niv-rsfty leval



-21-                                                                                2ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT D&rA
(Amounts En millions of U.S. Doller1 )
Actual                        Est. Projected             1975        1977-        1978-         1983-
1975        1976        1977            1978        1983            1977        1978         1983          1988            1977         1976       1i87
A, 1977 Poises end Enehtnge Rates                              Average Annual Grouch Bane-                            As Percent of GDL
NATIOhAL ACC00NTS
loves D-neetio Prodoot                                              14,227       14,452      14,709          15,710      20,729             1.7         6.8           5.7          4.4            100.0       170.2        99.9
Galve frrm Terms of Toade In)                                          -300        -264                          36         +11
Cross ... eD tic Income                                              13,927      14,188      14,709          15,674      20,740             2.8         6.6           5.8          4.4            100.0       100.0       713.0
-1porta inc. NFS.                                                     2,430       7,599       2,931           3,405       1,480             9.8        16.1           n.5          3.5             19.9        21.7        16.6
Etports -col. NFS (onpo-t -cpeity)                                    1.192       1           1,405           1.656       2.699             8.5        17.9           6.8          5.0              9.6        10.6        11.,
R-source Gap                                                          1,238       1,160       1,528           1,749       1,189            11.1        14.5          -7.5          2.8             13.3        11.2          5.0
Co-sv.ptio- Ecp-ndlto-ea                                             13,D46      13,033      13,497          14,400      18,235             1.7         6.7           4.8          4.2             91.8        91.4        57.9
I-vestoent Fopeoditures (Inc. stooks)                                 1,929       2,642       2,740           3,055       3,683            19.2        11.5           3.8          3.9             18.6        19,5        17.7
D-mestio S-vin.g                                                        881       1,155       1,212           1,306       2,506            17.3         7.8          13.9          5.4              8.2        12.1        12.1
National Savio0s                                                        991       1,345       1,634           2,053       30163            28.3        25.6           9.L          3. 5            11.1        15.3        19.3
MERChAIIDISE 000DE                                                             A-oucl Iota at .orrest Prtoe-                                      Average Annu   Growth Raste                         As Pernot of T-or1
Irtorts
Oapittl Go-ds                                                         621         723         884           1,076       1,660            19.3        21.7           9.1         11.1             33.4        24.4        t..9
I-n-redi-ae Goods (el l. foels)                                       799         651         799             813       1,200             0.0         1.8          8.1          12.0            30.2         76.7        25.2
ofalo,   Iroltrr                                                  97           56          67            142           35          -20.0       125.          -24.1                           2.4         4.15         1
ff1                                                                   335         357         411             486         612            10.8        18.0          4.0          17.2            1.5          15.5        12.
Cons-mptl7o Goods                                                     437         399         232             379         605           -28.0        63.4           9.8         14.1              6.8        12.1        17.1
Intbro  IportsI                                                       030         209         319             375         685            55.0        17.6         12.8           9.0             12.1        12.0         4.!.
T-al Menhaodi-se LIports (.i.f.)                                   Z,322       2,341       2,645           3,129       4,762             6.8        18.3           8.7         11.7           100.7       IO.7        511 .7
Exports
Raa CoItLt                                                            159          99          30             110         302           -43.0       266.7          30.0          6.9              2.h         7.2        1F.'
Crrnvn Yaoo                                                            06         144         123             118         247           -19.6        -4.1         15.9          13.4             11.8         8. 8         v.7
Cotton Cloth                                                          133         130         162             168         296            10.4         3.7         12.0          13.4             14.2        12.v        10.
Rls                                                                   233         250         250             230         596             3.6        -8.0          21.0          9.1             21.9        17.2        21.-
Others                                                                367         539         576             712       1 ,391           25.0        23.6         14.3          lb2              50.5        S32         49.1
[oral Merohaodisr Etpon-s (fyb)                                      978       1,162        1,141          1,338        2,832           15.7         17.2         16.2          14.1           o1.0        105.0       101.1
Mrn-htndise Tradr Indices                                                             Av-rase 1977 = 100
ElponI Prior Isdex                                                   83.9        83.9       100.0           106.0       151.7             9.2         6.0           7.4          6.0
i.,poct 11 one Ovdes                                               05.0         99.5       100.0          108.5        150.9            _2.1         9.S          5.8            .0
Tern, of Trade                                                       79.9        84.3       100.0            97.7       100.5            15.9        -2.3           5.6         -7.1
Efport on Vlur_e Inde                                              105.4        121.3       100.0           113.9       164.8            -2.5        13.9           7.7          0.8
4ALJU ADDED 1  SECTOER                                                    Anual Data at 1977 Prtoe, And ElhAn-e Oster                             Overage Aonoal Iro-th Rte-s                         A. P-rrent  Tof -al_
Agricoltor-                                                        4,121        4,306       4,446           4,783       5,989             3.9         b.4           4.6          4.2             31'                     3 -  .1
Odaovactooooc                                                     2,840        2,965       2,929           3,090       4,335             0.5         5.5           7.0          9.0             21           J.-        13. '
Ontoer Scntors                                                     5,904        5,974      5.985           6,377        8,374             1.5         b.5          5.6           5.9             44          4            4-
Tot-l                                                             12,765       13,245      13,3pO          14,250      18,696             2.3         8.1           5.b          5.9           100.          'O.        1'.
PUBLIC FINAhCE                                                            Annual Data at 1977 Prince  and Eachanse Ratne                         Avera.e A-rual Gro-th Ratot                          A, P-nc       f .1
(C-onnal 40rerv0entg.
Cunreot Reniopta                                                    2,059       2,221       2,264               ..         ..             4.9          ..            ..           ..              5
Curreot E.p.editures                                                2,451       2,502       2,308               ..         ..            -2.8          ..            ..           ..15
B,dgecary  _ovonos                                                   -392        -281         -44               ..         ..              .            .             .           ..            -0             *-3*
Other Pablit Srctor                                                    ..          ..          ..               .. .-.                     ..
Publilc Se-cor IEveatrent                                          1,370        1,539       1,754               ..         ..            13.1          ..            ..           ..            1,
CURBENT EXPENDITUE  DE0AILS                                                  Actual Dana                 Ost.            DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTO0R            At 1907 Po   ad Etv   OcR t4 of locoI
(As i TonAI Garrett tupenditure)                                    1975         1976        1977        1978              INVESTMENT PROGXI                 1975           1976             17 x9rs-77
Edoration                                                           7.0         7.8         8.6         9.8               OurI   Scrors                     272            308              265                        1 7.5
Ot      -er     Senoices                                          18.7         12.0         8.2         7.4              Agr,rulnurc-l                      356            160              19C
Adrlcolture                                                         3.3         4.1         4.6         4.1               edaslfy 6 lPmnoo4                 238            307              o79                        72.
Other Enonpmio Sc-ices                                              3.2         3.0         3.3         4.0              Power                             190             2bt              257                         r
lofeose                                                            39.7        41.6        41.4        39.2              Traep. 6 C      -us-ninan-ons      267            20               344                        10.1
Ad.i lralr7.5                                                                  8.3         9.3          8.              Oher                                87              24              19                         0.1
Other4j                                                           20.6         23.2        24.8        26.9                                                            __               _ _
Total Cornoot Etceadi-ares                                       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0T.t.1 E.,-di-..                               1,370           1,539           1,754                       10C.0
FIrABCIIC
Po,!tir Eo   aowigs/              -3              102             291
Foreign BorrowiA                1,097                             71                        _t,3,
Total FiPancing                 5, 370         1,539            1, 754                      1010.7
Note: Al' onaru-g.rs -I this tsable efer to rho Pkisnan fiIsal reoa Iuly I - june 30. Ihe fiscal year is identified by the oalendar year ic which it rods.
I'  lsldoal benween sotal Imports as  recorded by the Stao Blank asd by the Star--tical -Iivlon of the  inci-tr, of Flesoor
__ Coo,olid.ted  ederoal and Pro-i-loal Gove-nosn.
3/ loiod-og -op-ndlture on the Oanbela lam Proj-ct.
42  includes Lnteest psy -ents.
5/  Adjusted for Lorestment In --rrtn bodgot, transfers of surploses aod s-lf-f-n-aing by pu.llc  -cetoo.
South Asia erpurtnovr
MAy 12, 1978



ANNEX I
-22-
Ant-l                                   Estimatd                                          Projectd                                 dog  A -nlI on         Ot
19 73/74     19 74/275    1 9751 76    17976/ 77             1977T78                 1997          998          18/1         18/2         1 982T, 83       977       92
BALDANCE OF
E.op>tt  (i-cl. 9251                                   1, 202       1, 252        1, 43 3      1,474                1, 679                   1, 99 7      2 ,31?7      2,675        3,0C44        3, 488                 785. 7
Is cot  (ltd. SOS                                      1.829        jL551        2J.1          287 7                31516                   3 .Z7 7      4.041         4,34         4 691         5  28 6.4
SsortSnisc 0-      .                               -827       -1,299       -1,100        -          ~         .1,837                  -1,782       -1,724        -1,674       -1,64l       -1,776
Inotonstiost /                            ~~~     ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~-90  -93  -109  -141                  -141                    -219         -244          -260         -277         -292                  13.7
lirsot loossoo,ntt locoste Costl          8           ~     ~    ~~~ ~       ~ ~~        ~~4 -36  -28  -68                  -88           -64          -si2          -62          -58 
Aork-rt   6eatitoasss   (oal138                                        213          335          3 78                1, 020                  1,100        1,285        1,357         1,350        1,350                   3.8
Other Facto   Ssooi-e  Cot                                 2             7         -37           -12                   -2                       -3           -2           -3             -- 
Car.. ct   Te n.f. r  Into                                . ..         . . .        ...          .........                                                  .                  
Onlascsor.Ioorrot Acconcf~_~147                                          -15210_ 99                                                    -749         -49          -6.34         -7
Pritate  Dtreos Icons~~~~~~~~~noi lost)  . .        - ~~~~~~    41           43                    50                      55           63           66            /3           80                   8.2
nffIo.l Capital Iros   n)6                                            104           120          149                   00                     133           123          102           103          102
* ohic997Lso
Rtahorss,onstnk'                         ~~~~         ~~~~     ~~~~~446  919  1,347  649            1,799                      989        1,052        1,074        1,148         1,,114
hnpnynsttt                              .1~~ ~ ~~~~~              ~~~~ ~ ~~07  -132  -144  -169      -23                      34          -47           -1            46           -9
Se   Isooesro                                             339          786          903          490                   841                     6453          852          890          6 72         806
llntortsnsotn             ...         ....          ...          ...                   ~~~~~~                                ~~~          ~~~           ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~13  3333  30  3/7
Osraytoects               ...                                     ..,                   -~          ~           ~~     ~     ~~     ~     ~~      ~     ~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 -3  -2  -2  -2  _-2
Not liohorsoocots                                                                        ~~~~~~                                ~~~          ~~~          ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11  23  28  26  28  38
Cil     Transact toot s.c-1-                          40          331           49          190
-hugol        tksrc    -iosu)103                                       -93         -188          191
-0A7T ANt 1//AN COMMTM00ENTS                                                                                                            DODT AND DIRT tSERVC                               19 73/74     174/ 75       1975777/     1976,'1
Ott/int Iast                                                3           39           24          164                                  PshbIs Debt  -ot. 4 D10hor-d                          4,521        4,991        9 , 755       62
Iottrsto  Poblio  ~tch4                               81           93             9           14
Poblic 0441Toc Lay...ts c  Fohto  Dsho"                                                                                                                                                       106          1311'                       1
1701                                      83~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  60  50            30                                    T.oat Potlib  Debl ServIc                            707          7298          25I
IDA                                                     53           92          109            94CttrDbSrie   ni
sthts   Motil-orra                                     92            71         119            94                                    OTaI Dshl Onr-t  lst                                  197          22 82530
Dotnroc,eobn2i                          ~~~~          ~~~~        ~~~~~973  532  639  443
Soppliers                                ~~~            ~     ~     ~~~           ~~~~~~13  9  42  -                  B-rden  on Esp-rtnoog    10
Fbnanslal lostltot taos                  ~~~          ~~~           ~~~57  12  18  -Pbllic Debt Se-oi-                                                                      13.8          15.4                      1  
Bo-ds                                                                 -             -            -CsllntSrb
I.oat johllo  0411 Loans                           1,241            945        1,040           9635ort  T-nt  of Public  Rebt
Antn   D/nSnasdiog  - Jonn 30, 1937                                                lot..a %) Prior Ycsr t/t                             1.9           1.1          2.2          21
Dtnhorntd  Solo  Osrooso                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.o-t..0 7. Priorlea Y...  D-2.5                     3.0 
tX/tONAL  26011BT                                                                                                                             Is/o.D   als  N  ibs/trt                          299           21/7         3     ~      3 
1110 as7 PbitDnbt 14D                                   6.6           1.3          5   .3
1B80                                                             330                                                                 1001  Dshbt  _sro                                       52.5         44.9         39.
tEl                                       397                                                                lO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0IRD otFohbli  Debt Sort/t  29.1     19. 7 
JObor toltilaterat                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~162         3                                                                                                                            56           1 
Ootrr,eoontn                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4909       79                                        DOn, Debt   no      Istoe                                4615         47110/7
Soppilors                                        1~~           ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05  2                   IDa a _71 P It Db/410.3                                               9.6          8.53
FPl..anclatIotolo                                                  92                       1                                        IDA Dsht Stro-                                           4.2          5.7           5.7          .1.
Foods                             -                       -                                        IDA an 76 PolIto  Dr/to Scro/oc                          2.2          3.1           2.1          1.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   Pbli   Db~S-i  22  .5  .21.
Total   obtlm  0417  Osblo                                     6,264                      130
S/toot-tr  Dobo loisb. only)
N -so  nolabo                                                                                         Ni  orngligible-
* . .  tot .oat lab-nprasl   o  inc/dsd inoal                                  -.I                       Les  tho   half the  -sn-t s  noto  sh-o
1'  Ths 12 a..s  sot 1977/79  ioloo  op-d dlatnrme-o   00 ...oa..  of dabs onUs0  already a gs-d   itlh tOn Pnkintan  Aid Conso-ti-
2.   I-oiodtn9~ ceer   nod   _iciastos
IT' I'd iodg   _ooit.sots cads for dobt -Itlsf onlY shso nehi-nd  hl-ight refinnotiog  trdits.
N7 leo f debt r_licf,
Sooh Asia Depa-se-
8/ny 12, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEMENT Oi BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                          US$ Million
Credit                                            Amount    (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower          Purpose         Bank  TW  IDA       Undisbursed
Seventy loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                            537.5      478.3
621     1969   Pakistan       Railways            14.5        --           1.5
206    1970   Pakistan        Engineering
Education         --         4.0          0.7
213    1970   Pakistan        Power
Distribution      --        23.0          1.3
422    1973   Pakistan        Karachi Port III   --          18.0          3.2
961    1974   Pakistan        Industrial
Investment       25.0        --           4.1
988    1974   Pakarab         Multan
Fertilizer       Fertilizer       35.0        --           0.04
492    1974   Pakistan        Karachi Port IV    --          16.0         10.2
510    1974   Pakistan        Telecommuni-
cations III       --        36.0          7.7
1107    1975   SNGPL           Gas Pipeline IV   60.0          --          13.2
546    1975   Pakistan        Industrial
Development
(NDFC)            --        30.0          8.2



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Loan or                                                               US$ Million
Credit                                              Amoumt       (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower          Purpose          Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan         Power
Transmis-
sion                    50.0      -         48.7
620    1976   Pakistan         Seed                              23.0         22.6
1326    1976   PICIC            Industrial
Development      25.0                        21.6
630    1976   Pakistan         Lahore Water II                   26.6         25.7
648    1976   Pakistan         Irrigation and
Drainage                         14.0        13.1
1366    1977   Pakistan         Livestock                  10.0                10.0
1372/
684    1977   Pakistan         Railways           35.0           25.0         60.0
678    1977   Pakistan         Education                         15.0         14.9
683    1977   Pakistan         Flood Reha-
bilitation                       40.0        25.5
751    1977   Pakistan         Hill Farming                       3.0         3.0
754    1978   Pakistan         SCARP IV /b                      (70.0)      (70.0)
755    1978   Pakistan         Hazara Forestry /b               ( 1.7)      ( 1.7)
771    1978   Pakistan         Tarbela II                        35.0        35.0
TOTAL                                        732.0  60.0  786.9
of which has been repaid                     320.2           12.9
TOTAL now outstanding                        411.8  60.0  774.0
Amount sold                   23.3
of which has been repaid   22.3                1.0   --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /c                                   410.8  60.0  774.0
Total Undisbursed                             75.4  58.7  196.1          330.2
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not yet effective and not included in totals.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd                    Rolled Steel Products    0.63          --     0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Ltd                    Textiles                    0.75      --      0.75
1962   Gharibwal Cement        Cement
1965   Industries Ltd                                     5.25      0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                          Development
1975   PICIC                   Financing                   --       0.52    0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products               Textiles                    1.95      --      1.95
1965   Packages Ltd            Paper.Products             2.31      0.84    3.15
1967-  Pakistan Paper
1976   Corp. Ltd               Paper                      5.38      2.02    7.40
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers                 1.00     2.92    3.92
1969   Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd              Pulp and Paper              5.60     0.63    6.23
Total Gross Commitments                          22.87      7.35   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                      18.08     0.90   18.98
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 4.79      6.45   11.24
Undisbursed                                       0.05        -      0.05



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit is intended to help finance the repairs and additional
works required to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River
was diverted through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the
construction of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-
June 1974, the main embankment had been completed to full height, and the
first impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficul-
ties were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one
of the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the
tunnels and outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the
Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were
made by a number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the
cost of repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered
further damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has
now been redesigned and repaired, and operated satisfactorily during the
1977/78 irrigation season. The permanent solution for Stilling Basin 4 is
still under discussion. From 1975 through mid 1978, irrigation requirements
have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units began in
1977. Plunge pool development has endangered the flipbucket of the service
spillway, and additional protection works for this spillway must be completed
before July 1978.
Loan No. 621         Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of March 31, 1978 the Ninth Railway Project was nearly completed
and disbursements amounted to US$13.0 million. The main outstanding item is
construction of the first stage of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi.
The location and design of this yard was changed twice following protracted
investigations and negotiations between various agencies and planning author-
ities with a view to reconciling urban planning and railway marshalling ob-
jectives. The Tenth Railway Project became effective on May 9, 1977; procure-
ment under the Project is proceeding satisfactorily although there have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
been no disbursements so far. PR's 1976/77 traffic level and financial
results were adversely affected by the severe flooding in August 1976, a
sharp drop in wheat imports and political unrest in the first half of 1977.
Revised estimates show an improved financial performance for 1977/78 as a
result of a 20% increase in passenger fares and a 12.5% increase in freight
rates effective July 1, 1977 and efforts to hold down working expenses.
PR's performance of covenants is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. The new physical facilities are in partial use and are expected to
be in full use by June 1978. An extension of the Closing Date until December
1978, has been agreed to allow for execution of technical assistance and other
qualitative improvement programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical construction of the grid substation and associated equip-
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 70 percent
complete. Physical completion of the project is expected by the end of 1978.
To enable retention payments and final payments for equipment deliveries to
be made, a further postponement of the Closing Date by six months to
December 1978 will be needed.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Four-fifths of Credit No. 422 has been committed and disbursed.
Construction of the Juna Bunder Berths and of the Napier Mole Road Bridge is
about ten months behind schedule, with completion now expected by early 1979.
Construction of the oil berth (Credit 492) commenced in January 1977, some
27 months behind the program prepared at the time of appraisal and is now
substantially completed. Consultants have prepared contract documents for
channel dredging works and dredger procurement, and these have been sent
to prequalified contractors. Disbursements through March 31, 1978 totalled
US$5.8 million.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Port efficiency and productivity still appear to be declining.
Because of poor maintenance, as much as 70% of KPT's cargo handling equip-
ment is in need of repair. The Association has stressed to KPT and GOP
the need to strengthen the operational and financial management of the Port.
A number of agreements reached at the time of credit negotiations respecting
management improvements have not yet been satisfactorily implemented.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1978
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
The loan has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $20.9 million
on March 31, 1978. PICIC has requested postponement by one year of the
Closing Date on account of three subprojects. This request is now under
review.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1978, subprojects for US$13.7 million had been
approved by the Bank. PICIC remains a capable institution, but its operations
and collections have been adversely affected by the recent political diffi-
culties in Pakistan. Its long-term prospects will depend mainly on devel-
opments in the political/economic environments, including the textile sector,
which accounts for a large portion of PICIC's outstandings.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser extent,
for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the appraisal
estimate by about 87% (US$92 million). Construction delays have been due to
a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to late deliveries
of critical equipment. Project completion is currently forecast to be about
18 months longer than the appraisal estimate and production is expected to
start in September 1978.  The project's economic return is still close to 28%,
because of higher forecast international fertilizer prices. The company has
already obtained the extra financing required, in equity from the Government
and the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special Fund and commercial
banks. The project's corporate and field management has been strengthened.
Craftsmen and field supervisors from Europe have recently been hired to
expedite plant construction.



- 29 -
ANNEX I1
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factory, but is now about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items is nearing completion, installation of plant
and equipment is making good progress, and about 60% of the additional sub-
scriber's lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have been
reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines and to
have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization, important
to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, has been delayed, but
proposals which appear satisfactory are awaiting final Government approval.
The matter is continuing to be pursued with Government.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
As of March 31, 1978 US$26.6 million of the Credit had been com-
mitted and US$21.8 million disbursed. We anticipate that the Credit will be
fully committed by June 1978 and fully disbursed by the following March.
Although NDFC is currently a highly profitable and financially stable insti-
tution there are several aspects of its operation which are of concern. The
orientation of NDFC's activities has been toward commercial banking; its
development impact would be improved if it were to redirect its efforts
toward analyzing sector problems in the public industrial sector. Its rapid
expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited manpower resources
and newly established systems and procedures and while further growth is
projected over the next few years, staffing and systems development may
prove limiting factors.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A recent re-estimate
of final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for
permission to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for
handling additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward
several other items that are required. Some delay has occurred in processing
this request because the Bank is awaiting Government's approval of the project
extension and an adequate increase of gas tariffs.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Production of prebasic and basic seed is above appraisal estimates
and project coordination and reporting procedures have improved. Progress of
the Seed Corporations' activities is satisfactory. Three of five consultants
to be financed under the Credit are in place and tenders for the three Punjab
processing plants will close in June. Minor amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement will close in some simplify procurement procedures for
vehicles and civil works.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project is now nearing completion but
this has been delayed and consequently the construction has also been delayed
and is about one year behind schedule. UNDP is financing US engineering con-
sultants who are advising and assisting WASA staff and local consultants to
carry out the engineering work. Experts provided by UK are assisting with
engineering management, leak detec.tion and training.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and associated equipment will start
during 1978 with a completion date scheduled for December 1980. The contract
for consultant engineering and supervision was signed in April 1976 and most
bidding documents for equipment and material have been issued with awards
having been made on the major items.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Consultants began work on July 1, 1977, and will complete the de-
tailed plans and estimates for the project in July 1978. WAPDA,assisted by
their consultants, has completed the procurement documents and invited tenders
in May 1978, for supply of construction equipment. Canal remodelling and road
improvement is scheduled to begin in February 1979. In the meantime, WAPDA
has completed a large part of the work and constructed the project office
buildings and quarters in Khairpur.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project, which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) primary teacher training, and experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist in
developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training and
related studies. Project implementation is about three months behind schedule
because of: (a) delays by the Government in confirming the appointment of
consultant architects in the Province of Sind; and (b) delays in contracting
technical assistance for the project. The architects have been now appointed
and the Government is addressing the problem of contracting specialists.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Progress has been slower in recent months, with delays in Govern-
ment clearance of consultants to be financed under the project. The first
spearhead team, which will establish Village Livestock Associations, has com-
pleted its training and is now working in the field. Partly as a result of
cheap milk powder imports, the Lahore Milk Plant is experiencing financial
problems despite better management. Performance at the Sihola Meat Works
has improved.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  $40 million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project covered by this Credit continues to lag behind schedule.
Actual disbursement by March 31, 1978 was US$14.5 M, far below appraisal
estimates ($37 M). Minor civil works were completed by June 1977, while
85% of the major civil works had been completed by March 1978. However,
only 38% of the procurement of spares and equipment had been made by March
1978. FDRCC requested in mid-February 1978 weekly progress reports from the
consultants (Nespak/Harza) and from Mechanized Construction of Pakistan.
This improved supervision by FDRCC has facilitated recent progress of the
project. Three studies envisaged by the project (National Flood Plan, Civil
Works Contracting and O&M of Flood Protection and Drainage Facilities) will
be discussed by GOP and IDA on July 1978.



ANNEX III
-32-
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB EXTENSION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
June 1976 to August 1977
(b) Agency which has prepared the project:
Punjab's Department of Agriculture's Policy
Planning and Framing Cell, with assistance
from FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first Bank Mission to consider the
project
First presented: December 1976
Pre-appraisal Mission: April 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 2, 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 1, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 15, 1978
Section II: Special Conditions
(1) The reorganization and strengthening of the extension
service would follow the model of the Training and
Visit System. GOPunjab would submit a plan for this
by October 31, 1978, and would start implementing it
by December 1, 1978 (paragraph 35);



-33-                         ANNEX III
(2) The agricultural extension staff would be relieved of
all duties that do not directly pertain to the dis-
semination of farming advice (paragraph 41);
(3) GOPunjab would ensure that staff vacancies are pro-
gressively filled and that all staff would be appointed
by December 31, 1983 (paragraph 43);
(4) The following are additional conditions of credit
effectiveness: (a) the Special Project Fund has
been established and the initial deposit in the Fund
has been made (paragraph 53); (b) additional staff
required under the project has been authorized
(paragraph 43); (c) the Director General (Extension),
whose experience and qualifications are acceptable
to the Association, has been appointed (paragraph
41); and (d) the Project Review Committee has been
established (paragraph 51).






IBRD 12916R
48                                                                                       72-                 -                                         FEBRUARY 1978
(\~'  elar
(,   TVDbl    / \                    Aoproxlmate
PAKISTAN                                                                *.                                          vrxmt
P SCarmpbellpUr   ' *ISLAMABADI                   Love of Control
PUNJAB  EXTENSION  AND                                                                    'o 1\  Rowolp)nd*
N W      R      ,' RAWALPINDI(
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location   Map  of  Project  Districts                         Qo           3 KM
A    Agriculturol University
*    Main Research Statiors                        G- jawh
*    Agricultural Training Institutes
, J OProject Districts                                                   A                                                     i1 k "tt
0     National Capital
O    Capital of Pravince                                                  AR          DHAI
*    District Heodquarters                        0                                                       J
32                        -  Province Boundaries                            i                                                     J _    N Wr3
--      D,strict Boundaries
International Boundaries                                                          Rivet             Seikha
           1l      X       z        0*       +      t  XLAHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE
* /_       _  DJlorg/,'    F.,salabod                  f
J H  NG/ FAISALABAD                               LAHORE :7
0~ ~~~ I5 LO   E        S      0        125                                                     z/g'   
o 25 ~~~~~ MILES ~ 09
O          50        100         IS0         200
i ~        ~           ~~~ 2  ' GhazlKhon*, st *H                                           ahocolnogor,>
l   e/B A  H A W  A  L P U  RH  I W  A  L
M IR  L TbblShW^K  A  NAr RP
-28'                                                                                                                          / 28'j  I N D  IeA
C;'>'~   D Et Ri. t-AI2'
68~~                                        ~        ~~                      ~~ H A  N2                           :"                     2         4 
PA K      , iu
P A  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'2~~~~~~~~~~~~IA



