CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 813 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Punjab Extension and Agricultural
Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 813 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1978, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
Province of Punjab (hereinafter referred to as Punjab) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Punjab the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth aid in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Punjab;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being    ,ereinafter called the General
Condition-).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Project Area" means the Districts of Rahimyar Khan,
Vehari, Sheikhupura, Sarghoda and Jhelum in Punjab; and
(c) "Project Implementation Schedule" means the schedule of
even date herewith, in accordance with which the Borrower and
Punjab intend to implement the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand dollars
($12,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1988, and ending
February 1, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division or his nominee is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Punjab to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Punjab to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Punjab under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed,
consultants, including those specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, whose qualifications, experience and terms and


﻿-4-
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Said consultants shall be appointed in accordance with Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the consultants referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be provided for the
duration of their employment with suitable facilities, adequate
and qualified counterpart staff and such other appropriate support
as may be necessary for the timely and efficient discharge of
their activities under the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire in accordance
with the Project Implementation Schedule all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the extension staff of
the Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan to cease
providing direct crop production advice to farmers in the Bhalwal
tehail of the Sarghoda District upon implementation of the Project
in aforesaid tehsil.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-5-
(a) Punjab shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or other obligation of Punjab under the Project Agreement;
and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Punjab shall be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been gii2n by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Punjab have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the staff positions referred to in Section 2.04 (a)
of the Project Agreement have been authorized;
(c) the Punjab Director General (Extension), whose qualifi-
cations and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association,
has been appointed;
(d) the Project Review Committee referred to in Section 2.09
(i) of the Project Agreement has been established; and
(e) the Project Revolving Fund has been established and
the initial deposit in the Fund has been made as provided in
Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be


﻿-6-
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Punjab, and is legally
binding upon Punjab in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 12, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Devv.Iopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    2,400,000       50%
(2) Vehicles, equip-               3,000,000
ment and materials
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                   100% of local
manufac-                                 expenditures
tured                                    (ex-factory)
(c) goods pro-                                70%
cured
locally
(3) Staff salaries                 3,700,000       30%
and travel
allowances
(4) Consultants'                   1,200,000       100%
services
(5) Overseas                         300,000       100% of foreign
training                                      expenditures
(6) Unallocated                    1,900,000
TOTAL         12,500,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 10 -
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen agricultural extension
services and develop adaptive research farms in the Project Area,
and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Staffing Program
Implementation of a staffing program to increase the number
of trained agricultural extension staff in the Project Area
by about 590 persons.
B.   Buildings
Construction or acquisition of about 1,330 units of extension
staff housing and service buildings.
C.   Equipment
1.   Provision -f equipment for extension services, including
bicycles, motor cycles and motor vehicles as appropriate
to the functional staff requirements.
2.   Provision of about 30 tractors (of about 80 hp) for
use in the Jhelum District.
D.   Adaptive Research Farms
Establishment and development of five adaptive research farms
through the provision of staff, buildings, equipment and
vehicles (including tractors).
E.   Extension Methodology
Introduction and implementation of a sound agricultural
extension methodology in the Project Area, with particular
emphasis on continuous training of extension workers and
regular farm visits.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be carried out in accordance with the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Vehicles may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided
that the aggregate expenditure of vehicles so procured shall not
exceed the equivalent of $350,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with


﻿- 13 -
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C


﻿- 14 -
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitarions to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 15 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and piior to the submission to the Association of
the first applicatio, for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants
Designations and Periods of Euployment
1.   Training and Extension Planning Consultant
November 15, 1978 to November 14, 1982
2.   Dry Farming and Soil Conservation Expert
November 15, 1978 to November 14, 1979
June 1, 1980 to September 30, 1980
August 1, 1981 to November 30, 1981
May 1, 1982 to August 31, 1982
3.   Farm Planning and Farm Management Consultant
July 1, 1979 to October 31, 1980
August 1, 1981 to October 31, 1981
March 1, 1982 to May 31, 1982
September 1, 1983 to November 30, 1983
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation Expert
June 1, 1979 to July 31, 1979
June 1, 1980 to July 31, 1980
June 1, 1982 to July 31, 1982


