CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 813 PAK
Project Agreement
(Punjab Extension and Agricultural
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated June 8, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 813 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, acting by its Governor   (hereinafter called
Punjab).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand
dollars ($12,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Punjab agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to r1ndertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Punjab shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 2.02. Punjab shall make adequate and timely budgetary
provisions for the implementation of the Project in line with


﻿-2-
the recommendations on financial requirements for the Project
as included in the Project Implementation Schedule for the
following year, including funds required for transportation of
extension workers as provided in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Punjab shall: (a) make the vehicles under Part
C.1 of the Project available to extension workers in the Project
Area; and (b) compensate, in accordance with prevailing Punjab
rules and regulations, extension workers in the Project Area
for expenditures incurred during duty travel.
Section 2.04. Punjab shall ensure that the appointments of
staff required for implementation of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the
Association.
For that purpose:
(a) Punjab shall authorize the staff positions specified
in the Schedule to this Agreement;
(b) Punjab shall appoint such staff in accordance with
such Schedule; and
(c) Punjab shall, after December 31, 1983, maintain the
Punjab Agriculture extension service staff at a level satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Punjab: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and servicee financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning


﻿-3-
the Project, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so
made available to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Punjab
and the Association, Punjab shall prepare and furnish or cause to
be prepared and furnished to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by Punjab and its departments and agencies responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and the Associ-
ation, of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. Punjab shall: (a) upon the introduction of
the methodology under Part E of the Project in any part of the
Project Area, release all Field Assistants assigned to that area
from responsibilities not directly related to agricultural exten-
sion services, including sale and application of pesticides; and
(b) by May 31, 1979, cause the release of extension staff of the
Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Board from the
responsibility of providing direct crop production advice to
farmers in the Project Area.
Section 2.07. Punjab shall make available sprayers, which
meet performance standards satisfactory to the Association as
established by the Punjab Plant Protection Institute, to meet the
requirements of farmers in the Project Area.
Section 2.08. Punjab shall establish and maintain a program
to sunitor and evaluate the Project in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association, including (i) monitoring by the
Planning and Policy Framing Cell of its Department of Agricul-
ture; (ii) evaluation by said Cell and by the Faculty of Agricul-
tural Economics of the Faisalabad Agricultural University; and
(iii) independent field investigations by such Faculty.
Section 2.09. Punjab shall establish and thereafter maintain,
with responsibilities, membership, staff and resources satisfac-
tory to the Association: (i) a Project Review Committee; and (ii)
by December 31, 1978 five District Advisory Committees.


﻿Section 2.10. Punjab shall carry out Part E of the Project
in accordance with a program and procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
For that purpose, Punjab shall:
(a) by October 31, 1978 furnish to the Association for
its review such program and procedures, accompanied by an imple-
mentation plan; and
(b) commence to implement by December 31, 1978 the program
and procedures in accordance with said implementation plan.
Section 2.11. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Punjab shall
establish or cause to be established, a revolving fund (herein-
after referred to as the Project Revolving Fund) to be adminis-
tered by the Director General (Extension). The Project Revolving
Fund is to be used exclusively to make payments for the cost of
goods and services required on the part of Punjab to carry out the
Project. Punjab shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the
Project Revolving Fund amounts as shall be, from time to time,
required on the part of Punjab to permit the payments heretofore
specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of the Project
Revolving Fund.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, Punjab shall make or cause to be
made an initial deposit in the Project Revolving Fund in an amount
equivalent to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) and there-
after shall on a monthly basis make or cause to be made such
deposits in the Project Revolving Fund as are required so that on
the first day of each calendar month there shall be available in
such Fund amounts sufficient to meet payments for the cost of the
Project required on the part of Punjab during the forthcoming
two months as estimated on the basis of the work schedules
relating thereto.
Section 2.12. (a) Punjab shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿-5-
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Punjab shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
Punjab responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
Section 3.02. Punjab shall: (i) have such accounts and
financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in saccordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Agsociation such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Punjab shall cause the buildings, equipment
and other facilities included in the Project to be operated
and maintained in accordance with standards satisfactory to the
Association and shall provide promptly as needed the funds
required for that purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Punjab of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For Punjab:
Chairman/Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Board/Department
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Lahore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by its
Chairman/Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development
Board/Department or such other person or persons as said Chairman/
Additional Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and Punjab
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION1
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Punjab Agricultural Extension Service
Incremental Staff
1979   1980   1981   1982   TOTAL
Director General (Extension)        1                            1
Director of Agriculture
(Adaptive Research)              1                             1
Deputy Director of Agriculture     3                             3
Assistant Director of
Agriculture                       7                            7
Senior Training Officer            5                             5
Senior Subject Matter Specialist   2      19                    21
Subject Matter Specialist                 42                    42
Junior Scientist                   2       19                   21
Agricultural Officer              45        5                   50
Field Assistant                    -      106    268    57     431
Total                   66      191    268    57     582


