Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23340-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 6, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 4, 2002)
Currency Unit = Philippines Pesos (PHP)
1.00 Peso = US$0.020
US$1.00 = 51.10
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank                 HDI      Human Development Index
APIS      Annual Poverty Indicators Survey       IT       Information Technology
AusAID    Australian Agency for International    JBIC     Japan Bank for International Cooperation
Development                            LGU      Local Govermnent Unit
BFAD      Bureau of Food and Drugs               MIS      Management Information Systems
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            MOOE     Maintenance & Other Operating Expenditure
CBIMS     Community-Based Information &          MTPDP    Medium-Term Philippines Development Plan
Monitoring System                     NCR       National Capital Region
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability       NGAS     New Government Accounting System
Assessment                            NSO       National Statistics Office
CIDSS     Comprehensive & Integrated Delivery of  PESS    Philippines Education Sector Study
Social Services                        PIM      Project Implementation Manual
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report  PLS      Procurement and Logistics Service
COA       Commission on Audit                    PMU      Project Management Unit
DBM       Department of Budget & Management      PSEP     Philippines Social Expenditure Priorities
DepEd     Department of Education                PTCA     Parent Teacher Community Association
DOH       Department of Health                   SEMP 1 First Social Expenditure Management Project
DOTS      Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course  SOE  Statement of Expenditure
DPWH      Departrnent of Public Works and        SSD      Social Sector Department
Highways                               TA       Technical Assistance
DSWD      Department of Social Welfare &         UDGS     Unified Data Gathering System
Development                            UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
EU        European Union                         UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
FM        Financial Management                   USAID    United States Agency for International
FMR       Financial Monitoring Reports                    Development
GOP       Government of the Philippines
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:  Robert Vance Pulley, EACPF
Sector Director:  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader:   Jayshree Balachander, EASHD



PHILIPPINES
SECOND SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            14
2. Financial                                                                            14
3. Technical                                                                            15
4. Institutional                                                                        15
5. Environmental                                                                        17
6. Social                                                                               18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      19



2. Critical risks                                                                    20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           21
2. Other                                                                             21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary    37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      38
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     50
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   51
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  52
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            54
MAP(S)
IBRD 27408R2



PHILIPPINES
Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: May 6, 2002                                Team Leader: Jayshree Balachander
Country Manager/Director: Robert V. Pulley       Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project ID: P069916                              Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management, MH -
Human Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance  Theme(s): Education; Health/Nutrition/Population; Social
Loan (SIM)                                       Protection; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
P[] Loan     [ ] Credit  [I] Grant     [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 100.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: N Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
p(] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): annuity
[ I Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:  Borrower to Pay from Own Resources
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     15.35          0.00         15.35
IBRD                                                         51.82         48.18        100.00
Total:                                                       67.17         48.18        115.35



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Responsible agency: DEPT. OF BUDGET & MGMT. WITH DEPED, DPWH, DOH AND DSWD
Department of Budget and Management (DBM)
Address: DBM Building I, Gen. Solano St., San Miguel, Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Underecretary Laura B. Pascua
Tel: (63-2) 735-4934          Fax: (63-2) 735-4961           Email: lbpascua@dbm.gov.ph
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Education (DepEd)
Address: DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City, Philippines
Contact Person: Undersecretary Emesto Pangan
Tel: (63-2) 633-9342          Fax: (63-2) 631-9640           Email: espangan@pacific.net.ph
Department of Health (DOH)
Address: San Lazaro Compound, Sta. Cruz, Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Undersecretary Alexander Padilla
Tel: (63-2) 743-8301          Fax: (63-2) 743-1829           Email: bihc@central.doh.gov.ph
Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD)
Address: DSWD Complex, Batasan Pambansa Complex, Constitution Hills, Quezon City
Contact Person: Undersecretary Clifford Burkley
Tel: (63-2) 931-9147       Fax: (63-2) 931-9146       Email: ccb@philonline.com
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
Address: DPWH Building, Bonifacio Drive, Port Area, Manila
Contact Person: Undersecretary Teodoro Encarnacion
Tel: (63-2) 527-4111       Fax: (63-2) 304-3020   Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006
Annual     12.00     24.00      30.00     34.00
Cumulative    12.00      36.00     66.00     100.00
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
MCS PAD F- R. MW. 2ar
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's core objective is to improve basic social services by (i) enhancing performance
(efficiency, quality and equity) and governance (transparency and accountability) in the three social sector
departments - (Education (DepEd), Health (DOH) and Social Welfare (DSWD)), and the school building
program implemented by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) - with the oversight
and support of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM); and (ii) providing quality inputs to
such services. The following strategies will be used to achieve the objective:
*      Achieve immediate efficiency gains and quality improvements through improved planning,
procurement and tracking for key inputs such as textbooks and drugs.
*      Continue with the medium to long term program for systems and process improvement
begun in the first Social Expenditure Management Project (SEMPI) - for financial
management, procurement and distribution, and information systems - and institutionalize
change in entire organization including regional offices. Cover additional areas for
expenditure management improvement/reform - teacher deployment and drug regulatory
systems.
*      Support government and civil society in the development of transparency and
accountability mechanisms through budget analysis, public expenditure tracking, client
feedback.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators of improvement in the delivery of basic social services
*   student:textbook ratios (1:2.5 to 1:1 in the four core subjects - math, science, English, Filipino)
* percentage of fully immunized children 61% (2001) to 67% (2005)
*   TB cure rates (80%)
Key indicators of improvement in management of social expenditures
*   percentage savings resulting from improved procurement of textbooks, drugs
* FM improvement
spread sheet based automated accounting systems installed
management reporting established
*   Procurement Improvement
Procurement units reconstituted
Procurement processes streamlined
E-procurement implemented
*   Teacher Deployment
Reduction in number of "red" zone schools - student:teacher ratio (STR>50) from 500 to <100
Inter-quantile ratios (IQRs) for each division close to 1
Institutionalization of new teacher deployment system
*   Drug Regulatory System
Performance standards for the Bureau of Food and Drugs defined and maintained
Key indicators for improved governance and accountability
*   Develop and implement an independent Public Expenditure Tracking System
*   Increase in client satisfaction with basic social services according to a Report Card Survey
- 3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-55(IFC/R9946)      Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/11/99
The project will support the overall CAS goal of re-establishing a pattern of rapid and sustained
poverty reduction. Specific strategies that are supported include (i) strengthening public expenditure
management and governance, and (ii) improving investments in human resources (education and health)
and ensuring the efficient provision of basic social services. The CAS points out the need for Bank support
to help improve the performance of publicly funded social programs which are heavily utilized by the poor.
The CAS identifies the SEMP type approach as a useful instrument for both protecting basic social
services during a period of budgetary constraints and for effecting much needed improvements in public
expenditure management in the social sector, so that available funds are used effectively and efficiently.
The project will also support the achievement of specific social sector development targets of the CAS such
as increasing primary school completion rates, and reducing rates of infant mortality and TB incidence.
The project's responsiveness to and fit with the CAS have been validated jointly by the Bank and the
Government during discussions on the country lending program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Wide Issues
Overview of Issues in the HD Sectors. By intemational standards, the Philippines is considered a
medium performer in respect of human development overall although it outperforms countries of similar
GDP with regards to access to education and gender equity. When indicators are disaggregated, significant
disparities become apparent between the lowest and highest income groups as well as among regions. Poor
households rely heavily on publicly provided services (schools and health facilities) which are free or
low-cost, but are widely considered to be of substantially poorer quality than private services (World Bank:
Filipino Report Card on Pro-Poor Services). Poor quality is reflected in low student achievement scores
in education, high mortality and morbidity in health, and overall low levels of satisfaction with public social
services. Insufficient and inefficiently allocated and executed budgets, coupled with weak govemance by
National Govemment Agencies (DepEd and DOH) and by Local Govemment Units (LGUs), are mainly
responsible for the poor quality of services.
Basic Education. The Philippines has a good track record in education provision with enrollment
rates at all levels exceeding expected averages. However, there are at least two areas of concern: low
primary school completion (66% on average) in certain regions and amongst the poor; and poor
performance in math and science. Opportunity and direct costs, relevance and quality of education are
reasons for the high dropout rates. Poorly qualified math/science teachers, inappropriate sequencing and
lack of good textbooks and materials account for poor performance in math and science. The 1998
Philippines Education Sector Study (PESS) (World Bank, Asian Development Bank: Philippines
Education for the 21st Century), identified the following priorities for basic education: (i) adequately
finance basic education inputs and lower unit cost by raising internal efficiency; (ii) improve teacher
effectiveness through better deployment and improved preparation of teachers; (iii) increase local
participation and accountability; (iv) improve access for the poor through new strategies, including
scholarships; and (v) improve student learning through curriculum reform, provision of textbooks, use of
vernacular in lower primary grades, and a longer basic education cycle.
-4 -



Basic Health Care. The Philippines exhibits a disease pattern typical of middle income countries
undergoing a health transition, with non-communicable diseases on the rise, while infectious diseases
remain a threat. There are large variations in health status by income level. The country has one of the
highest population growth rates in the region (2.35%). The devolution of health services to LGUs in 1991
was intended to make primary health care more responsive to local users. The impact of devolution has not
been systematically evaluated, but the process has been difficult with poor preparation on the part of both
LGUs and DOH. The main problems identified with the current system include insufficient mechanisms
for ensuring adequately funded and technically supported public health programs, a weak hospital system
and an uneven distribution of health human resources. Regulation of the quality and cost of health services
and health products remains weak.
Social Welfare Services. The main sources of vulnerability in the Philippines are related to climate
and economic instability, and in certain parts of the country, political unrest. At the household level, this
results in lower real incomes due to loss of crops, reduced employment or higher prices, especially for food.
Private transfers remain the main safety net for those affected. The need for welfare services is great and
much more than the DSWD, a small and reasonably well-managed social welfare agency can address.
However the department's programs systematically target poor, disadvantaged and extremely vulnerable
populations and provide some measure of a safety net. About one third of the agency's annual budget of
US$40 million is allocated to the Comprehensive and Integrated Development of Social Services (CIDSS),
which aims to ensure basic needs are met in the poorest municipalities.
Social Expenditures. The Philippines Government has accorded relatively high priority to the social
sector. Education receives the largest share in the budget (excluding IRA and debt-service) under the 1987
Constitution; the share of social expenditures in the last decade, in the national and local government
budgets has increased by about 25% and 100% respectively. The social sector was largely protected
during the recent fiscal crisis (although there has been a small decline in its share of the 2001 budget).
The Government is the dominant provider of basic education, accounting for 92% of elementary and
70% of secondary enrollment. The public sector is a relatively small player at the tertiary level, although
the continued creation of state universities and colleges has increased tertiary enrollment in public
institutions from 10% in 1981-82 to 24% in 1997-98. Basic education expenditures are progressive, but
higher education expenditures favor rich households. More than 90% of the basic education budget is
currently allocated to personnel costs squeezing funds available for funding maintenance and other
operating expenditures (MOOE) such as textbooks, training, furniture. In per pupil terms MOOE in 2000
was only a quarter of what it had been in 1990. Unit cost ratios are estimated to be higher in public than in
private schools, mainly because of poor governance and expenditure management. As a percentage share of
total costs, household contribution to education is highest at the elementary level (57% compared with 29%
for secondary and 14% for tertiary).
Public health expenditures at about 2% of GDP, have been growing at about 12% a year in nominal
terms (3.8% real). The private sector accounts for more than half of total national health expenditures
(55%), almost exclusively for personal care services. The public sector accounted for 38.6% of
expenditures which occur equally at two levels - national and local. Health insurance coverage is minimal
with less than 2% of poor households covered by social insurance. More than half the DOH budget is
devoted to public hospitals and about 20% to public health programs. LGUs mainly find primary health
care services, but spend more than 70% of their budgets on personnel services, leaving limited resources for
drugs, supplies and facilities improvement.
-5 -



Social welfare services effectively cover some of the poorest and most vulnerable sections, but are
severely limited in scope and coverage. There are few formal social safety nets. Publicly mandated
pensions and social security programs are limited to wage earners, who constitute less than half the
working population, and they provide limited benefits.
The Government's Strategy
Education. The Government would like to improve access to and quality of education by
implementing the following strategies: For access, ensuring a school in every barangay, and expanding
secondary schools in hard to reach areas. Compulsory collection of funds/fees from parents of public
school students has been disallowed by DepEd. For quality, introducing a number of reforms in basic
education as follows: school based management; partnerships (LGUs, civil society, communities, the
private sector); improving efficiency of public expenditures; curriculum reform; assessment reform and
institutionalizing in-service training (INSET). DepEd would also like to implement alternative learning
systems and demand side interventions.
Health. The Government's response to continuing unsatisfactory health outcomes is embodied in
its Health Sector Reform Agenda (HSRA), a strategy adopted by the Department of Health (DOH) in
1999. Five major areas of reform are proposed: (i) provide fiscal autonomy to government hospitals, to
reduce their dependence on direct subsidies from government; (ii) secure funding for priority public health
programs, using multi-year budgeting to guarantee the needed continuity in resource availability; (iii)
promote the development of local health systems and ensure their effective performance by engaging local
government units in cooperative cost sharing arrangements to improve local health services and providing
them with the necessary technical assistance to enhance capacity for governance of health systems; (iv)
strengthen the capacities of health regulatory agencies with special emphasis on the Bureau of Food and
Drugs (BFAD); and (v) expand the coverage of the National Health Insurance Program. The DOH has
developed an implementation plan to introduce reforms in a phased manner in "convergence sites" around
the country.
Govemance. The Department of Budget and Management with the assistance of COA, is
spear-heading a number of reforms designed to improve budget execution and monitoring, and the
efficiency of public expenditures. The list of targeted strategies include the development of a medium term
expenditure framework, performance management systems, financial management reform, and increased
transparency and efficiency in procurement. The underlying direction of these changes is to improve
accountability while increasing the autonomy of implementing agencies. Recently, the Government has
also expressed an interest in improving accountability and transparency by involving the public in budget
process, particularly budget monitoring, and institutionalizing the implementation of a "report card" on
pro-poor public services. The government is also committed to improving the quality of social services for
the poor and implementing a number of pro-poor policies to reduce the incidence of poverty and promote
social harmony.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis and in view of the poor performance of the Bank's HD
portfolio in the Philippines, the first Social Expenditure Management Project (SEMP 1) focussed on
protecting public expenditures for basic social services and improving public expenditure management
(procurement and financial management in particular) in the departments of Education and Social Welfare'.
The Department of Health was not included as it was in the midst of a major reorganization.
- 6 -



The project is in its third year of implementation (due to close December 31, 2002); and has been
successful in the following ways:
* timely provision of basic inputs, including more than 35 million textbooks;
* significant improvements in procurement and savings of about 40% in the cost of textbooks,
desks, and chairs for a total savings of US $20 million;
*  improvements to fnancial management and procurement processes and capacity.
The GOP requested the Bank for a follow-on operation to complete the on-going reforms in
procurement, financial management and information technology, institutionalize the improvements at
national and regional levels and expand the reform agenda to other aspects of expenditure management.
High GOP commitment to expenditure reform and success of the approach are important reasons for
continuing with the strategy to focus on improving public social expenditures. Taken together, the two
SEMP projects amount to programmatic lending for improving basic social services through a series of
focussed social expenditure reforms for which there is a high level of government commitment, and for
which necessary institutional capacity is built.
The approach would address some of the key recommendations of the PESS including adequate
financing of basic education inputs and lowering of unit costs; better deployment of teachers and adequate
supply of textbooks. More than 90% of the DepEd budget of $2 billion per year is spent on personnel
costs. Correcting major deficiencies that exist in teacher deployment would have a significant impact on
the efficiency of resource use. The planning, procurement, allocation tracking and quality of all other
inputs, will likewise be significantly improved. The quality and cost of textbooks in particular, and the
quality of the school building program implemented by DPWH, which are the major non-personnel
expenditures in the department, will improve significantly as a result of the project. Other PESS
recommendations are covered by other Bank or donors projects. The on-going Third Elementary Education
project covers school based management. Improved access for drop-outs from low income households
through targeted scholarships is proposed in the new CAS. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is
preparing a sector reform project focused on the financing of higher education.
For the health sector, the project will support key public health programs and launch a
procurement, financial management and information technology improvement program in the agency. It
will develop and help maintain performance standards for the drugs regulatory authority, the Bureau of
Food and Drugs (BFAD) . The Bank is currently preparing a Health Sector Reform Project, to pilot the
implementation of the GOP's Health Sector Reform Agenda. The Women's Health and Safe Motherhood
Project', addresses population concems.
DSWD performed well in SEMP 1, and will receive support for its core programs, CIDSS. Support
for CIDSS will be phased out as a new community development project, Kalahi, under preparation for
Bank support, is implemented.
The project will support increased transparency, accountability and responsiveness in the execution
of the budget and civil society initiatives in analyzing and demystifying budgets, tracking expenditures, and
leakages, and obtaining client feedback. This will strengthen the sustainability of expenditure improvement
initiatives supported under the project.
The project closes in June 2002, but a follow-on project has been proposed in the CAS.
- 7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project activities are grouped into three main components. The first will provide budgetary
support and improve the cost and quality of inputs for key programs in education, health and social welfare
(some retroactive financing for items urgently needed - vaccines, TB drugs and textbook - is included).
The second will support the implementation of core management systems improvement to institutionalize
and sustain improvements in cost and quality of inputs. These include financial management, procurement,
management information systems (MIS), and human resources management systems (teacher deployment in
particular). The third will develop and implement civil society led initiatives to enhance transparency and
accountability of the budget - including budget analysis, public expenditure tracking, and client feedback.
A. Strengthening Key Budgetarv Programs
A. 1   Basic Education Services cover the provision of key educational inputs such as textbooks,
classrooms, and repairs and maintenance of existing schools. For each of these inputs, planning,
procurement, quality, distribution and monitoring will be improved. For textbooks, international
competitive bidding procedures in SEMP 1 resulted in significant savings and irnproved textbook quality.
These gains will be consolidated while improving manuscript evaluation procedures, assessing textbook
availability and utilization and taldng action to ensure that textbooks are efficiently and effectively used so
as to have a positive impact on student performance. The construction of classrooms using competitive
bidding procedures will help bridge a large backlog while benchmarking cost and quality. Responsibility
for school repairs and maintenance will be formally decentralized to the school level. The project will
finance small grants (up to $10,000) for minor repairs to school buildings.
A. 2   Public Health Services cover the procurement of drugs, vaccines and supplies for important and
effective public health programs - TB control, the Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI), and the
prevention and control of rabies. The recent decline in a successful immunization program will be reversed
by ensuring the timely and efficient procurement and distribution of vaccines. A steady supply of TB
control drugs will be assured to the DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course) program being
implemented with technical support from WHO. DOTS has entailed improvements/changes in diagnostic
policies and microscopy services, case-holding strategies, treatment regimen, drug supply and monitoring.
The project will finance the purchase of vaccines for the Rabies Action Project in the Visayas which aims
to declare the Visayas Region a rabies-free zone by 2005. The program combines the strategies of mass
dog immunization and dog population control.
A. 3   Social Services are provided through the Comprehensive Integrated Delivery of Social Services
(CIDSS). CIDSS is a proven and highly successful barangay-centered activity in poor municipalities. The
poorest barangays are identified using minimum basic needs indicators. Communities use the same
indicators to determine their most urgent needs, and subsequently plan projects to address these needs.
Examples include small portable waterworks, sanitation (household toilets, drainage garbage and disposal),
day-care centers, (improvements, materials), skills training, farm to market roads, drying pavements,
livelihood development projects. The project will finance small grants to communities (up to $10,000) for
such initiatives.
-8 -



B.     Systems Improvement and ReforrmL
Technical assistance and training will be provided under this component for the following: (i)
further implementation of the financial management, procurement and MIS/IT improvement program
initiated under SEMP 1 in DepEd and DSWD and support for financial management, procurement and
MIS/IT improvement in DOH; (ii) teacher deployment and human resources planning in DepEd; and (iii)
strengthening of the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD).
B. 1   FM/Procurement/MIS/IT. The strategy for financial management improvements under SEMP 2
would focus on introducing computerized database management systems that will facilitate the introduction
of the new National Government Accounting System (NGAS), roll-out of the flash management reporting
system, and skills upgrading of FM staff. Procurement improvements will focus on building capacity in the
agencies for planning, streamlining processes, improving payment mechanisms, performing price analysis
and maintaining benchmarks, tracking distribution and implementing e-procurement. The project will
support an in-house effort to upgrade the Unified Data Gathering System (UDGS) and for Personnel
Information Systems in DepEd, using standard database software, and providing necessary training at all
levels. The IT improvement program will develop IT infrastructure, upgrade IT knowledge and skills,
develop strategic plans for information technology and create a governance and organizational structure for
IT in the departments.
B.2    Teacher Deployment and Human Resources Planning. A study of teacher deployment issues
carried out during project preparation provides the basis for this component. It was found that while the
national distribution of teachers is fairly equitable, the regional distribution among divisions is less so, and
that at the final, most local level, the distribution of teachers among the schools shows major inequalities in
most divisions. The following activities will be implemented during the project: (i) monitoring teacher
deployment; (ii) deploying new teachers under a improved allocation system so that teachers can be
targeted to the most needy schools, and institutionalizing the system; (iii) identifying and eliminating
long-term vacancies; (iv) transfer of vacant teacher positions from teacher surplus to teacher shortage
schools and (v) review and reverse (where appropriate) the designation of teachers to non-teaching roles.
B.3    Strengthening of the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD). On the basis of a diagnostic assessment
of BFAD, an action plan for the improvement of BFAD will be implemented to strengthen BFAD's
capacity to meet agreed performance standards with regard to the rate of issue of product registration
certificates, accreditation and conduct of testing and inspections, and issue of Good Manufacturing Practice
certification.
C.     Strengthening Transparency and Accountabilitv.
The project will support the development and institutionalization through the provision of technical
assistance and training, of initiatives to strengthen transparency and accountability in the various stages of
the budget process. These include collaborative efforts with civil society and the private sector in analyzing
and demystifying budgets, tracking expenditures and leakages, (including validating the outputs of projects
and monitoring procurement processes in national agencies) and obtaining client feedback. Technical
assistance will be provided to review and refine methodologies for each of these activities. Second, the
activities will be linked through a focus on the social sector agencies. Third, there will be at least one
round of implementation of the initiatives. The planning, implementation and review of the results of the
initiatives would be done in a collaborative manner with the agencies to enable them to imnprove
performance and services, and with the Congress and the public to strengthen accountability. Finally, the
-9-



tools that underpin these initiatives will be popularized and made available to interested citizen groups for
continuous national and local application.
.  .        Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)       Total     (US$M)    financing
A. Strengthening Key Budgetary
Programs
A.1. Basic Education                                   75.10      65.1     63.75      63.8
A.2. Public Health Services                            26.75      23.2     26.75      26.8
A.3. Social Services                                   11.00       9.5      8.50       8.5
B. Systems Improvement and Reform                       1.00       0.9      0.00       0.0
C. Strengthening Transparency and                       0.50       0.4      0.00       0.0
Accountability
Total Project Costs                  114.35      99.1     99.00      99.0
Front-end fee                     1.00       0.9      1.00        1.0
Total Financing Required                   115.35     100.0     100.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the objective underlying current budgetary reforms of transforming the
implementing agencies from control driven, inefficient, non-transparent systems to more responsive,
results-oriented, and accountable entities, in a transparent and productive government environment. This
will involve changes to existing government financial management systems, establishment of transparent
procurement systems, improvements to information and regulatory systems and development of standards
for technology. Improved management of resources (e.g., teacher deployment) based on timely,
transparent, and reliable information, etc., will involve a restructuring of the related bureaucracy,
particularly with reference to the planning, procurement and financial units, which are now separate and
poorly linked. Procurement reform includes the development of a transparent and efficient system covering
planning, cash requirement forecasting, timeliness and transparency in the procurement process and
payments, e-procurement and improving departmental systems and capacity. Transparency in budget
execution and listening and responding to the poor are other key areas of change/reform.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are the poor and disadvantaged sections of the population
who rely heavily on publicly provided basic social services. The immediate benefit of the project is to
significantly increase the availability of key inputs to improve the quality of basic social services.
Specifically, the project will increase the availability of textbooks, new and repaired classrooms, and drugs
for key public health programs.
The medium to long term benefit is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public social
sector agencies through improved procurement and financial management (savings of about 40% resulted
from such improvements under the SEMP 1), improved allocation and utilization of resources based on
good information and well articulated policies, improvements in the work environment of the agencies and
increased transparency, accountability and responsiveness through the public expenditure tracking and
report card processes.
- 10 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented for a period of 3.5 years, from September 2002 to December
2005. Overall responsibility for the project will be vested in the Department of Budget and Management
(DBM) in collaboration with the Commission on Audit (COA) and the line agencies (DepEd, DOH,
DSWD and DPWH). The central and regional offices of the implementing line agencies (DECS, DOH,
DSWD and DPWH), will be responsible for implementation of the specific project components.
An inter-agency Steering Committee, chaired by the DBM Secretary, and including the Agency
Undersecretaries and project directors, will provide overall strategic direction for the project, review project
progress and solve any inter-agency issues that may arise.
Project Management Units (PMUs) in the DBM and in each of the line agencies will support and
facilitate the implementation of each component within their departments. These units, which will
coordinate all project activities of each implementing agency, are headed by a full time manager who
reports to the designated Project Director (Undersecretary or Assistant Secretary) of the Agency. The
PMUs will: (i) support and facilitate the expeditious implementation of each component in conformity with
agreed procurement procedures; (ii) review and validate payment requests from implementing units and
prepare statements of expenditure; (iii) complete agreed monitoring reports and facilitate monthly project
monitoring; (iv) ensure that agreed benchmarks are met. The PMUs will be staffed by a core group of
agency personnel with accounting and monitoring responsibilities. Each of the agencies will also establish
regional project management groups comprising the regional directors and their planning and financial
officers.
A financial management assessment of the three implementing agencies was carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The Government is implementing a new government accounting system
starting year 2002. The recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
concluded that the new accounting system conforms with generally accepted accounting principles. The
accounting and reporting of the project expenditures will be subject to accounting policies and procedures
of the government's new accounting system. In addition, Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in formats
agreed with the Bank will be produced quarterly. In order to improve planning and budgeting, performance
monitoring and overall financial management of the Project, an action plan to improve systems and carry
out staff training was agreed.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternatives to a focussed public expenditure management reform approach are
sector-wide reform programs in each of the social sectors, or sector investment projects. There are several
reasons why the expenditure management improvement approach takes precedence over the other two
alternatives in the Philippines. First, from the Bank's perspective, the performance of Bank funded
investment projects in the social sectors has been problematic as a result mainly of procurement and
financial management weaknesses in the implementing agencies. No new projects can be initiated without
the assurance that procurement and financial management systems are in place. It should be noted that the
new management in the agencies with support from SEMP I, have succeeded in making significant
improvements, and that three projects in the portfolio have moved from unsatisfactory to satisfactory
status. The improvements need to be consolidated and institutionalized. The second, mainly from the
Government's perspective, is the priority for expenditure reform, given the overall fiscal constraint in the
aftermath of the East Asian financial crisis, which limits the opportunity for new investments (all agencies
- 11 -



have to live within tight budget ceilings, much of it committed to on-going/recurrent expenditures) and
makes it all the more urgent to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of available finances. The third is
management/project implementation weaknesses in the agencies, and legislative constraints which make it
difficult for them to manage and execute complex projects.
The project offers a real opportunity for imnproving the way the agencies currently do business,
greatly enhancing the cost-effectiveness of available finances and progressively reforming the social sector
agencies. Moreover these initiatives are strongly supported by DBM and COA in the context of the
government's move towards improved governance and therefore have a greater likelihood of success.
Further, the project will help lay a strong foundation for any subsequent investment program or reform
agenda in the social sector agencies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Support the provision of basic social  Social Expenditure          S             S
services in the aftermath of the East  Management Project
Asia crisis and initiate procurement and
financial management reform
(Jointly with ADB). Improve the   Early Childhood Development      S             S
quality and coverage of early childhood
development services in 3 regions with
worst ECD indicators.
S             S
(Jointly with JBIC). Improve access  Third Elementary Education
and quality of education in 26 poorest  Project
provinces.
(Jointly with ADB, AusAID and other Women's Health and Safe        S             S
donors). Improve the delivery of  Motherhood Project
women's health services
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank            Secondary Education
Improvement Project
Non-Formal Education Project
Integrated Community Health
Services Project
Mindanao Basic Education
Project
USAID (Governance, including      Accelerating Growth,
procurement and financial management Investment and Liberalization
reform)                           with Equity (AGILE)
CIDA (Governance, including       Policy Training and Technical
- 12 -



procurement reform)              Assistance Facility (PTTAF)
UNDP                              Governance Improvement
Facility
UNDP                              Support to Family Planning,
Health Insurance
UNDP                              Gender Equality
AusAID                            Project on Basic Education
(PROBE)
EU                                HIV/AIDS Project
JBIC                              Education Facilities
Improvement Project
JBIC                              Science and Mathematics
Education Manpower
Development Project
UNFPA                             Family Planning and
Reproductive Health
UNICEF                            Women's and Child Health and
Nutrition
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The most important lesson from the recent/on-going projects in the Bank human development
portfolio in the Philippines is that the implementation of Bank funded projects can be seriously impeded
without adequate implementation capacity and management oversight in the implementing agency.
Complex projects in weak institutional settings are particularly vulnerable. Lack of capacity and weak
governance for procurement can derail the implementation of all components and the project's impact on the
ground. Institutional capacity, including management ownership, and credible actions to address capacity
issues are therefore critical for project success. The social expenditure management projects have been
designed specifically to bring about the necessary system-wide management improvements that will benefit
future operations as well as present investments.
Lessons common to projects Bankwide (OED summary) and reflected in the portfolio of human
development projects in the Philippines include the following: overly complex projects undermine
implementation and effectiveness (e.g., Third Elementary Education Project); software components are
particularly difficult to implement and are often constrained by institutional and incentive factors (e.g.,
implementation of a new drug distribution system in the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood project);
projects implemented during or immediately after major institutional changes are likely to be poorly
implemented if the new system does not stabilize quickly (e.g., Urban Health and Nutrition Project in the
aftermath of the devolution of health services); and monitoring and evaluation is usually inadequate to
determiine whether the project did in fact succeed in meeting its objectives (all projects). In response, the
project will focus on a core set of objectives for which there is high commitment from the Borrower.
Special attention will be paid to institutional issues and incentives in designing the system reform and
software components. There will be close monitoring of project inputs and outputs.
Lessons from SEMP 1 are that Borrower ownership can result in vastly improved project
performance. However, one should not underestimate the time needed to implement change, either due to
opposition from affected parties (e.g. legislators' opposition to competitive bidding for school buildings) or
from technical difficulties in dealing with new procedures. Lack of adequate staffing of the PMU,
- 13 -



particularly for financial management, delayed the submission of statements of expenditure and other
financial reports. SEMP 2 will require adequate staffing of the PMU and have a more realistic
disbursement schedule.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project has been requested by the Government during programming discussions with the
Philippines Country Unit. In fact, the Government has been so pleased with this approach to lending that
they would like to see it extended to other sectors - agriculture in the first instance. A Japanese PHRD
grant was obtained for project preparation and is being managed by the DBM. The DBM together with the
management of the line agencies has also been active in defining the issues and seeking solutions. Most
recently, in the preparation of the teacher deployment study, (financed by a PHRD grant), the DepEd
Research and Statistics Division prepared sample teacher distribution maps (using an under utilized GIS
system installed by UNICEF) for purposes of the study. The data interpretation and use so impressed the
DepEd and DBM, that under the leadership of the two Undersecretaries, the regional offices have been
trained and maps are being prepared for the entire country for use in subsequent teacher deployment
decision making. Part of what was proposed to be done under the project is thus likely to be installed even
before the study is completed. DOH for its part, has completed international competitive bidding for the
first round of drugs procurement. The performance of the DSWD in SEMP 1, finishing ahead of schedule,
speaks to the agency's commitment to the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will ensure the timely and efficient delivery of inputs to key social sector programs
during a period of fiscal constraints. International experience in procurement, financial and public
expenditure reform can be shared as a result of Bank involvement. Significant and immediate cash benefits
will accrue as a result of using international competitive bidding procedures for drugs and textbooks.
Monitoring and evaluation of government programs and the budget will also improve significantly. Quality
technical assistance to support reforms (both during project preparation and implementation) can have
far-reaching and significant impact as evidenced by the improvements to teacher deployment that have
already been initiated.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Based on experience in the first Social Expenditure Management Project, using an average savings rate of
40% in the costs of items procured alone, the quantity of real resources purchaseable increases by 67%
(1/1-0.4). This two-thirds increase in supply amounts to $46 million, yielding a return of about 40% on
investment. This does not include benefits from investment in basic education, public health and social
services, such as increased future earnings, as well as imputable economic value to deaths averted or
disability-adjusted-life-years saved.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Weaknesses in the government accounting systems overall including "obligation" accounting and
the existing government chart of accounts, are being addressed by COA through the recently developed
National Govemment Accounting System (NGAS). There have been issues in the past with the readiness
- 14 -



of COA's products for implementation in the agencies, particularly of computerized accounting systems.
The project will support the implementation of NGAS in the social sector agencies.
The investment type operation that is being proposed cannot meet the immediate cash requirements
of the government as an adjustment project would, but has had the advantage of carefully protecting the
targeted social expenditures and of ensuring sustained attention on the proposed reform agenda and
therefore, of results.
Fiscal Impact:
As the programs funded under the project are priority government programs normally funded in the
budget, the project will not result in any additional fiscal burden to the government. On the other hand,
considerable savings are expected from improvements in public expenditure management as in the case of
SEMP 1.
3. Technical:
Best practice methods in the provision of basic social services - basic education inputs such as
textbooks, school buildings, school repairs and rehabilitation, and basic public health programs
(TB-DOTS, EPI) will be implemented. The systems reform programs for financial management and
procurement have benefitted from extensive diagnostic studies during SEMP 1 and project preparation. A
Japanese PHRD grant for project preparation has helped finance the development of implementation plans
for the reform components. Civil society monitoring is linked to Bankwide and international experiences in
accountability mechanisms including public expenditure tracking surveys.
4. Institutional:
The new leadership in the key implementing agencies is committed to the reform agenda. The
DBM has been at the helm of a national budget reform process including the implementation of a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework, performance management, procurement reform and civil society
involvement in the budget process. The SEMP Loans are being used to develop and pilot systems and
processes for these reforms that can be replicated in other agencies. For the social sector agencies, the
recent movement of four projects in the portfolio from unsatisfactory to satisfactory status, and the
successful implementation of SEMP I (which has resulted in a savings to the government of about $20
milllion) is evidence of management commitment and capacity for improved performance.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The new management at DepEd has already done much to salvage the reputation of the department,
as evinced by the results of recent public opinion polls showing the agency had moved up from the 15th to
the 5th rank in terms of best performing agencies and the second most improved. The management has
declared commitment to improving efficiency and transparency at DepEd, have carried out significant
improvements in procurement and have begun implementing the new teacher deployment system developed
during project preparation. The DPWH district offices vary in their capacity and commitment to reform of
the school building program. To minimize risk, only about a third of the offices is expected to participate
in the project. The DOH underwent a major "re-engineering" under the previous administration. A Unified
PMO dealing with foreign assisted projects appears to be functioning effectively. The current Secretary
has expressed his intention to consolidate changes and pursue the health sector reform agenda. The DSWD
implemented its portion of SEMP I efficiently. It has a well-known NGO activist in charge who subscribes
to project goals.
- 15 -



4.2 Project management:
The team that is managing SEMP 1 is in place and has been involved in the preparation of the
project for the government. The leadership provided by the Undersecretaries of the three departments -
DBM, DepEd and DSWD - in SEMP 1 has been exemplary and can be expected to continue in the new
project. Intra-agency coordination and PMUs need to be strengthened in DepEd and constituted in DOH.
Financial management was poor at the beginning of SEMP 1, mainly because of lack of full time persons in
each PMU for this task. This has since been corrected.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was prepared in 1997 and one is currently
being finalized. The reports underscore the fact that public procurement in the Philippines is not efficient,
is prone to misuse and abuse and reduces value for money of public funds. The key reasons why the
system does not function well include the following:
(a) a multiplicity of uncoordinated laws and administrative issuances which create confusion, cause
delays and make enforcement difficult; (b) absence of a single professionally competent agency to
formulate rules, disseminate issues and ensure they are implemented; (c) lack of professional
capacity, skills and training among persons implementing procurement activities; (d) serious
delays in registration and licensing of contractors and suppliers; (e) political interference; and (f)
procrastination due to risk aversion and other reasons.
The current administration is committed to improving governance and issued two new Executive
Orders (E.O. 262 of 2000 an E.O. 40 of 2001) towards streamlining procurement processes. An omnibus
law is also likely to to be passed. The CPAR is identifying changes that need to be implemented as part of
a long term government-wide procurement reform program, and these are likely to be the subject of an
upcoming adjustment operation.
Assessment of the procurement capacity of the four agencies responsible for the bulk of the
procurement under the project was carried out. The assessment involved review of the procurement
policies and procedures adopted and implemented in the agencies, and how they actualy implemented
procurement in SEMP 1 and other Bank and locally funded projects. The findings of the CPAR are
generally applicable to the agencies. However, procurement under Bank-financed projects is not affected
because of waivers of local laws as part of the Loan Agreement. Further, the present leadership of the
agencies is interested in addressing issues of efficiency, economy and transparency in procurement as
proven by their performance in SEMP 1. Overall, the capacities of the agencies were rated as follows:
DepEd - fair, DSWD - good, DOH - poor; DPWH - poor.
To mitigate the risks, a series of actions will be undertaken under the project. Among others:
institutional capability will be strengthened within the departments through technical assistance covering
procurement, financial management and information systems to be on board by January 2003; DOH will
implement procurement through UN agencies beginning with this year's vaccine requirements; by August
2002, DepEd with appropriate technical assistance, will set up and build capacity in a single procurement
unit and DOH will revamp the Procurement and Logistics Services (PLS) to streamline and improve all the
procurement functions of the two departments. A departmental order-mandating the new procedures has
been issued by DPWH.
- 16 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed recently and was
discussed with the Government. The main issues identified were the change over of the government
accounting system implemented on January 1, 2002 and the risks involved in implementing the new system
in some 2000 plus accounting units, computerization of the new accounting system, development of new
accounting policy and procedures manuals and training of staff. These issues are being addressed as part
of implementation of the CFAA recommendations. The main risks include the implementation of a new
accounting system (mostly manual) and the need for extensive staff training; lack of coordination of
planning and budget functions; weak linkages between physical and financial plans; and the absence of an
effective internal audit function to ensure compliance with internal control procedures. These are being
addressed with agency level action programs under the project, except for the internal audit function which
is addressed through the implementation of CFAA action plans.
Compliance with audit covenants in Bank projects in the portfolio is 90%. Slow disbursements
have been a problem across the portfolio. SEMP I is behind schedule per the very ambitious initial
forecasts ($100 million in 2.5 years), but is performing well by current budget and project execution
standards in the Philippines (not including savings of $35 million resulting from lower costs and peso
devaluation, disbursements are at about $50 million after two years of project implementation). Moreover,
the project is likely to be fully disbursed as scheduled as all the major procurement items have been
contracted. SOEs are being submitted more regularly and with fewer errors as full time staff have been
appointed to the PMOs. With the experience gained in SEMP 1, fewer difficulties are expected in SEMP
2.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project does not present any significant environmental risks. Activities involving minor
infrastructure development and rehabilitation shall comply with all relevant national regulations for
sanitation, solid waste management, building codes, and land use zoning regulations. For sub-projects
under CIDSS, a negative list has been agreed, to rule out purchases of pesticides, insecticides, and/or other
harmful chemicals. The criteria to be adopted for sub-projects are specified in the Project Implementation
Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 17 -



N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key issue is to seek ways to make basic social services in the Philippines responsive to the
poor. The poor are major consumers of public social services, particularly primary health care and basic
education, but a recent consumer survey (the Filipino Report Card) suggests that they are dissatisfied with
the quality of public services. More recently, a number of disaffected urban youth participated in a
rebellion against the current government, which is regarded by them as representative of the middle and
upper classes while the former president appeared to them to champion the poor. The government is
therefore actively engaged in defining it's pro-poor agenda. The project will support these initiatives
including some of the recommendations arising from an analysis of the consumer survey. For example,
lack of drugs at primary health care facilities and textbooks in schools are important reasons why the poor
are dissatisfied with social services. The project will finance these inputs and ensure that they are delivered
where they are needed the most. The report card will be repeated towards the end of the project to capture
changes in levels of satisfaction. The project will also promote a budget advocacy and monitoring effort
that involves the monitoring of project inputs by the beneficiaries, for example, parent-teacher associations
in schools and women's groups in health centers. It is expected that as a result beneficiaries will be aware
of the benefits that should accrue to them under the project and can ensure that these are in fact delivered.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The results of the consumer survey have been used in project design. In addition, clients and
beneficiaries will be involved in project implementation through the budget advocacy and monitoring
component.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations are responsible for designing and implementing the
budget advocacy and monitoring project as well as the Filipino report card on pro-poor services.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The strengthening and reform of govemment management systems, the support of pro-poor
services, the budget advocacy and monitoring initiative as well as the survey of poor consumers are all
designed to support social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Filipino Report Card on Pro-Poor Services will be repeated at the end of the project, and
community based monitoring of budget execution will take place during project.
- 18 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project complies with the Bank's safeguard policies. For the small and scattered sub-projects,
the Project Implementation Manual includes the following provisions to ensure their observation:
*      All land acquisition for a sub-project would be done between a willing buyer and seller or a willing
donor and the community, all following commercial practices in the area.
*      As the project covers the whole country and each specific implementation area is not known at this
time, an Indigenous People's Policy Framework has been prepared. The framework includes a
requirement for an IPDP based on OD. 4.20 for any sub-project which may have an impact on
indigenous people.
*      CIDSS relies heavily on social preparation and community selection of sub-projects. However, a
grievance mechanism operates through the barangay level committee to deal with any disaffected
community members.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainablity:
The project will finance basic social services that are regularly funded out of the country budget
and hence the maintenance and continued operation of the assets is confirmed. The sustainability of the
sector reform program however depends to a large extent on the political will and priorities of subsequent
administrations as well as the management and leadership of the agencies. Maintaining incentives for
transparency and accountability in subsequent administrations depends on the success of civil society to
institutionalize efforts in this direction.
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Public social services are poor because of  M         Selection of a few key programs or parts of the
systemic and personnel incentive issues              system (e.g., procurement) that are amenable to
that are not being addressed by the                   a focussed reform effort The government has
project                                               recently announced its desire to proceed with an
overarching public sector reform initiative.
Government fails to maintain commitment     M         Strong buy-in of middle level management and
and ownership for the reform process                  leadership in the bureaucracy as well as in the
political leadership
Affected stakeholders such as current       S         Information sharing with those who are
government contractors/suppliers, and                 concerned and interested in improving the way
government bureaucracy at middle and                  the government does business, including budget
lower levels sabotage reforms                         monitoring by civil society and public
expenditure tracking
From Components to Outputs
Timely release of cash for project          M         Targeted cash release program agreed with
implementation                                        DBM and direct payments where possible
Political stability and/or continuation in  M         Reform agenda widely accepted and recognized
policies of departmental leadership                   as high priority in implementing agencies
Procurement procedures implemented          M         Advance preparation of bidding documents,
provision of technical support by the Bank
office in Manila
Delays in the implementation of the         S         Agree and covenant timetable for reform
agreed reforms                                        milestones
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The proposed reform programs will affect certain vested interests outside and inside the
government. As a result of improvements to procurement, suppliers who have in the past, profited from
preferential access and lack of transparency will be adversely affected. This is already apparent in the
procurement under SEMP 1 where the use of competitive procedures resulted in substantial reductions in
price and opened up competition to new or non-traditional suppliers. The FM improvement will also
increase transparency in the financial management of agencies and is likely to be resisted by any vested
interests that may be affected as a result. Improvements to teacher deployment and more efficient resource
allocation could lead to disaffection from political interests that have profited from lack of transparency
and efficiency in this regard in the past.
- 20 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A Steering Committee for the Project has been established by Joint Department Order and chaired
by the Secretary of DBM, the lead agency, and consisting of representatives from DEPED, DOH, DPWH
and DSWD, to monitor the progress of the Project and coordinate Project activities.
The Project Implementation Manual covering procurement procedures, financial management
procedures, project management procedures, performance indicators and policies complying with the
Bank's safeguards acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Management aspects of the proiect or executing agency
(a) The Steering Committee will be maintained until completion of the Project.
(b) A PMU in each of DBM, DepEd, DOH and DSWD, will be maintained until completion of the Project,
headed by a Project Coordinator reporting to the designated Undersecretary, and provided at all times with
adequate funds and staffed by personnel with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
Project Implementation
(c) The Project will be carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
containing descriptions of: (i) procurement procedures; (iii) project performance indicators; (iv)
environmental criteria applicable to sub-project design and criteria for the selection of sub-projects and; (v)
the agreed Framework for Treatment of Indigenous Peoples.
(d) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that all land required for purposes of the Project
is purchased from a willing seller following commercial practices in the areas or is donated by a willing
donor.
(e) The Borrower shall ensure that in carrying out the sub-project grants, information, aimed at disclosing
all administrative, financial, enviromental, social, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the
selection, design, preparation and implementation of the Sub-projects is available free of charge at the
offices of the Barangay Captains or School Heads.
(f) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall avoid, and if possible, minimize cultural, social and
economic adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project; and through a
process of informed consultation and participation, involve concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and
implementation of Sub-Projects so as to ensure that the benefits received by the Indigenous Peoples under
the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary
user rights.
(g) DOH, DSWD and DepEd shall, by March 31, 2003, furnish to the Bank for comments the draft
Financial Management, Procurement and Information Systems/Technology Improvement Plans and
thereafter implement such Improvement Plans in a timely manner taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon, if any.
A Political sub-division within a city or a municipality.
-21 -



(h) DBM shall by December 31, 2003, furnish to the Bank for comments the draft action plans for the
transparency and accountability initiatives for the Borrower's budgetary processes in education, health and
social welfare sectors and thereafter implement such action plans in a timely manner taking into account the
comments of the Bank, if any.
(i) DOH shall by November 30, 2002, furnish to the Bank for comments a draft time-bound action plan to
address:
(i) the streamlining of the functions of the its Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD), (ii) the
strengthening of the capacity of such Bureau to carry out its responsibilities; and (iii) the
accreditation of private laboratories; and promptly thereafter, implementating the action plan
taking into account the comments of the Bank, if any.
(j) DBM and DepEd shall by Dcember 31, 2004, institutionalize the new-teacher deployment system
agreed with the Bank.
Selection Criteria and Procurement Procedures for Sub-Projects
(k) No Sub-project shall include (a) expenditures intended for military or para-military purposes; (b) civil
works for government administrations or religious purposes; (c) fnancing of government salaries or taxes;
or relate to the following activities (d) manufacture or use of environmentally hannful products, (e)
producing, storing or transporting hazardous materials (f) logging, or (g) activities in protected areas.
(1) Grants for the repairs and maintenance of schools not exceeding PHP 100,000 per year, shall be
implemented according to terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
(m) Grants for the implementation of CIDSS not exceeding PHP300,000 per sub-project, shall be
implemented according to terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementations Manual.
Proiect Monitoring. Review. Reporting
(n) DBM and the agencies shall monitor and evaluate the project on an on-going basis against agreed
performance indicators.
(o) DBM shall furnish the Bank by January 31, 2004, a mid-term review assessing performance of the
project and measures necessary to reach project objectives; and shall review the report with the Bank by
February 29, 2004, and thereafter take any measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[] 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
- 22 -



quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
0AQ '4                                                                          I2-  a
s   e Balachander'             E      u    . Jimenez              Robert V. Pulley
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          .                          Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Comprehensive human       Elementary school completion National                No major economic, social,
development through access  rates                    Statistics Office (NSO) health political or natural crisis.
to basic social services; and                        and education surveys
good and effective govemance                        including:
Decline in prevalence of  the Annual Poverty Indicators
infectious diseases       Survey (APIS), and the
Family Income and
Expenditure Survey (FIES)
Reduction in gaps in      Filipino report card on
minimum basic needs.      pro-poor social services.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve basic social services  Textbook:pupil ratio in 4 core National Education MIS  Provision of basic social
by (i) enhancing performance subjects (math, science,  (UDGS)                  services benefits the poor.
and governance in the three  Filipino, English) from 1:2.5
social sector agencies -  to 1:1
DepEd, DOH and DSWD and
(ii) providing quality inputs to Resume polio-free   WHO Certification
such services             certification              DOTS Monitoring Reports
Reduction of measles cases by
50% (7,194 to <3,500)
Rabies-Free Visayas
certification (<I case per
million population)
Improve TB cure rate from
80% to 85%
Increased consumer/client  Report Card Survey        Government maintains
satisfaction with basic social                       commitment and ownership
services.                                            for reform process.
Percentage savings from    Financial Monitoring Reports
procurement               (FMRs)
Computerized accounting
system implemented
Reduction in # of schools with National Education MIS
student:teacher ratios (STR)  (UDGS)
of >50 from 500 to <100
Improvement in the         National Education MIS
Inter-quartile ratios (IQR) for (UDGS)
teacher deployment at
division level from 2 to I
Performance standards      BFAD Performance Review
maintained in BFAD
- 24 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
.Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                  - Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Significant improvements in  Number of classrooms    Financial Monitoring Reports The selected programs can be
the quantity, quality,    completed to specification  (FMRs).                 reformed or improved even in
timeliness and effectiveness of (1,750).                                      the face of systemic
basic inputs to education                            Project Supervision Reports  weaknesses and poor
including the provision of  Number of grants provided for (PSRs).             incentives for public servants .
textbooks, and the        the repair and maintenance of
construction and          school buildings (40,000).  Community-based
repair/maintenance of                                information monitoring
classrooms.               Number of textbooks        system (CBIMS) reports.
distributed to elementary and
secondary schools. (50
million)
Significant improvements in  Increase TB smear-positive  DOTS Monitoring Reports
quantity, quality, timeliness  notification rate
and effectiveness of inputs to
key public health programs.  Administer TB drugs to
200,000 patients
Increase coverage of fully  National Statistics Office
immunized children from   Immunization Coverage
61% to 67%.               Survey
Increase Child Protected at
Birth (CPAB) for tetanus
toxoid by 100% (0.2/1000 live
births to 0.4/1000 live births)
Number of doses of        Financial Monitoring Reports
anti-rabies vaccine       (FMRs)
administered.
Effective implementation of  Implement 2000 CIDSS    Financial Monitoring Reports
social welfare and        sub-projects              (FMRs)
development programs and
timely provision of inputs and
services.
Public Expenditure        FM-Procurement-MIS/IT      Project Supervision Reports  Key stakeholders, in
Management Improvement in improvement plans prepared                           particular, government
DepEd, DOH and DSWD.                                                           bureaucracy at middle and
Spread-sheet based                                  lower levels accept and
accounting system installed                         implement reform.
MIS flash reporting system
implemented
Streamlined budget process
implemented
Procurement units
reconstituted and procurement
- 25 -



processes streamlined
DepEd Annual Statistics
published within 6 months of
year end
Contract distribution system
adopted in DOH
IT organization formed in
DepEd
E-procurement implemented
New teacher deployment
system adopted
BFAD Improvement plan
adopted
Public Expenditure Tracking
and Budget Monitoring
systems developed and
implemented
- 26 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
A.Strengthening Key                                  Financial Monitoring Reports Timely release of cash for
Budgetary Programs                                  (FMRs)                     project implementation.
Basic Education Services  $ 75.10 million
Construction of about 1,750                         Public Expenditure Tracking  Political stability and/or
classrooms.                                          Systems                   continuation in policies and
Repair and maintenance of                                                      commitment to reform of
about 20,000 school buildings                                                  departmental leadership.
per year.
Distribution of 50 million
textbooks.
Basic Health Services     $ 26.75 million
Purchase of vaccines
Distribution of TB drugs
(200,000 patients)
Social Welfare Services   $ 11.00 million
Implementation of CIDSS sub
-projects
B. Systems Improvement    $ 1.0 million
and Reform
C. Strengthening          $ 0.5 million
Transparency and
Accountability
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
The project has three components: Component I will provide improve the implementation of key programs
in education, health and social welfare. Component 2 will support the implementation of core management
systems improvement, including financial management, procurement, management information, human
resources management (teacher deployment in particular) and drug regulatory systems. Component 3 will
develop and implement transparency and accountability mechanisms - including performance management,
public expenditure tracking surveys, and client feedback.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$111.85 million
Strengthening Key Budgetary Programs
A.] Education (US$75.10 million)
Support to be provided to DepEd for activities covering the provision of key inputs for improving the
quality of education: school building/classroom construction, repairs and maintenance, and textbooks.
School Building/Classroom Construction (US$14.72 million). There is an estimated backlog of 12,000
classrooms in elementary schools throughout the country. A total of about 1,750 classrooms will be
constructed under the project. Under Filipino law, priority for the construction of classrooms is based on
school-age population and current estimated shortages. The project will provide funding for the DepEd
executed portion of the school building program (SBP) with a view to benchmarking good practices using
competitive bidding procedures. In addition, the project will simplify and improve (i) design and standard
specifications (ii) the SBP database and program planning and implementation. The project will also
finance the SBP to be implemented by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), using
National Competitive Bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. This involves significant changes in the
current procurement practices of DPWH for school buildings, including wide advertising, no
pre-qualification of contractors and no fixed prices per classroom.
Repairs and Maintenance of School Buildings (US$16.78 million). Regular preventive maintenance and
minor repairs are important to extend the effective life of existing school buildings. In the past, funds for
repairs and maintenance have been released directly to regional offices. Funds are spent differently in
different regions, and reporting on their use has been weak. Under a pilot effort in SEMP 1, elementary
schools in one region directly received P10,000 for school repairs and maintenance. This pilot was
successful and it is proposed to extend this approach under SEMP 2. DepEd's Physical Facilities Division
has also developed a manual for use by school staff and Parent-Teacher Community Association (PTCA)
for minor repairs and maintenance. The manual will be used in training school staff and members of
PTCAs. A training on book keeping and standard reporting procedures for accounting of the funds will
also be included. Schools will receive funds in the form of grants (up to a maximum $200-$2000 per
school) mainly for materials for rehabilitation works on the basis of an approved programs of works.
PTCAs will play an important role in supplementing funds and providing labor. The program will
strengthen DepEd efforts for greater school-based management
Textbooks (US$ 43.60 million). Building on the successes with textbook procurement in SEMP 1, that
reduced prices and infused about 50 million textbooks into the system, the project will support a further
program of textbook reform with the following goals: a) provide a sustainable supply of educational
materials that are both of high pedagogical quality and affordably priced; b) ensure that the right quantities
- 28 -



of the right titles reach the right schools, through efficient, cost effective and transparent means, on time for
the beginning of each school year; c) ensure that educational materials available in schools are used both
efficiently and effectively and have a positive impact on both teacher effectiveness and student
performance; d) increase transparency and eliminate leakages and corruption in the procurement of
textbooks; and e) strengthen the regulatory and institutional framework needed for the above objectives to
be achieved. A series of reviews of various textbooks quality issues will be carried out, such as curriculum
scope and sequence and textbook availability and utilization.
A.2 Health (US$26.75 Million)
The objective of this portion of the health component of SEMP 2 is to ensure priority funding for major
public health programs of the Department of Health (DOH) -- namely EPI, rabies control, and TB control.
Project funds would be used to purchase vaccines and TB drugs.
Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) (US$9.60 million). The EPI program is a mature nationwide
program. Staff in health facilities are trained in the operational principles of EPI. A national cold chain
exists, with cold rooms in each region and in a number of provinces around the country. In 2001, the
program was badly affected due to a severe shortage of vaccines, and resulted in a resurgence of polio.
The highest priority for the program is to ensure that a multi-year plan for vaccine procurement is in place
and this will be assured with project support.
TB Control Proaram (US$16.14 million). Directly Observed Treatment Short Course (DOTS) coverage
for TB Control in the Philippines will reach 100% by August 2002. A satisfactory treatment success rate
of 80% has been maintained since the introduction of DOTS, but notification rates of all cases and new
smear-positive patients have declined since 1993, which is atypical of a well implemented DOTS program.
The most likely explanation for this is the shortage of anti-TB drugs. The project will ensure the regular
supply of high quality anti-drugs to strengthen DOTS impact.
Rabies Control Proaram (US$1.01 million). The DOH and Department of Agriculture work together to
implement the program through a Technical Working Group for Rabies Control. Prevention is the main
focus of the program and is managed through animal vaccination. The rabies control program aims to
reach universal coverage for animal anti-rabies vaccine, using human vaccines only after suspected infected
bites. The DOH has a network of animal bite centers where persons bitten by suspected rabid animals are
treated, with one center per province. The project will finance the procurement of vaccines.
A.3 Social Welfare and Development (US$ 11.0 million)
The project will fund the CIDSS program of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD)
that systematically targets poor, disadvantaged and extremely vulnerable populations.
Comprehensive and Integrated Deliverv of Social Services (CIDSS) (US$11.0 million). CIDSS is a proven
and highly successful barangay centered activity with projects currently being implemented in 5th and 6th
class municipalities. The poorest barangays are identified using a collection of 33 indicators related to
income, education, health, access to clean water, shelter, nutrition and child labour. Communities use the
same indicators to determine their most urgent needs, after which a People's Organization (PO) is
established which submits a proposal for a community-based project to the DSWD field office. DSWD
field offices release funds to POs not exceeding US$10,000 per project based on approved project
proposals. Examples of CIDSS projects as of the end of 2001 include small water supply systems, feeder
roads, foot paths, day-care centers, toilets and income generation programs. The project will finance grants
- 29 -



to POs to purchase materials for implementing these minor works. DSWD field offices and Barangay
Development Committees monitor fund utilization and outputs during project implementation.
Project Component 2 - US$1.00 million
B.] Systems Improvement and Reform
A technical assistance component will be provided under the project to support continuing core
management systems improvement efforts in the 3 social sector agencies of DepEd, DOH and DSWD.
This will include financial management, procurement, management information, human resources
management (teacher deployment in particular) and drug regulatory systems. The systems improvement
program will be carried out by the agencies using a combination of in-house staff and outside consultants
as follows:
2. A.i Financial Management: The financial management improvements under SEMP 2 would cover the
following:
(a) Roll out of regional and division automation of accounting processes to all the regions and divisions.
(b) Roll out of a flash reporting system to all regions and divisions.
(c) Development and design of a central office accounting systems and process improvements.
(d) Development and training of a financial analysis capability that could serve the central office and
sixteen regional offices.
(e) Continued training and skills upgrading of FM staff as part of govemance capacity building.
2.A. ii Procurement: The component will provide technical assistance for the following purposes:
(a) Assist the agencies with the implementation of the agency-wide annual procurement planning.
(b) Link planning, budgeting, cash allocations and payment functions.
(c) Assist agencies and train staff in the preparation of technical specifications; drafting of bid documents,
selection of best procurement method according to the type of goods, and best practices in the evaluation
and award committee.
(d) Simplify the procurement cycle.
(e) Develop a modem tracking and monitoring system to include the whole procurement cycle and in
particular execution of contract management functions
(f) Explore options for distribution services.
(g) Develop a computerized filing system to cover all stages of the bidding process incorporating systematic
codification of records.
(h) Develop a price monitoring and evaluation system.
(i) Establish staff profiles and provide training for procurement staff
(j) Develop e-procurement
2.A. iii Management Information Systems (MIS) and Information Technology (IT) Improvement: The
project will support the improvement of the management information system in DepEd which will involve
the streamlining, integration/linking and upgrading of the existing stand-alone database/information
systems - United Data Gathering System (UDGS), the school mapping database, payroll decentralization,
HR databases (TAO-PIS-Payroll-Civil Service). This will also include support for the creation of an MIS
unit and the attendant capacity building needs. The component will develop IT infrastructure, upgrade IT
knowledge and skills, strengthen the strategic plan for information technology, by developing department
wide standards and creating a governance and organizational structure in the departments.
- 30 -



B. 2 Human Resources Management Improvement (DEPED - Teacher Deployment)
Teacher Deployment. A study of teacher deployment issues, carried out between March and December
2001 in three phases, provides the basis for this component. It was found that while the national
distribution of teachers among the regions is fairly equitable, the regional distribution among the divisions
is (in some but not all regions) much less equitable, while at the final, most local level, the distribution of
teachers among the schools shows major inequalities in most divisions. The most readily-available
instrument to redress inequalities is the new-teacher deployment process, which generally takes place every
two years. Approximately 11,800 new teacher positions will be allocated during the deployment round due
to take place during 2002-03. In preparation, a format to be used by the divisions for requesting the
deployment of new teachers to specified schools was devised and field-tested. In this format, divisional
teams are required to provide teacher-availability data for all schools under their jurisdiction, so that the
degree to which requests are being targeted on the most-needy schools will be clearly apparent. New
formats for collecting school-level data through the UDGS were devised and field tested. These changes
are needed to ensure that reliable data concerning enrollments, teacher numbers, and physical facilities are
available to planners and policy-makers at all levels of the DepEd organization. Divisional teams were
trained to use the new-teacher deployment request form and the revised UDGS forms; and training was
provided in the use of the Microsoft Office package for preparing the necessary tables and
teacher-deployment maps. A needs-based list of schools to which the new positions will be allocated has
been generated by DepEd.
Teacher deployment will be regularly monitored in future, showing teacher availability at each school
before and after each new-teacher deployment exercise. If the new positions are effectively targeted, the
number of schools in the red zone (STR>50: 1) should drop substantially. Substantial progress towards
institutionalizing the new-teacher deployment system in both DepEd and DBM has already been achieved,
but further steps are required including the issuance of a joint departmental order by DBM and DepEd on
the new system. It will also be essential to conduct further training, to ensure that at all levels of DepEd,
from the Central Office to the schools, there is a critical mass of professional and administrative staff who
understand the deployment system, know how to apply it, and feel comnmitted to its maintenance.
The potential of three other instruments will also be explored, and where possible utilized, during the
Project period. (i) Identification and elimination of long-term vacancies. There is evidence that in a small
number of teacher-surplus divisions, substantial numbers of teacher positions have remained vacant for
extended periods of time. However the data needed to identify these vacancies is not at present available.
The revised UJDGS should fill this data gap, thus enabling remedial action to be taken. (ii) Transfer of
vacant teacher positions from teacher-surplus to teacher-shortage schools. There are organizational and
stakeholder barriers to such transfers. During the Project the possibility of de-linking teacher positions
from specific schools (at both the elementary and secondary levels) will be explored, and appropriate
actions proposed. (iii) Designation of teachers to non-teaching roles. In many teacher-surplus schools,
substantial numbers of teachers are locally designated to non-teaching roles, either in the school or in the
district office. It is proposed that during the Project, a study of the roles and effectiveness of these
locally-designated teachers be carried out; and based on the findings, recommendations for appropriate
changes made.
- 31 -



B. 3 Strengthening of the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD)
On the basis of a diagnostic study of the BFAD, an agreed action plan will be implemented to strengthen
BFAD's capacity to: (1) issue certificates of product registration, (2) accredit and conduct laboratory
testing and inspections, and (3) issue GMP certification in accordance with WHO guidelines according to
an agreed performance standard.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
C. Transparency and Accountability Mechanisms
The social accountability component will support ongoing initiatives of government and civil society in
analyzing and demystifying budgets; tracking expenditures, and leakages; and obtaining client feedback.
The first step will be to review and refine the methodologies for each of these activities through technical
assistance. This would involve developing analytical and methodological skills in key accountability
mechanisms for the development of sustainable and ongoing institutional capacity and rigor in civil
society.The second step would be to focus the accountability initiatives on the three sectors (Health,
Education, and Social Welfare) being supported through the SEMP, and thus link these stand-alone
initiatives with one another. These would involve integrating the civil society inputs into various aspects of
the public expenditure cycle with focus on SEMP outcomes. A number of localized applications enabling
community organizations to undertake participatory budgeting and district level community report cards
would be developed and piloted. The third step would be to test these refined, refocused and connected
social accountability initiatives through at least one round of implementation. The results of this
implementation could be fed into the deliberations of a strengthened multi-stakeholder Budget Dialogue
group, thus informing the effective and efficient allocation and use of public resources in SEMP-supported
sectors. The results will also be shared with concemed public agencies to enable them to improve their
performance and the provision of related training to Government staff. Finally, the tools that underpin
these initiatives will be popularized and made available to interested citizen groups for national and local
continuous application. Various dissemination mechanisms enabling use of public interest media and use
of intemet would be developed. Finally these initiatives will be documented in terms of their impact on
SEMP outcomes. Case studies on each of these initiatives would be prepared to enable assessment of
impact and draw lessons for future initiatives.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Local       Foreign        Total.
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
A. Strengthening Key Budgetary Programs                   0.00         0.00         0.00
A. I. Basic Education                                    54.67        20.43        75.10
A.2. Public Health Services                               0.00        26.75        26.75
A.3. Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services  11.00   0.00         11.00
B. Systems Improvement and Reform                         1.00         0.00          1.00
C. Strengthening Transparency and Accountability          0.50         0.00          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      67.17        47.18        114.35
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs1             67.17        47.18       114.35
Front-end fee                    1.00         1.00
Total Financing Required              67.17        48.18       115.35
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                      23.17         47.18        70.35
Works                                                      13.72          0.00        13.72
Project Grants                                             26.78          0.00        26.78
Technical Assistance                                        1.50          0.00         1.50
Incremental Operating Costs                                 2.00          0.00         2.00
Total Project Costs'    67.17         47.18        114.35
Front-end fee              ^     1.00         1.00
Total Financing Required     67.17         48.18        115.35
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project eost, net of taxes, is 115.35 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 86.69% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Background
The Government of the Philippines spends about 5% of GDP on the social sectors, three quarters of which
is devoted to education. Excluding the Internal Revenue Allocation (IRA) to local governments, and debt
service, social services account for the highest percentage share of national government expenditures at
37%, of which education accounts for 28% (2000). Education is mandated to be accorded the highest
priority in the national budget under the Constitution of 1987, which also mandates the establishment and
maintenance of a system of free public education at the elementary and secondary levels. More than 90%
of elementary school students, and 70% at the secondary level, are enrolled in public schools. The public
sector has been a relatively small player in tertiary education with more than 75% of students at that level
enrolled in private institutions. However the number of State Universities and Colleges and the resultant
share of higher education in total public education expenditures increased rapidly between 1990-1995, from
about 14% to 20%. Since 1996, as a result of realigned spending priorities, the share of higher education
has fallen back to about 15%.
The most significant features of the health system in the Philippines are the devolution of government
health services to local governments under the Local Government Code of 1991; the domination of the
private funds in total health expenditures (54% against 38% for public in 1997); and the high share of
personal health care spending (estimated at 64% of the total in 1997) as opposed to public health care
(24%). The public sector plays a dominant role in the provision of primary health care and community
health services such as maternal and child care, family planning, control of communicable diseases,
implemented by local governments with some technical support and provision of drugs and medicines from
the national government.
Welfare services for extremely poor and vulnerable groups are provided by the Department of Social
Welfare and Development. However there is no publicly funded social safety net such as unemployment
compensation or pension programs. Indeed such programs could not rely on government financing if they
are to be sustainable and accessible to all those who needed them.
The Bank's review of social sector expenditures in the aftermath of the East Asian financial crisis revealed
that although the social sectors were relatively protected, cash rationing, and weak budget execution
resulted in severe shortages in critical inputs in education and health such as textbooks and TB drugs,
signifying an urgent need to improve social expenditure management. DBM meanwhile had intensified its
own Public Expenditure Management Reforms initiative. Various efforts were afoot to improve financial
management and procurement. The government was also trying to move towards a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework, Sectoral Efficiency and Effectiveness Reviews (SEER), performance
management - at the agency level (under the Organizational Performance Indicator Framework), and at the
project level (under Results Monitoring and Evaluation). Efforts are also under way to involve civil society
in the budget process and to obtain feedback from clients about public services.
Linkage to Overall CAS and Sector Strategy
Social sector policies to empower and protect the poor, and improved governance have been identified as
key objectives of Bank assistance to the Philippines. In education, the Philippines Education Sector Study
noted deficiencies in the areas of the deployment of teachers, their poor training and preparation;
overcrowded primary curriculum and poorly sequenced, rote learning approach to math and science in
- 34 -



secondary school; textbook provision well below adequate standards; non-use of the vernacular as medium
of instruction in the first three grades of elementary school; poor resource allocation, especially as a result
of the proliferation of SUCs, and inefficient use of resources. The current project will focus on improving
overall resource use, particularly with reference to teacher deployment, and by improving procurement and
financial management, while ensuring that key educational inputs, such as textbooks, are protected and
their quality improved. The Bank's Third Elementary Education Project and a proposed ADB (Higher)
Education Sector Reform Project address other areas. The Department of Health has embarked on a major
Health Sector Reform effort, including a re-engineering of the department, that includes the following
strategies: 1) reduce fiscal dependence of hospitals; 2) secure funding for public health programs; 3)
support local health systems; 4) improve regulation and 5) expand National Health Insurance, especially
for the poor. The current project will, besides improving expenditure management, support public health
programs. A Health Sector Reform Project is currently under development to pilot the whole reform
package in selected areas.
Rationale for Government Intervention
The rationale for public financing of basic education, besides the constitutional guarantee, includes the
following: positive externalities (increases productivity, reduces child mortality, affects fertility, health and
nutrition, and schooling of the next generation); market failure (systematic under valuation and investment
of education by the poor, and failure in related markets such as credit) and equity (large body of literature
showing that basic education mainly benefits the poor who face high relative costs as well as opportunity
costs, all subject to income constraints). Similarly for public health programs, there are externalities
(reducing transmission of infectious diseases benefits others besides those affected by the disease), public
goods (vector control is not excludable) and equity (infectious diseases disproportionately affect the poor)
arguments.
Benefit/Impact Analysis
The benefits of basic social services financed under the project are well established and in lieu of a full
cost-benefit analysis, a likely impact or benefits statement is presented. Moreover, based on experience in
the first Social Expenditure Management Project, evidence is presented that direct "savings" or cash
benefits accruing to the government from lower costs due to improved procurement alone would result in a
high rate of return on investment. The project has a satisfactory internal rate of return even without
attributing any economic value to deaths averted or disability-adjusted-life-years saved from health
services, or economic retums and social benefits from education.
Basic Education Services. The efficiency gains that will result from the implementation of the Education
component include: (i) a reduction in the fiscal cost of delivering public education resulting from increased
efficiency in the provision of inputs; (ii) increase in the future earning power of students who received a
basic education of higher quality; (b) a reduction in the fiscal cost of delivering public education as the rate
of repetition and dropout are reduced. The needs-based deployment of about 25,000 new teacher positions,
eliminating vacant positions and/or transferring them from teacher-surplus to teacher shortage schools and
re-designation of teachers from non-teaching to teaching roles will significantly improve efficiency and
effectiveness of the $1.8 billion anual DepEd investment in teacher's salaries. The estimated private rates
of return to education in the Philippines show that education has a large, significant effect on wages. On
average, an additional year of education increases hourly wage earnings by 12 to 14%. (World Bank,
Philippines Poverty Assessment, 2001). There are few estimates of extemality, but strong effects have
been shown for exarnple, of the impact of education on the production of farmers. Interventions have been
selected keeping in view work previously done in the Philippines to estimate the relative cost-effectiveness
- 35 -



of various inputs. In a 1996 study by Tan, three school inputs were identified with unambiguously positive
effects on learning: books, classroom furniture and pre-school programs. Relating the effect of the inputs
to their costs suggest that the first two are the most cost-effective options. For each item funded, there will
be significant improvements in quality, timeliness, efficiency and effectiveness. Textbook purchases for
instance, are linked to policies reducing the number of titles procured at the elementary level, adoption of
short term curriculum changes and a long term plan for curriculum overhaul, coordination of title selection
among various funders; teacher training in effective use of new materials; reliable information on quantities
delivered, book attrition rates and handling, storage and condemnation practices. Funds for repairs and
maintenance, now handled by the regional offices and poorly accounted for, will be released directly to
schools.
Public Health Services. (i) Immunization is established and one of the most cost-effective and successful
interventions to reduce child mortality and morbidity. The costs of the EPI Plus cluster of services in
middle income countries was estimated to be about $25 per fully immunized child, and benefits, a reduction
of about 10% of the disease burden among children under age 5. (World Development Report, 1993).
About 2.5 million infants are targeted for full immunization coverage under the project at a total cost of
about $ 9.6 million (cost of vaccines only, other inputs being provided by the government). As a result of
the project an additional 125,000 children are expected to be fully immunized. The incidence of measles is
expected to decrease by 50% (from over 7000 to less than 3500 cases). The country is expected to return to
"polio-free" certification after the 2001 resurgence of polio cases.
(ii) Tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health problem in the Philippines, ranked 7 among 22 nations
identified by WHO as countries with a high burden of TB. A DOH TB prevalence survey (1997) also
showed significantly higher prevalence amongst the poor. The notification rate is 164 per 100,000
population for all cases, and 85.6 for new smear-positive cases. In 2000, a total of 128,495 patients were
diagnosed as infected, and received treatment. The disease is estimated to cause at least 25,000 deaths per
annum. The introduction of DOTS has significantly improved the quality of the program and in particular,
the cure rate. Serious shortages of drugs have however, left the program less efficacious than it could be.
The project will ensure a steady supply of quality drugs for short course chemotherapy. This is likely to
lead to an increase, initially, in the number of notified cases, as the numbers of those seeking treatment
increase, before a long term decline in prevalence is established.
Expenditure Management Improvement. Direct (cash) benefits will accrue from lower procurement costs of
all items procured under the project using competitive bidding procedures, which resulted, in SEMP 1, in
reductions of 25 to 60% in prices, compared with those paid under past procurement by the Government.
The range of textbooks prices fell from P60-80 to P25-36, while the price of desks fell from P750 to P485
and that of chairs from P600 to P 240. Using an average savings rate of 40%, the quantity of real resources
purchasable increases by 67% (1/1-0.4) = 1.67). This two thirds increase in supply amounts to $ 46 million
(of an estimated $70 million outlay for textbooks, and drugs), yielding a 46% return on the US$ 100
million investment. This is in an underestimate of the total rate of return as it does not include the savings
from the systems-wide improvement to procurement processes, nor the returns from investments in basic
education, public health and social services. Indeed if the prices of all publicly purchased inputs were
similarly reduced as a result of systemic procurement reform, the return would be enormous.
- 36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         11.8      23.4      29.4      30.9       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           4.8       5.2       5.2       4.6       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        16.6      28.6      34.6      35.5       0.0      0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
,Total Financing           17.6      28.6      34.6      35.5       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                12.0       24.0      30.0      34.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               4.6        4.6       4.6       1.5      0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   16.6      28.6      34.6      35.5       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Procurement
Summary of the Assessment of the Aeencies Procurement Capacity. Overall responsibility for the
project will be vested in the Department of Budget and Management (DBM). Project Implementation Units
(PMUs) in the DBM and in each of the line agencies will support and facilitate the procurement
implementation of each component within their departments. The Department of Education (DepEd) will
be responsible for the procurement of textbooks and the discretionary allotment under the school building
program (SBP), while the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) will be responsible for the
procurement of school building under the normal SBP. The Department of Health (DoH) will procure
pharmaceuticals and vaccines and supplies, and the Department of Social Welfare and Development
(DSWD) will supervise procurement implementation under the Comprehensive Integrated Delivery of
Social Services (CIDSS).
Assessment of the procurement capacity of the three Social Sector Departments (SSDs), the Department of
Education, the Department of Social Welfare and Development, and Department of Health as well as the
Department of Public Works and Highways, which are responsible for the procurement under the project,
was carried out in accordance with the Office Memorandum from the Manager of OCSPR, dated August
11, 1998. The assessment involved review of the procurement policies and procedures adopted and
implemented in the 3 SSDs, and how they actually implemented procurement for SEMP I and other Bank,
and locally funded projects. The Bank's last Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for the
Philippines was completed in March 1997, and another CPAR is currently being fmalized. The general
findings of the assessment of DepEd, DSWD, DoH and DPWH conform largely to those of the CPARs.
In general, the laws, rules and regulations relating to procurement being implemented by the three SSDs
and DPWH adhere to principle of competition and are intended to promote economy, efficiency and
transparency. However, certain laws, procedures and regulations may not fully support economy, efficiency
and transparency in procurement. Some of them are within the authority of the four departments to amend,
and these have been identified with the technical assistance provided for DepEd and DSWD under SEMP
1, and will be implemented under SEMP 2. Technical assistance for DoH has also been provided, under a
project preparation grant, to prepare a plan for procurement reform to be implemented under the project.
Other legislative and central government interventions are needed to be included as part of long-term
procurement refonns. These are being identified under the CPAR and are likely to be the subject of an
upcoming adjustmnent operation. However, procurement under Bank-financed projects is not affected
because of waivers of laws, rules and regulations on procurement that form part of the Loan Agreement.
The management of the SSDs are addressing the issues of efficiency, economy and transparency in
procurement, as experienced in recent procurement of textbooks and drugs under on-going Bank-financed
projects. However, the agencies need further technical assistance to sustain department-wide procurement
reform implementation.
Overall, the capacities of DepEd, and DSWD, mainly as a result of recent reforms instituted, were assessed
to be fair for DepEd and good in the case of DSWD. DoH has been assessed to be lacking adequate
capacity to carry out procurement and administer the logistics of drug distribution, in particular, with
regard to the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD). DPWH, and in particular the district offices which will
implement the school building program, were rated to be high risk. The main overall risks concern: the
quality assurance and regulatory aspect related to product registration and acceptance of drugs (DoH);
- 38 -



failure to observe changes required to meet NCB procedures in the school building program; tedious
acceptance process of textbooks resulting in more than 6 months's delay in the final payment to suppliers
(DepEd); high level of political interference in the procurement process (DPWH) and inadequate planning
capacity and staffing (both DoH and DepEd) to ensure efficient and economic procurement and contract
administration.
To mitigate the risks, a series of actions will be undertaken under the project, including the following:
institutional capability will be strengthened within the SSDs with technical assistance covering
procurement, financial management and infornation systems to be on board by January 2003; DoH will
implement procurement of drugs through UN agencies to ensure timely and quality procurement; DepEd
with appropriate technical assistance will complete a study on streamlining and simplifying inspection,
acceptance and payment processing of textbooks by March 2003; and DoH and DepEd staff will attend
specialized HD procurement training at AIM by November 2002. Also, DoH will revamp by March 2003
the Procurement and Logistics Services (PLS), and DepEd will organize a single procurement unit, to
streamline and improve the procurement functions of the two departments. The DPWH has issued a
Departmental Order (DO) prescribing the procurement procedures to be followed for the SBP, including
appropriately packaging SBP contracts under NCB with national advertising.
Use of Guidelines. Procurement of goods and works, and consultant services funded wholly or partly by
the Bank Loan will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999, and the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997 revised September 1997 and January 1999).
There are several conflicts between the procurement procedures of the Republic of the Philippines and
those which are acceptable to the Bank. A procurement supplemental letter will be issued by the Borrower,
on the same date as the signing of the Loan Agreement, detailing procedures under existing national laws
that are not acceptable to the Bank. The supplemental letter will have among others, the following
provisions:
NCB opportunities, including those which are invited by local government units, shall be advertised in
national newspapers of general circulation, with sufficient time for bidders to prepare offers, which shall
not be less than 30 days;
Price negotiation shall not be allowed. However, in case of budget limitation, adjustment in quantities of
goods or scope of works may be agreed upon, subject to the concurrence of the Bank;
Bid and performance securities shall be specified in the bidding documents which at the bidder's option,
may be in the form of a certified check, a letter of credit, or a bank guarantee from a reputable bank, but
excluding any for of surety bonds; and
Eligibility screening of contractors shall only be undertaken prior to contract award, but not for purposes of
participating in the bidding.
Standard Bid Documents. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) of Health Sector Goods
(dated May 2000) will be used for the Procurement of Goods (January 1995, revised March 2000, January
2001 and March 2002) and the SBD for the Procurement of Works Smaller Contracts (January 1995) for
civil works.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 39 -



Procurement under the sub-components of the project will be carried out by the specific SSD-IA following
agreed procedures and using the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) of the Bank.
Procurement under the project will comprise: (i) textbooks; construction, and repairs and maintenance of
school buildings for DepEd, (ii) community sub-projects for DSWD, and (iii) drugs, vaccines and supplies
for DoH.
A. Goods: (US$ 70.35 million). Goods envisioned under this component, include (i) printing and delivery of
textbooks and teacher's manuals, estimated at US$ 43.60 million; and (ii) supply and delivery of
pharmaceuticals and vaccines, and supplies, estimated at US$ 26.75 million.
a) All the goods packages are expected to be large with estimated costs in excess of US$ 200,000. These
will be procured following Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the appropriate Bank's SBDs.
Procurement of textbooks using SBD for textbooks estimated at US$ 40.85 million will be implemented by
DepEd. Procurement of pharmaceuticals and vaccines using SBD for health sector goods estimated at US$
16.14 million will be implemented by DoH. Doll has already procured the first batch requirements of
pharmaceuticals and vaccines estimated at US$ 8.92 million, the Government will advance payments of the
pharmaceuticals and vaccines contracts which will be reimbursed under retroactive financing.
b) Subsequent vaccine requirements will be procured through UN Agencies in view of the crucial aspect of
timeliness in the supply of vaccines for a successful immunization program and the unpredictable and long
delays in the procurement process in DOH at this time. Moreover, the lack of timely vaccine procurement
in the last two years has created an emergency situation with a resurgence of polio. Expanded
immunization program (EPI) vaccines estimated at US$ 9.60 million will be procured through the UNICEF
while anti-rabies vaccines estimated at US$ 1.01 million will be procured through the WHO. These two
agencies have proven to be reliable sources of vaccines in the past.
c) New mathematics textbooks supporting a recently revised curriculum are needed at the beginning of the
school year in June 2002. Procurement of math textbooks for 1st to 3rd year high school estimated at US$
2.75 million will be done through direct contracting due to urgency. The appraisal mission reviewed the
textbook manuscript for content and was satisfied that the price was comparable with the cost of textbooks
recently procured under ICB, even slightly cheaper, and of similar quality. The Government will advance
payments of the textbooks which will be reimbursed under retroactive financing.
B. Works: (US$ 13.72 million). Works will consists of construction and rehabilitation of school buildings.
DPWH will implement the regular school building fund allocated per legislative district while DepEd will
implement the remaining portion of the school building fund allocated at the discretion of the department.
No international competitive bidding (ICB) is expected due to the small size and dispersed nature of school
building contracts. Selection of contractors will be carried out following post qualification procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The following thresholds will apply:
a) Civil works contracts estimated at US$ 50,000 or more equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$ 7.84 million will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of school building construction and rehabilitation estimated between
US$100,000 and US$ 400,000 per legislative district will be clustered into one contract, and implemented
by DPWH district offices. The NCB bidding documents will be in line with the DPWH Department Order
prescribing the procurement procedures for the SBP and will be reviewed by the procurement specialist.
- 40 -



b) Individual civil works contract estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$ 5.89 million will be procured through simplified procurement procedures for
small works. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified contractors.
Procurement documents earlier agreed under SEMP I will be adapted and used. Participation of
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would be acceptable, if they are qualified and have a good track
record. The individual school buildings allocated under the discretionary power of DepEd will be difficult
to cluster since these will be geographically dispersed.
c) Contracts for different pre-fabricated school building types which are proprietary and obtainable only
from specific sources, and costing less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$ 0.20 million will be procured through direct contracting. DepEd is piloting the
implementation of different types of pre-fabricated school buildings appropriate for different ecological
zones to explore the feasibility for larger scale implementation at a later date.
C. Project Grants. (US$ 26.78 million). The Project will provide funds to carry out: the repair and
maintenance of school buildings estimated at US$16.78 million under DepEd; and small scale community
projects of the Comprehensive Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS) estimated at US$10 million
under DSWD.
a) Schools will receive funds in the aggregate amount of US$16.78 million, in the form of grants ranging
from US$200 to a maximum of US$2,000 for repair and maintenance works needed on the basis of an
approved program of works. PTCAs will play a large role in supplementing the meager funds through
provision of free labor, transport and hauling, tools and equipment, among others. Procurement by the
schools involves community participation from the identification of program of works, to implementation of
repair and maintenance, and acceptance of works. The school will procure local construction materials
needed for the repair and maintenance. The procurement by the school involves: (i) local shopping for
goods and materials; (ii) direct purchase for goods that are obtainable only from specific sources in the
community; and (iii) direct labor hiring from beneficiary communities. Where fornal receipts are not
comnmon, especially in the rural communities, signed proof of purchases and payments between the seller
and buyer, witnessed or ascertained by the school head and PTCA president, may substitute the formal
documents. The schools will have regular accounting of grant utilization prominently displayed in the
schools' bulletin boards, and easily accessible to the community.
b) The CIDSS program of DSWD in the aggregate amount of US$10.04 million provides small grants to
communities for projects to meet the minimum basic needs. The individual grants to communities will not
exceed US$10,000, and will finance projects identified by organized communities and approved by DSWD.
Communities provide labor and DSWD provides materials and simple equipment to carry out the project.
Examples of projects include small water supply systems, feeder roads, footpaths, day care centers,
communal toilets, and income generation programs. The Peoples Organization (POs) will procure items
such as local construction materials, handicraft raw materials, livestocks, seedlings, and other livelihood
items under approved proposals. The procurement by the PO involves: (i) local shopping for goods and
materials; (ii) direct purchase for goods that are obtainable from only from specific sources in the
community; and (iii) direct labor hiring from beneficiary communities. Where formal receipts are not
common, especially in the rural communities, signed proof of purchases and payments between the seller
and buyer, witnessed or ascertain by the PO president or auditor, may substitute the formal documents. The
POs will have permanent bulletin boards displayed to the communities showing grant utilization, updated
regularly.
-41 -



D. Incremental Operating Cost (US$ 2.00 million). Support for project management, operations,
monitoring and supervision activities for DepEd, DOH, DSWD, and DBM (including travel, subsistence
allowances, provisions of consumable supplies and materials, but excluding staff salaries) transportation,
training, repairs and maintenance will be provided in accordance with existing Govenmment prescribed
limits and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           7.84          5.88         0.00       13.72
(0.00)         (5.88)        (4.41)      (0.00)      (10.29)
2. Goods                           56.99                        13.36        0.00       70.35
(53.48)           0          (12.81)      (0.00)     (66.29)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00        26.78         0.00       26.78
Project Grants                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (21.42)       (0.00)     (21.42)
4.                                 0.00            0.00         2.00         0.00       2.00
Incremental Operating Cost        (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)       (0.00)      (1.00)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Technical Assistance            0.00                                      1.50        1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)          0          (0.00)     (0.00)
Total                           56.99           7.84         48.02        1.50       114.35
(53.48)         (5.88)       (39.64)      (0.00)     (99.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through small works, community participation, direct
contracting, UN agency procurement, and incremental operating costs.
-42 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB     LCS     CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50     1.50
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50     1.50
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-43-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
4. Prior review. The procedures set forth in Paragraph 2 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply to:
a) For DPWH, the first three civil works contract procured through NCB procedures, and all those
contracts equal to or greater than US$300,000, and for DepEd, the first three contracts equal to or greater
than $20,000 in each year to be procured according to "small works" procedures, and all contracts
procured through direct contracting; b) All goods contracts awarded through ICB, all goods contracts
procured through UN agencies, and are goods contract procured through direct contracting.
5. Post review. With respect to each contract not govemed by paragraph 4 above, the procedures set forth
in Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Ratio shall be between 1:4 to 1:1 0 contracts
(for works) and 1:20 (for project grants).
6. Domestic Preference. For ICB procurement, goods or textbooks or drugs/vaccines manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of Paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Annex 2 thereto.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value.                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
ExpQnditure Categoiy      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                 US$50,000 and above            NCB             First three contracts, and
all those equal to or greater
than US$300,000
(US$2.6 million)
Less than US$50,000         Small works        First three contracts each
(US$0.36 million)
year estimated to cost
US$20,000 or more
Less than US$20,000      Direct Contracting      All (US$0.2 million)
2. Goods                 US$200,000 and above           ICB                 All (US$ 56.99)
Procurement through UN
Agencies             All (US$10.61)
Direct Contracting        All (US$ 2.75)
3. Services
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$73.31 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
- 44 -



procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
which will be carried out by procurement proficient staff from the Bank's office in the Philippines, an
independent consultant.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-45 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan will be made against the expenditure categories shown in Table
C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount .n USSmillion         Financing Percentage
Works                                       9.70                         75%
Goods                                       63.00          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
School Repairs and Maintenance Grants       12.30             80% of Grant amount disbursed
CIDSS Grants                                8.00              80% of Grant amount disbursed
Incremental Operating Costs                 1.00                         50%
Unallocated                                 5.00
Total Project Costs                         99.00
Front-end fee          1.00
Total                                      100.00
A financial management assessment of the three participating agencies; Education (DEPED), Social
Welfare (DSWD) and Health (DOH) was caried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
"Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank Financed Projects" dated June 30,
2001. A summary of the findings and recommendations of the assessment is given below. A separate
report of the assessment is available in project files.
Country Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed recently and was discussed with
the Government. The main issues identified were the change over to a new government accounting system
(NGAS) (implemented on January 1, 2002) and the risks involved in implementing the new system in about
2000 accounting units, the computerization of the new accounting system, development of accounting
policy and procedures manuals and training of staff. These issues are being addressed as part of
implementation of the CFAA recommendations.
The Bank has also proposed changes to current fund flow procedures of Bank funds. The recommendation
now pending with the DOF is the remittance of Bank funds directly to the Special Account of projects. The
BSP and the BTR through which funds are currently being coursed now, and DBM where the Notice of
Cash Allocation (NCA) is issued before funds are released to projects, will just receive payment advice and
report on disbursements to satisfy their requirements for monitoring and documentation. This procedure is
expected to speed up disbursement of Bank funds.
- 46 -



Risk Analysis
The risk that the funds will not be efficiently and effectively used for the attainment of project objectives is
moderate. The inherent risks of the project consist of the slow release of funds to implementing agencies
under the present budgetary funds flow system, risk of delay in reporting of financials due to the transition
to the new government accounting system (NGAS), and the use of the old chart of accounts in the 2003
budget preparation. The control risks on the project FM are the non-computerized accounting systems of
the three implementing agencies which regularly process voluminous transactions, the weak internal control
on the disbursements of DOH covering expenditures amounting to P300, 000 and below and the absence of
a tight linkage in the physical progress and financial status of project components and their quarterly
variance analysis. Measures are currently being put in place to mitigate these risks under the financial
improvement program of the agencies under SEMP 1.
Fund Flow
The loan funds for the project will flow via a combination of direct payments to suppliers and contractors,
Letters of Credit to be covered by Special Commitment or reimbursement of expenditures pre-financed by
the Government. As the appropriations are approved as nationally funded programs, DBM will provide
budget authorizations (allotment) and notice of cash allocation (NCA) to the agencies through the GOP
budget process. Funds advanced through NCAs will flow through Bureau of Treasury to the three agencies
and DBM will claim reimbursement of these pre-financed expenditures from the loan account by
submitting Statement of Expenditures. In case of large contractual payments, for example for procurement
of text books, drugs or civil work contracts, DBM may request the Bank for direct payments by submission
of Withdrawal Applications with full documentation. A Special Account shall be maintained for financing
small central level expenditures.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The Government has introduced a new accounting system (NGAS) starting January 2002. The new system
is installed in all three agencies. The NGAS system was reviewed during the recently completed CFAA
which concluded that it conforms with generally accepted accounting principles. The project financed
expenditures will be recorded in the general ledger of each agency following accounting policies and
procedures of NGAS. As Bank financed programs are pre-identified, the account coding system will allow
each agency to identify separately the expenditures eligible for Bank financing. Each agency will prepare
financial statements for reporting purposes. The financial statements will be based on information
extracted from its general ledgers. A consolidated project financial statement will be prepared by DBM for
reporting to the Bank.
The accounting systerm is manual as computerized systems are still under development. The project
agencies will install interim arrangements to computerize transaction processing using a spread sheet
package developed under SEMP I technical assistance. Training of agency central and regional staff on
computerized accounting will also continue under SEMP 2. These actions and other financial management
training provided under SEMP I are expected to facilitate improved financial management of SEMP 2
project.
Accounting and Reporting of small grants financed under the Project
The Project will finance small grants for the schools repair and maintenance program and grants to
communities under the CIDSS program. The mission has reviewed the operational and financial manual
for the CIDSS program and found it acceptable. DepEd has also prepared an operational manual for the
school repairs and maintenance program. Grants for both programs will be approved by the authorizing
bodies in accordance with the agreed operations manuals. The disbursement will be made directly to the
beneficiaries of the grants in accordance with the disbursement procedures in the operations manuals. The
-47 -



Barik will reimburse grants on submission of statement of expenditures.
Organization and Staffing
The financial management organization is generally standard in all three agencies with separate divisions
responsible for budget, accounting, payroll, systems and cash disbursement. An Assistant Secretary for
Financial Services heads the financial management function of each agency. The regional offices of the
agencies are also organized similar to central offices with separation of budget, accounting and cashier
functions. All agencies have an adequate number of financial staff. A number one priority in each agency
is training of staff in modem financial management techniques which is being addressed under project TA.
Audit
Internal audit is not a well established function in GOP although they are authorized under the Internal
Audit Code. However, COA resident auditors carry out a continuous audit in most agencies. The CFAA
has recommended that a review of COA audit and the need of Departmental management of internal audit
function be carried out as rationalization of auditing.
The Commission on Audit is audit institution mandated by the Philippines constitution to audit the books of
accounts of Government departments. For this project, COA shall audit each agency and the consolidated
project financial statements in accordance with international auditing standards. The audit report shall
provide separate opinions on the consolidated project financial statements, the operation of the special
account and the withdrawals from the loan account based on statement of expenditures.
Reporting and Monitoring
Implementing Agencies whose disbursements are made in the regions or in smaller subdivisions thereof
prepare their SOEs at the office where the expenditure originated. These are consolidated in the regions
and at the central office of each agency together with the other centrally disbursed expenditures. The
Implementing Agencies subsequently submit these to DBM for consolidation and preparation of statement
of expenditures.
Each agency shall be required to prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) which will allow
monitoring of the Bank-financed programs. The Financial Monitoring Reports shall include (a) Statement
of Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) Statement of Uses of Funds by Project Activity; (c) Physical Progress
Report; and (d) Procurement Report. The formats of the Reports were discussed and agreed with the
respective agencies. The reports (a to c) will be produced quarterly and submitted to DBM within 30 days
after the end of the quarter. The Procurement Report will be submitted semi-annually. DBM shall be
responsible for consolidating the reports and submitting the Consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports
within 45 days after the end of the quarter.
Conclusion
The financial management arrangements for the SEMP 2 project meet the Bank's minimum requirements.
The on-going SEMP I TA for financial management improvement and the installation of NGAS under
SEMP 2 will help improve and strengthen the system further.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for (i) civil works under contracts costing less than
$300,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 each, excluding vaccines
and pharmaceuticals; (iii) grants; (iv) incremental operating costs. All other withdrawal applications will
be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
-48 -



Special account:
A Special Account (SA) shall be maintained by the DBM PMO. The authorized allocation shall be
US$2,000,000. Disbursement for the Project shall be under the Traditional SOE based method with option
to convert to a periodic disbursement method using FMRs. In any case, FMRs shall be required to be
submitted by the Project according to a format agreed with the Bank for monitoring purposes.
The following FMRs shall be submitted:
1.     Financial Report: Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds - Using the SEMP I format of the
Physical and Financial Status Report but should include Current and Cumulative column. In additions,
Receipts should be added before the use of funds and Fund balance should be added at the end. A
summary sheet should be included showing accomplishment by component. This will be submitted on a
quarterly basis.
2.     Physical Progress Report: Use the SEMP I Physical and Financial Status Report which has
breakdown by component and sub-component The financial column must be linked to the Financial
Reports in term of the figures reflected. This will be submitted on a quarterly basis.
3.     Procurement Report - SEMP I Annual Procurement Plan with addition of forecast and status in
terms of stage and amount. This will be submitted on a semi-annual basis.
The agreed FMR report formats are included in the Project Implementation Manual. No special system is
needed to produce the above reports.
Supervision Plan
Objective and Nature: The FM supervision of the project shall be periodically done to ensure that loan
proceeds are used only for the purposes for which it was granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency,
and the achievement of the project's objectives. This normally addresses the following: (a) the mitigation
or compensating procedures that have been undertaken by the project on the risks and weaknesses identified
during the assessment or in the previous supervision; (b) ensuring that the FM system agreed is being
maintained or further strengthened; (c) that the FMRs are being submitted on a timely basis and that
disbursements are on track; and (d) that there is adequate and timely budget appropriation & releases.
Coverage: The supervision should address the total project financial management and may include the
following: (a) Maintenance of an adequate FM system including implementation of the NGAS; (b) Funds
Flow/cash planning; (c) test review of SOEs; (d) timely reporting; (e) discussions with auditor on progress
of audit, findings or on familiarity with the requirements of the Bank.
Frequency and Duration: The project will be supervised periodically, at least every 6 months. By the
nature of the work required under Bank's policy and depending on the state of the project's financial
management and the status of the FM action plans, supervision may be from a minimum of I week to a
maximum of 2 weeks. However, 2 to 3 days visit could be done on a more frequent basis addressing
limited FM concerns.
Staffing: The supervision will be done by a FMS, FMO or an FM Consultant with supervision of an FMS.
-49 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     12
First Bank mission (identification)              06/15/2000                    03/05/2001
Appraisal mission departure                       03/08/2002                   03/08/2002
Negotiations                                     04/09/2002                    04/24/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     09/01/2002
Prepared by:
Department of Budget and Management, with Departments of Education; Health; Social Welfare and
Development; and Public Works and Highways
Preparation assistance:
Hugh C.A. Somerset - Teacher Deployment
Nigel Wakeham - School Building Component
Kurt Moses - MIS
Diana Newton - Textbooks
Dr. Dongil Ahn (TB Specialist, WHO, Manila)
Dr. Pieter Van Maaren (TB Specialist, WHO, Manila)
Dr. Marajke Becx-Bleumink (TB Specialist)
Ian Walker - Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
Paul Clark -Financial Management
Rosario Manasan - Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Jayshree Balachander               Task Team Leader
Dominic Reyes Aumentado            Procurement/Civil Works
May Olalia                         Operations
Karin Nordlander                   Legal
Wijaya Wikrema                     Finanacial Management
Yolanda Taylor                     Procurement
Sabrina Terry                      Team Assistant
Christian A. Rey                   ProcurementlOperations
Bhuvan Bhatnagar                    Social Development
Alfonso de Guzman                  Textbooks
Lisa Bhansali                      Legal
Teresa Ho                          Health
Hung Kim Phung                     Disbursement
Cynthia Manalastas                 Team Assistant
Parmesh Shah                       Social Development
Lingzhi Xu                         Procurement
- 50 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
DBM: SEMP 2 Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aumentado, Dominic- DepEd Procurement Capacity Assessment, March 2002
Rey, Christian - Country Procurement Assessment Report (Draft, March 2002)
Taylor, Yolanda - DOH Procurement Capacity Assessment, March 2002
Wickrema, Wijaya - Financial Capacity Assessment, March 2002
Wickrema, Wijaya - Country Financial Assessment (Draft, March 2002)
C. Other
Cabangal, Norman. Procurement Assessment Report on the Philippine Education Department. (Prepared
for CPAR). Jan 2002
Capuno, Joseph. An Analysis of Health Care Financing and Service Delivery in the Philippines under
Decentralization (prepared for PER), Dec 2001
Government of the Philippines, DepEd. Evaluation of the School-Based Repair and Maintenance Scheme.
July 2001
Manasan, Rosario. Education Financing and Service Delivery. (Prepared for PER).Dec. 2001.
Moses, Kurt. A Strategy for Education Management Information Systems. April 2002
Newton, Diana. Strategic Planning for Educational Materials in the Philippines, May 2001
Reinikka, Ritva and Svensson, Jakob. Assessing Frontline Service Delivery
Somerset, Antony. Teacher Deployment in the Philippines, Jan 2002
Wakeham, Nigel. SEMP 2 Civil Works - Implementation Specialist's Report, October 2001
WHO Review of the Drug Regulatory System: Philippines, August 2001
*Including electronic files
- 51 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P069491       2002 PH-LGU URBAN WATER & SAN APL2                    30.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     27.88      0.00      0.00
P057731        2001 Metro Manila Urban Transport                    60.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     57.60      -1.27      0.00
P066069       2001 LAND ADMIN & MANAGEMENT                           4.79      0.00                 0.00       0.00      4.08      0.79       0.00
P066509       2001 MMURTRIP-Bicycde Nwk                              0.00      0.00                 1.30       0.00      1.25      0.06       0.00
P058842       2000 MINDANAO RURAL DEV                               27.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     23.72      10.22      000
P059933       2000 COASTAL MARINE                                    0.00      0.00                 1.25       0.00      1.12       1.35      0.00
P065113       2000 PH-SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MGMT                      100.00       0.00                000        0.00     58.63     58.48      0o00
P039019        2000 PH-FIrst Natl Rds Improve.                     150.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    127.88      37.38      0.00
P039022        1999 PHIL-LGU URBAN WATER & SANITATION PROJ          23.30       0.00                0.00       0.00     18.04      16.34      0.00
P057598        1999 RURAL FINANCE III                              150.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    108.91      81.41      0.00
P048588        1999 PHIL-LGU FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT       100.00       0.00                0.00      40.00     56.14     21.14       0.00
P004566        1998 PH-EARLY CHILD DEV.                             19.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     15.19      10.19      0.00
P004576        1998 PHIL-WATER DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT        56.80       0.00                0.00       0.00     32.89     48.44      17.24
P004595        1998 COMMUNITY BASED RESO                            50.00       0.00                0.00      10.00     32.97      27.32      0.00
P051386        1998 SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                              10.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      0.33      0.33       0.00
P037079        1997 AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                            50.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      6.96      -3.24      0.00
P040981        1997 PH-SECOND SUBIC BAY                             60.00       0.00                0.00      23.85     21.02      44.86     21.02
P004613        1997 WATER RESOURCES DEVE                            58.00       0.00                0.00       7.27     28.32      32.59      1.94
P004602        1997 PH-THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION                  113.40       0.00                0.00      20.10     72.68      78.03     29.29
P004611        1996 PHIL-MANILA SEWERAGE II                         57.00       0.00                0.00       9.00     42.00      51.00     21.11
P004571        1996 TRANS GRID REINFORCE                           250.00       0.00                0.00      45.52     80.Q2     110.84     61.67
P004614        1998 RURAL FINANCE II                               150.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      2.64       2.64      0.00
P004567        1995 PH-WOMENS HEALTH & SAFE MOTHERHOOD              18.00       0.00                0.00       4.30      3.11       7.41      3.11
P004403        1994 CONS. OF PRIORITY PR                             0.00       0.00                 00        2.D00     2.96       6.92      0.00
Total:     1537.79      0.00               2.55       162.03     826.91    643.21    155.37
- 52 -



PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1980/82/89/90/94/95  AACT                        0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00
2001               APW Trade                     0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Growth               0.00   4.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   4.00     0.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Manager              0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.04     0.00    0.00
1996               AllAsiaVen Mgmt               0.00   0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01     0.00    0.00
2000               Asian Hospital                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               BataanP/E                    29.82    0.00   10.00  116.55   29.82    0.00   10.00  116.55
1998               DrysdaleFood                 13.46    0.00    0.00   10.00   11.66    0.00    0.00    8.80
2001               Filinvest                    22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1979/90            General Milling               0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.65     0.00    0.00
1998               H&Q PV m                      0.00    5.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.76    0.00    0.00
1989               H&QPV-I                       0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.61     0.00    0.00
1993               H&QPV-l                       0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
2000               MFI MEP                       0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2001               MNTC                         46.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/72/00         Mariwasa                      9.43    0.00    3.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    3.00    0.00
1993/94            Mindanao Power                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               PIATCO                       50.00    0.00    0.00   50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Pagbilao                     30.00   10.00    0.00    3.00   30.00   10.00    0.00    3.00
1992               Pilipinas Shell               0.00    1.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.56    0.00    0.00
2000               PlantersBank                 15.00    0.00    8.71    0.00   15.00    0.00    8.71    0.00
1998               Pryce Gases                  13.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   13.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
2000               SME.com                       0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000               STRADCOM                     12.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    8.00    0.00
1995               Sual Power                   27.19   17.50    0.00  140.05   27.19   17.50    0.00  140.05
1999               UPPC                         20.00    0.00   10.00    0.00   20.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1992               Union Cement                  0.00    5.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.63    0.00    0.00
1994               Walden Mgmnt                  0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1994               Walden Ventures               0.00    1.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.59    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      294.90    51.86   39.71  324.60   176.20  51.77    39.71  273.40
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               AEI                              1.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              Asian Hospital                   0.00      0.00     0.00      5.00
2000               LTO Project                     0.00      0.00     0.00     20.00
2001              PEDF                             4.50      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        5.50     0.00      0.00    25.00
- 53 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: Second Social Expenditure Management Project
Philippines at a glance                                                        4/30/02
Eat     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle.
PhUippines    PeriJ     Incone      Devatopmwnt dimond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mDlbns)                         75.6     1,853     2,046                 Life expectancy
G1NI percapila(Atlas metiod USS)                      1,040     1,060     1,140
GNI (Atls met", USS bilUlon)                           78.8     1,964     2,327
Avexug annual Growth, 1994-00
Populetion (M)                                          2.1       1.1       1.0     G                                G
Labor foce (%)                                          2.6       1A        1.3      GNI                             Goms7
per             pniwy
Most reent estimaet _at er voaviabbb, 1994-00)                                      capita                       enroment
Pverty (% of popuLton heiow nralnrf povw rty Ine)       37          .
Urban populaon (S%tfft W(polaouledn)                    59         35        42
Ufe expectsincy t birthLvea)                            69         69        69
iant noxtstty (er 1,000l Ike brths)                     31         35        32
Child malnutItI on (% df chdren under 5)                30         13        11           Acces to Impmved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% dPoplpatfun)      87         75        80
IWleracy (%, otprlstaon aeM 15+)                         5    .    14        15
Gross pmary enmrment (% ofadoo-agepopuLatb,)           117        119       114              Ph/7ippines
Male                                                   ..       121       116              Lower-nlddleincrome group
Female                                                 ..       121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
10o     1990       1999      2000
Economic ra7tios
GDP (USSibilons)                              32.5     44.3      762       74.7
Gros dromeclnvteslnt/GDP                     29.1      24.2      18.4      17.8
Exports o1 goods and servces/GDP             23.6      27.5      51.0      56.3                     Trae
Gross domestic avtng/GDP                      24.2     16.4      19.2      24.0
Gmss national savngs/GODP                              19.5      28.0      30.3
Currnt account balano/GDP                     -5.9     -5.8      10.0      125     Domestc                      Investment
Intrest payment/GODP                           1.8      3.5       2.7       3.3     eavIngs
Total dbtVGDP                                 53.6     69.0      69.6      720
Total debt servIce/exports                    26.6     27.0      14.0      12.0
Present value of debUVGP                        .        ..      85.1         .
Pr   nt vue of dbexpa rt                                 ,.     111.0         ,
Indebtedness
19uo.o   109rS00     1909       2000S  2000-04
(aye"7 annual gn owfh)
GOP                                  11.0      33       3 4       4.0       4.2         _   PhFlpplnet
GOP per captt7                      -1.2       1.0      I.4       2.1        2 2              Lower-vn/*Deoroe group
Exports of goods and send-es         3.5       7.3      3.6      17.7       5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1960     1990       1999      2W00      Growth of Invastnt and GDP 1%)
(t of GDP)
AgrIculture                                   25.1     21.9       17.1     15.9
Industry                                      36.8     34.5      30.6      31.1     1S;
ManufactulnD                                25.7     24.8       21.6      22.6      o      T
Services                                      38.1     43.6      522       5Z,9             95    g 05 
Private consumpton                           66.7      71.5      68.0      63.2     .20o
General govemrnment cornumption                9.1     10.1       13.1     12.6               -     GDI    -_-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 28.5     33.3      51.3      50.2
(average annua/ growll)                  1   -90(  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
Agrhutture                                     1.0      1.6       6.5       3.3     30
Industry                                      -0.9      32        0.9       3.9     Is
Manucurnt                                    0.2      3.0        1.6       5.6 
ServIces                                       2.8      4.0       4.0       4A4        | 5  f1== 7
Prvate ornsumptcn                              2.2      3.9       0-3      -21       a
General Dovemment consumption                  0.6      3A        6.7       -1.1     01
Gross domesUc Investment                      -2.1      3.1       -2.0      z3              -    E            *    h
Imports of goods and servIes                   3.4      7.7      -2.6       4.0
Note: 2000 data are prelimnary estimates.
The dianonds show four key Indlcators In the country (in bold) cornpared wilt is Incomeroup average. f data are missina, fu diamond wit
be lnomnpbto.
Exports ofgo,s and semices is In local currncy unite.
- 54 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     190       19m      2000       in    I%)
Domesdc prices
(1 change)
Consumer prices                                ..    142        8.7      4.3        _
Implidt GDP deflator                        14.3     13.0       8.0      6.7
Govemment finance
(X of GDP, Indudes cun ent grants)
Current revenue                               ..     18.8      16.1     15.8            95    9s    97   58     o
Curent budget balance                         ..     0.3        0.3     -0.7                 GDP defbtar     CPI
Overall aurplus/defict                        ..     3.5       -3.8     .4.1
TRADE
(US$ myilIons)                             198s     1900      1999      2000     Export and Import levls (USS mitl.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..    8,186    34,210   37.295     40o000
n.a.                                         .
n.a                                                                             .000.
Manufactures                                ..    5,708    31,097    33,394    _*              **
Total Imports (df)                            ..   12208     36278    36,102      .     *        _    _             _
Food                                        ..     858      1.982     1.256    10oo0
Fuel and energy                             ..    1.842     3,395    4,524
Capital goods                               ..    3.122     14,555   15,011       o
94   a    Ia  57   98  Ia    0
Export prIce Index (1995=1009)                ..
Import price Index (1995-100)                 ..      ..         ..       ..                *Export      *mpbrop
Terms ot trade (19950100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mllions)                              logo     1W        19       2000      Currant account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services              7,238  11,430     39.012   41,473     15s
Imports of goods and servAces              9.147  13.987     35287    37,884       I
Resource balance                          -1,911  -2,537      3,704    3,848      0
Net Income                                 .439     .744      4,104    3,788      5*
Net current transfers                       447      714       481       430      o     :iI                           :
Current account balance                   -1,903   -2,587     7,847    9,349                    es*   7 e   Ia  I  Ia
Flnandna Items (net)                       2.794   2,474     -2,889    -9,845
Changes In net reserves                    -891       93     4.941       420     ro
Memo:
Reserves Inctuding gold (US$miliots)           .   Z008     14,987   14,910
Conversion rate (DEC, locailUS$)             7.5    24.3       39.1     44.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
19o0     1990      1990     2000
(US$ mi#itons)                                                                   Compostdon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandIng and dlsbumeed      17,417  30,580     53,0D0   50,100
IBRD                                      928    3,943      4,040    3,827               G       A 3,627
IDA                                        34      101       208       207                     -    -:5.4  ::237
C: 2,032
Total debt service                         2,183   3,590      8,400    8,700                               xD: 3.281
IBRD                                      108      597       841       572
IDA                                         0        2         4         5                         _     -
Composton of net resource flows
Offidal grants                             59      362        170                                            E: 12,3e2
Offidal creditors                         367      935       -130     -215
Private credltora                         948      109      3.920    2,138
Foreign direct Investment                -108      530      1.427    1.584        F: 24.416 
Portfolio equlty                            0        0       422        45
World Bank program
Commitments                               695     1,008      208       255     A- IBO                     E - B00tnt
DIsbursements                             230      507       184       162     8- IDA   0- Othe rmnrdiletrel  F. Prvate
PrincIpal repayments                       33      302       387       352     C * IMF                    G . Shorttern
Net fkws                                  197      206      -223      -190
Interest payments                          73      297       258       225
Nettransrerm                              124      -91      -481      -415
Development Economics                                                                                            4/30102
- 55 -



t9



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27408R2
I       Ii- 'i' *  D;)''^ 
' j
4-~=         -    : ; d's_i                __ 
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



