Report No. PID10506
Project Name             Philippines-Second Social Expenditure...
Management Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Other Public Sector Management; Human
Development
Project ID               PHPE69916
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Implementing Agency
Address DEPT. OF BUDGET & MGMT. WITH
DEPED, DPWH, DOH AND DSWD
Department of Budget and Management (DBM)
Address: DBM Building I, Gen. Solano St.,
San Miguel, Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Underecretary Laura B.
Pascua
Tel: (63-2) 735-4934
Fax: (63-2) 735-4961
Email: lbpascua@dbm.gov.ph
Department of Education (DepEd)
Address: DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue,
Pasig City, Philippines
Contact Person: Undersecretary Ernesto
Pangan
Tel: (63-2) 633-9342
Fax: (63-2) 631-9640
Email: espangan@pacific.net.ph
Department of Health (DOH)
Address: San Lazaro Compound, Sta. Cruz,
Manila, Philippines
Contact Person: Undersecretary Alexander
Padilla
Tel: (63-2) 743-8301
Fax: (63-2) 743-1829
Email: bihc@central.doh.gov.ph
Department of Social Welfare and
Development (DSWD)
Address: DSWD Complex, Batasan Pambansa
Complex, Constitution Hills,
Quezon City
Contact Person: Undersecretary Clifford
Burkley
Tel: (63-2) 931-9147
Fax: (63-2) 931-9146
Email: ccb@philonline.com
Department of Public Works and Highways
(DPWH)
Address: DPWH Building, Bonifacio Drive,
Port Area, Manila



Contact Person: Undersecretary Teodoro Encarnacion
Tel: (63-2) 527-4111
Fax: (63-2) 304-3020 Email:
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        April 29, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 11, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 4, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Wide Issues Overview of Issues in the HD Sectors. By international
standards, the Philippines is considered a medium performer in respect of
human development overall although it outperforms countries of similar GDP
with regards to access to education and gender equity. When indicators
are disaggregated, significant disparities become apparent between the
lowest and highest income groups as well as among regions. Poor
households rely on publicly provided services (schools and health
facilities) which are free or low-cost, but are widely considered to be of
substantially poorer quality than private services. Poor quality is
reflected in low student achievement scores in education, high mortality
and morbidity in health, and overall low levels of satisfaction with
public social services. Insufficient and inefficiently allocated and
executed budgets, coupled with weak governance by National Government
Agencies (DepEd and DOH) and by Local Government Units (LGUs), are mainly
responsible for the poor quality of services. Basic Education. The 1998
Philippines Education Sector Study (PESS) (World Bank, Asian Development
Bank:  Philippines Education for the 21st Century), identified the
following priorities for basic education: (i) adequately finance basic
education inputs and lower unit cost by raising internal efficiency; (ii)
improve teacher effectiveness through better deployment and improved
preparation of teachers; (iii) increase local participation and
accountability; (iv) improve access for the poor through new strategies,
including scholarships; and (v) improve student learning through
curriculum reform, provision of textbooks, use of vernacular in lower
primary grades, and a longer basic education cycle. Basic Health Care.
The Philippines exhibits a disease pattern typical of middle income
countries undergoing a health transition, with non-communicable diseases
on the rise, while infectious diseases remain a threat. The country has
one of the highest population growth rates in the region (2.35%). The
devolution of health services to LGUs in 1991 was intended to make primary
health care more responsive to local users. The main problems with the
current system include insufficient mechanisms for ensuring adequately
funded and technically supported public health programs, a weak hospital
system and an uneven distribution of health human resources. Regulation
of the quality and cost of health services and health products remains
weak. Social Welfare Services. The main sources of vulnerability in the
Philippines are related to climate and economic instability, and in
certain parts of the country, political unrest. At the household level,
this results in lower real incomes due to loss of crops, reduced
employment or higher prices, especially for food. Private transfers
remain the main safety net for those affected. The need for welfare
services is great and much more than the DSWD, a small and reasonably
- 2 -



well-managed social welfare agency can address. However the department's
programs systematically target poor, disadvantaged and extremely
vulnerable populations and provide some measure of a safety net. Social
Expenditures.   The government is the dominant provider of basic
education, accounting for 92t of elementary and 70- of secondary
enrollment. Basic education expenditures are progressive, but higher
education expenditures favor rich households.   More than 90- of the basic
education budget is currently allocated to personnel costs squeezing funds
available for funding maintenance and other operating expenditures (MOOE)
such as textbooks, training, furniture. Public health expenditures have
been growing at about 12t a year in nominal terms (3.8w real) and are
about 2t of GDP. Public sector expenditures occur equally at two levels -
national and local. More than half the DOH budget is devoted to public
hospitals and about 20- to public health programs.    LGUs mainly find
primary health care services, but spend more than 70- of their budgets on
personnel services, leaving limited resources for drugs, supplies and
facilities improvement. Social welfare services effectively cover some of
the poorest and most vulnerable sections, but are severely limited in
scope and coverage. There are few formal social safety nets. Publicly
mandated pensions and social security programs are limited to wage
earners, who constitute less than half the working population, and they
provide limited benefits. The Government's Strategy Education. The
government would like to improve access to and quality of education by
implementing the following strategies: For access, ensuring a school in
every barangay, and expanding secondary schools in hard to reach areas.
For quality, introducing a number of reforms in basic education as
follows: school based management; partnerships (LGUs, civil society,
communities, the private sector); improving efficiency of public
expenditures; curriculum reform; assessment reform and institutionalizing
in-service training (INSET). They would also like to implement
alternative learning systems and demand side interventions. Health.
Government's response to continuing unsatisfactory health outcomes is
embodied in its Health Sector Reform Agenda (HSRA), a strategy adopted by
the Department of Health (DOH) in 1999. Five major areas of reform are
proposed: (i) provide fiscal autonomy to government hospitals, to reduce
their dependence on direct subsidies from government; (ii) secure funding
for priority public health programs, using multi-year budgeting to
guarantee the needed continuity in resource availability; (iii) promote
the development of local health systems and ensure their effective
performance by engaging local government units in cooperative and cost
sharing arrangements to improve local health services and providing them
with the necessary technical assistance to enhance capacity for governance
of health systems; (iv) strengthen the capacities of health regulatory
agencies with special emphasis on the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD); and
(v) expand the coverage of the National Health Insurance Program.
Governance. The Department of Budget and Management with the assistance
of COA, is spear-heading a number of reforms designed to improve budget
execution and monitoring, and the efficiency of public expenditures.
Strategies include the development of a medium term expenditure framework,
performance management systems, financial management reform, and increased
transparency and efficiency in procurement. The underlying direction of
these changes is to improve accountability while increasing the autonomy
of implementing agencies. Recently, the Government has also expressed an
interest in improving accountability and transparency by involving the
public in budget process, particularly budget monitoring and
-3 -



institutionalizing the implementation of a "report card" on pro-poor
public services.
2. Objectives
The project's core objective is to improve basic social services by (i)
enhancing performance (efficiency, quality and equity) and governance
(transparency and accountability) in the three social sector departments -
(Education (DepEd), Health (DOH) and Social Welfare (DSWD)), as well as
the school building program implemented by the Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH) - with the oversight and support of the Department of
Budget and Management (DBM); and (ii) providing quality inputs to such
services. The following strategies will be used to achieve the
objective:n Achieve immediate efficiency gains and quality improvements
through improved planning, procurement and tracking for key inputs such as
textbooks and drugs.n Continue with the medium to long term program for
systems and process improvement begun in the first Social Expenditure
Management Project (SEMP1)- for financial management, procurement and
distribution, and information technology - and institutionalize change in
entire organization including regional offices. Cover additional areas
for expenditure management improvement/reform - management information
systems, human resources management (teacher deployment in particular).n
Support civil society in the development of transparency and
accountability mechanisms - budget analysis, public expenditure tracking,
client feedback.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support will ensure the timely and efficient delivery of input key
social sector programs during a period of fiscal constraints.
International experience in procurement, financial and public expenditure
reform can be shared as a result of Bank involvement. Significant and
immediate cash benefits will accrue as a result of using international
competitive bidding procedures for drugs and textbooks. Monitoring and
evaluation of government programs and the budget will also improve
significantly. Quality technical assistance to support reforms (both
during project preparation and implementation) can have far-reaching and
significant impact as evidenced by the improvements to teacher deployment
that have already been initiated.
4. Description
Project activities are grouped into three main components. The first
will provide budgetary support and improve the cost and quality of inputs
for key programs in education, health and social welfare (some retroactive
financing for expenditures implemented as scheduled under the budget cycle
is included). The second will support the implementation of core
management systems improvement to institutionalize and sustain
improvements in cost and quality of inputs. These include financial
management, procurement, management information and human resources
management systems (teacher deployment in particular). The third will
develop and implement civil society led initiatives to enhance
transparency and accountability of the budget - including budget analysis,
public expenditure tracking, and client feedback. A. Strengthening Key
Budgetary ProgramsA.1 Basic Education covers the provision of key
educational inputs such as textbooks, classrooms, and repairs and
maintenance of existing schools. For each of these inputs, planning,
procurement, quality, distribution and monitoring will be improved. The
- 4 -



construction of classrooms using competitive bidding procedures will help
bridge a large backlog while benchmarking cost and quality.
Responsibility for school repairs and maintenance will be formally
decentralized to the school level. A. 2 Public Health Services covers
the procurement of drugs, vaccines and supplies for important and
effective public health programs - TB control, the Expanded Program for
Immunization (EPI), and the prevention and control of rabies. The recent
decline in a successful immunization program will be reversed by ensuring
the timely and efficienct procurement and distribution of vaccines. A
steady supply of TB control drugs will be assured to the DOTS (Directly
Observed Treatment Strategy) program being implemented with technical
support from WHO. The project will fund the purchase of vaccines for the
Rabies Action Project in the Visayas, combining the strategies of mass dog
immunization, control of dog movement and dog population control.      .A. 3
Social Services are provided through the Comprehensive Integrated Delivery
of Social Services (CIDSS). CIDSS is a proven and highly successful
barangay-centered activity in poor municipalities. The poorest barangays
are identified using minimum basic needs indicators. Communities use the
same indicators to determine their most urgent needs, and subsequently
submit proposals to implement projects that address these needs. Examples
of projects include small portable waterworks, sanitation (household
toilets, drainage garbage and disposal), daycare centers, (improvements,
materials), skills training, farm to market roads, drying pavements,
livelihood development projects. The project will finance small grants to
communities (up to $5000) for such projects. B. Systems Improvement and
Reform. Technical assistance and management systems will be provided
under this component for the following: (i) further implementation of the
financial management, procurement and IT improvement program initiated
under SEMP1 in DepEd and DSWD and support for on-going financial
management, procurement and IT improvement in DOH; (ii) teacher
deployment and human resources planning in DepEd; (iii) management
information systems strengthening in DepEd, particularly with regard to
teachers, textbooks, school buildings and desks and chairs; and (iv)
strengthening of the Bureau of Food and Drugs (BFAD).C. Strengthening
Transparency and Accountability: SEMP 2 will support the development and
insitutionalization of civil society initiatives to strengthen
transparency and accountability in the various stages of the budget
process. These include analyzing and demystifying budgets (the Budge
Advocacy Group); tracking expenditures (Government watch or G-Watch), and
leakages (Procurement Watch) and obtaining client feedback (Filipino
Report Card). Technical assistance will be provided to review and refine
methodologies for each of these activities. Second, the activities will
be linked through a focus on the social sector agencies. Third, there
will be one round of implementation of the initiatives. The results of
the implementatation would be shared with the agencies to enable them to
improve performance, and with the Congress and the public to strengthen
accountability. Finally, the tools that underpin these initiatives will
be popularized and made available to interested citizen groups for
continuous national and local application.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $15.35
IBRD $100.00
-5-



IDA
Total Project Cost $115.35
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented for a period of 3.5 years, from August
2002 to December 2005. Overall responsibility for the project will be
vested in the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) in collaboration
with the Commission on Audit (COA) and the line agencies (DepEd, DOH, DSWD
and DPWH). The central and regional offices of the implementing line
agencies (DECS, DOH, DSWD and DPWH), will be responsible for
implementation of the specific project components. An inter-agency
Steering Committee, chaired by the DBM Secretary, and including the
Agency Undersecretaries and project directors, will provide overall
strategic direction for the project, review project progress and solve any
inter-agency issues that may arise. Project Management Units (PMUs) in
the DBM and in each of the line agencies will be headed by a full time
manager who reports to the Undersecretary for Finance of each implementing
agency. The PMUs will: (i) support and facilitate the expeditious
implementation of each component in conformity with agreed procurement
procedures; (ii) review and validate payment requests from implementing
units and preparing statements of expenditure; (iii) complete agreed
monitoring reports and facilitate monthly project monitoring; and (iv)
ensure that agreed benchmarks are met. The PMUs will be staffed by a core
group of agency personnel with accounting and monitoring
responsibilities. Each of the agencies will also establish regional
project management groups comprising the regional directors and their
planning and financial officers.
7. Sustainability
The project will finance basic social services that are normally funded
out of the country budget and hence the maintenance and continued
operation of the assets is confirmed. The sustainability of the sector
reform program however depends to a large extent on the political will and
priorities of subsequent administrations as well as the management and
leadership of the agencies. Maintaining incentives for transparency and
accountability in subsequent administrations depends on the success of
civil society to institutionalize efforts in this direction.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The most important lesson from the recent/on-going projects in the Bank
human development portfolio in the Philippines is that the implementation
of Bank funded projects can be seriously impeded without adequate
implementation capacity and management oversight in the implementing
agency. Complex projects in weak institutional settings are particularly
vulnerable. In particular, lack of capacity for procurement can derail
the implementation of all components and the project's impact on the
ground. Institutional capacity, including management ownership, and
credible actions to address capacity issues are therefore critical for
project success. The social expenditure management projects have been
designed specifically to bring about the necessary system-wide management
improvements that will benefit future operations as well as present
investments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
- 6 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project does not present any significant
environmental risks. Activities involving minor infrastructure
development and rehabilitation shall comply with all relevant national
regulations for sanitation, solid waste management, building codes, and
land use zoning regulations. For sub-projects under CIDSS, a negative
list has been agreed, to rule out purchases of pesticides, insecticides,
and/or other harmful chemicals. The criteria to be adopted for
sub-projects are specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jayshree Balachander
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-9798
Fax:   (202) 522-3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-7-



