Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7118 PH
Loan Agreement
(Second Social Expenditure Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 12, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7118 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Page  2
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have the following meanings: 
(a)
 “Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Borrower’s central bank and any 
successor thereto;
(b)
“Barangay” means a political sub-division within a city or a municipality;
(c)
“Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services” and “CIDSS” mean 
the Borrower’s on-going program of support to the poorest Barangays, established by Executive 
Order 443 of 1997,  for the carrying out of community-based projects;
(d)
“CIDSS Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of 
theproceeds of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees to finance the cost of a 
Sub-project under Part A.3 of the Project;
(e)
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, and any 
successor thereto;
(f)
“DEPED” means the Borrower’s Department of Education, and any successor 
thereto;
(g)
“DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, and any successor thereto;
(h)
“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and Highways and 
any successor thereto;
(i)
“DSWD” means the Borrower’s Department of Social Welfare an Development, 
and any successor thereto;
(j)
“Framework for the Treatment of Indigenous Peoples” means the framework set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual, and acceptable to the Bank, providing guidelines to 
Page  3
mitigate any social or cultural impact of the Project on Indigenous Peoples and including 
screening and monitoring procedures;
(k)
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31;
(m)
“Grantee” and “Grantees” mean a person or entity, or persons or entities,
respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Parts A.1 (b) and A.3 of the 
Project;
(n)
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development process, 
including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a close attachment 
to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and 
identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, 
often different from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political 
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production;
(o)
“Peoples’ Organization” means an organization established at the Barangay level 
and legally empowered to act on behalf of the Barangay or the thresidents of the Barangay, to 
carry out Sub-projects under Part A. 3 of the Project;
(p)
“Peso” and “PHP” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(q)
“Poor Barangay” means a Barangay: (i) within a third to a sixth class 
municipality, the classification of which is based on income, and (ii) within a city     with a large 
population living below the Borrower’s poverty threshold;
(r)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, including the Manual for 
the School-based Repair and Maintenance Scheme and the CIDSS Operations Manual, to assist 
DBM, DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD in the implementation of the Project through the 
description of, among others: (i) procurement procedures (including the supplemental letter on 
procurement procedures of even date with this Agreement) and standard documentation as set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) reporting requirements and financial management 
procedures, including audit procedures, as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, (iii) the 
Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, (iv) environmental 
criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out 
under a Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and (v) the Framework for Treatment of Indigenous Peoples; as such Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(s)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established within each of DBM, 
DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD, to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(t)
“School Repair and Maintenance Grant” means a grant made available by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees to 
Page  4
finance the cost of a Sub-project under Part A.1 (b) of the Project;
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(v)
“Steering Committee” means the inter-agency committee established pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(w)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project, income 
generating project or social services project carried out by a Grantee under Parts A.1 (b) and A.3 
of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant made available in accordance with a 
Sub-project Implementation Agreement; and
(x)
“Sub-project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the relevant Grantee or Grantees and DEPED for purposes of implementing the 
activities under a Sub-project under Parts A.1 (b) of the Project, and between the relevant 
Grantee or Grantees and DSWD for purposes of implementing the activities under a Sub-project 
under Part A.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (i) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Grant under Parts A.1 (b) and 
A.3 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a 
Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and works required for Parts A.1 (a), A.1 (c), A.2, B and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan: and (iii) in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral 
ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
Page  5
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount 
of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be changed from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Part A.1 (a) through DEPED and DPWH; (ii) Parts A.1 (b), A. 
1
(c), and B.2 of the Project through DEPED; (iii) Parts A.2 and B.3 of the Project through DOH; 
(iv) Part A.3 of the Project through DSWD; (v) Parts B.1 and B.4 of the Project through DEPED, 
DOH and DSWD; and (vi) and Part C of the Project through DBM, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, educational, 
engineering, financial, and management practices, and sound environmental and social standards, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project
.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree (a) procurement of the goods and 
works required for Parts A.1 (a), A.1 (c), A.2, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
and (b) procurement of the goods and works required for Parts A.1(b) and A.3 of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Annex 
to Schedule 5 to this Agreement .
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the 
purposes of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
Page  7
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 12 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
Page  8
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days
 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such 
first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.
A
RTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Steering Committee has been established in accordance with paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 5.02.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
SECFIN 40268CB-CONF
(63-2) 
526-9990
Page  9
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Manila, 
Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
/s/ Jose Isidro Camacho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Robert Vance Pulley
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
Page  10
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
9,700,000
75%
(2)
Goods
63,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,100% of 
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
School Repair and
12,300,000
80% of Grant amount
Maintenance Grants
disbursed
(4)
CIDSS Grants
8,000,000
80% of Grant amount
disbursed
(5)
Incremental operating costs  
1,000,000
50%
(6)
Fee
1,000,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
5,000,000
TOTAL
100,000,000
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred 
by: (i) Project staff of DBM, DEPED, DOH, DSWD  and DPWH for staff travel, per diem, 
communications and consumables, but excluding staff salaries, and (ii) reasonable expenditures 
incurred by Government staff being trained under the Project for staff travel, per diem, 
communications, consumables and rental for training facilities; which expenditures would not 
have been incurred absent the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000[the equivalent of],000 may be made 
in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 2002; and (b) a Grant under 
Categories (3) and (4) unless a Sub-project Implementation Agreement has been entered into in 
accordance with the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, 
excluding vaccines and pharmaceuticals; (iii) Grants; and (iv) incremental operating costs; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving basic social services 
(i) by enhancing performance and governance in the education, health and social services sectors, 
and (ii) by providing inputs to such services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A
1.
(a)
Construction of: (i) classrooms at existing elementary and secondary schools and 
(ii) one-classroom satellite elementary and secondary schools, totaling about 1,750 classrooms, 
in selected Barangays, and provision of related school equipment.
(b)
Carrying out of school repair and maintenance Sub-projects through the 
provision of about 40,000 School Repair and Maintenance Grants to elementary schools. 
Page  12
(c)
Provision of textbooks, teachers’ manuals and related educational materials to 
elementary and secondary schools. 
2.
Strengthening of DOH’s public health program, including the expanded program for 
immunization, the national tuberculosis control program and the prevention and control of rabies, 
through the provision of anti-tuberculosis drugs, vaccines (including  animal rabies vaccines) and 
related supplies to health centers and facilities.
3.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment Sub-projects, income generating Sub-projects 
and social services Sub-projects in Poor Barangays through the provision of CIDSS Grants to 
Peoples Organizations.
PART B
1.
Strengthening the capacity of DEPED, DOH and DSWD to improve their management 
systems, including financial management, procurement and communications and information 
systems.
2.
Strengthening the human resources management capacity of DEPED through the 
institutionalization of the new-teacher deployment system, including teacher deployment 
monitoring.
3.
Strengthening and improving the capacity of DOH’s Bureau of Food and Drugs to issue 
certificates of product registration, to accredit and conduct laboratory testing and inspections, 
and to issue Good Manufacturing Practice certifications in accordance with acceptable 
performance standards.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and staff training for purposes of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 
of this Part of the Project.
PART C
Development and implementation by DBM of transparency and accountability initiatives 
for the Borrower’s budgetary processes in the education, health and social welfare sectors, 
including provision of technical assistance to DBM and provision of related training to 
government staff. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  13
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %
)
October 15, 2002
0.00%
April 15, 2003
0.00%
October 15, 2003
0.00%
April 15, 2004
0.00%
October 15, 2004
0.00%
April 15, 2005
0.00%
October 15, 2005
0.00%
April 15, 2006
0.00%
October 15, 2006
0.00%
April 15, 2007
0.00%
October 15, 2007
0.00%
April 15, 2008
0.00%
October 15, 2008
0.00%
April 15, 2009
0.00%
October 15, 2009
0.00%
April 15, 2010
0.00%
October 15, 2010
1.70%
April 15, 2011
1.92%
October 15, 2011
2.16%
April 15, 2012
2.43%
October 15, 2012
2.73%
April 15, 2013
3.07%
October 15, 2013
3.46%
April 15, 2014
3.89%
October 15, 2014
4.37%
April 15, 2015
4.92%
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %
)
October 15, 2015
5.54%
April 15, 2016
6.23%
October 15, 2016
7.01%
April 15, 2017
7.88%
October 15, 2017
8.87%
Page  14
April 15, 2018
9.98%
October 15, 2018
11.22%
April 15, 2019
12.62%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
Procurement
Section I
. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), the provisions of the Supplemental Letter on Procurement Procedures of even date 
with this Agreement and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 4 below, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  16
2.
Direct Contracting
Mathematics textbooks which are of a proprietary nature and costing $2,750,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and pre-fabricated school classrooms which are of a 
proprietary nature and costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Rabies vaccines, costing $1,010,000 or less in the aggregate, may be procured from the 
World Health Organization and other vaccines, costing $9,600,000 or less in the aggregate, may 
be procured through the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, (ii) the first three contracts for works estimated to cost $50,000 or more but 
less then $300,000, and (iii) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts for works in each Fiscal Year to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C. 4 above and estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, and each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraphs C.2 and C.3 above, the following 
procedures shall apply:
Page  17
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, 
from UN Agencies or small works procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish by Joint Department Order, and thereafter maintain until 
completion of the Project, the Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of DBM, as lead 
agency, and consisting of representatives from DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD, to monitor 
the progress of the Project and coordinate Project activities.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the Project Management 
Unit in each of DBM, DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD, headed by a Project Coordinator, with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, and reporting to the designated 
Undersecretary, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and 
staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, including financial, 
accounting, procurement and monitoring and evaluation specialists, as required for the 
management of the activities under the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the 
Project Implementation Manual, and shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the 
Project Implementation Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.
4.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that all land required for purposes 
of the Project is purchased from a willing seller following commercial practices in the area or is 
donated by a willing donor.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure, at all times, that:
(a)
in carrying out Part A.1 (b) of the Project, public information, aimed at 
disclosing to inhabitants of Barangays all administrative, financial, environmental, social, 
procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and 
implementation of Sub-projects, including the Manual for the School-based Repair and 
Page  18
Maintenance Scheme, is available free of charge at the offices of the School Head; and 
(b)
in carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, public information, aimed at disclosing to 
inhabitants of Barangays all administrative, financial, environmental, social, procedural and 
technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation of 
Sub-projects, including the CIDSS Operations Manual is available free of charge at the offices of 
the Barangay Captain.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that Sub-projects are selected for purposes of Parts A.1 (b) 
and A.3 of the Project in accordance with the criteria and the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule and in the Project Implementation Manual.
7.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
avoid, and, if not possible, minimize cultural, social and economic adverse 
effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project; and
(b)
through a process of informed consultation and participation, involve concerned 
Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of Sub-projects so as to ensure that the 
benefits received by the Indigenous Peoples under the Project are in harmony with their 
economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights.
8.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DEPED, DOH and DSWD 
to furnish to the Bank for comments, by March 31, 2003, draft financial management, 
procurement, and information systems and technology improvement plans, and, promptly 
thereafter, carry out such improvement plans taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, 
if any. 
9.
In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DOH to:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments by November 30, 2002, a draft time-bound 
action plan to address: (i) the streamlining of the functions of its Bureau of Food and Drugs, (ii) 
the strengthening of the capacity of such Bureau to carry out its responsibilities, and (iii) the 
accreditation of private laboratories; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, implement the action plan taking into account the comments 
of the Bank thereon, if any. 
10.
In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DEPED and DBM, by 
December 31, 2004, to institutionalize the new-teacher deployment system, agreed with the 
Bank.
11.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DBM to furnish to the 
Bank for comments, by December 31, 2003, draft action plans for the initiatives, and promptly 
thereafter, implement such action plans taking into account the comments of the Bank, if any.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
Page  19
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about January 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 29, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
Annex to Schedule 5
Selection Criteria and Procurement Procedures for Sub-Projects
1.
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (c) relate to 
the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products (including pesticides, 
ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials containing asbestos, arms and 
drugs); (d) relate to activities producing liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions at harmful 
levels; (e) relate to activities using, producing, storing or transporting hazardous materials and 
wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to activities in protected areas; or (h) include the financing 
of government salaries or taxes.
2.
Goods and works under Sub-projects shall be procured in accordance with community 
participation procedures acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
A.
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A.1 (b) of the Project
1.
Each Sub-project proposed shall be a public infrastructure investment project which is 
technically, financially and environmentally viable, and socially and economically justified.
2.
The estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall not be more than PHP100,000 per 
year.
3.
A Sub-project Implementation Agreement shall be entered into between the Grantee 
school and DEPED, on terms and conditions set forth in the Manual for the School-based Repair 
and Maintenance Scheme.
B.
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project
1.
Each Sub-project proposed shall be a public infrastructure investment Sub-project, an 
income generating Sub-project or a social services Sub-project which is technically financially 
and environmentally viable, and socially and economically justified. 
Page  20
2.
The estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall be not more than PHP300,000.
3.
A Sub-project Implementation Agreement shall be entered into between the Grantee 
Peoples’ Organization and DSWD, on terms and conditions set forth in the CIDSS Operations 
Manual.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Baseline
December 31, 
2003
Closing Date
Source of Data
A. 1
: 
Basic Education
1. Textbook: pupil ratio in 4 core 
subjects (math, science, English 
and Filipino)
1:2.5
1: 1.5
1:1
DEPED MIS; 
textbook survey
2. Distribution of textbooks
20 million
50 million
FMR
3. Construction of about 1,750 
new classrooms
750
1,750
FMR
4. Provision of Grants for repair 
and maintenance of school 
buildings
20,000 Grants
40,000 Grants
FMR
A.2: Basic Health
1. Reduction of measles cases by 
50%
7,194 cases
< 5,000
< 3,500
DOH/hospital 
reported cases
2. Increase Child Protected at 
Birth (CPAB) for tetanus toxoid 
by 100%
0.2/1000 live 
births
0.3/1000 live births
0.4/1000 live births
DOH/health 
records
3. Resume polio free certification 
<1 case per 100,000 
in under 15 
population
Surveillance data
4. Increase coverage of fully 
immunized child
61%
63%
67%
National Statistics 
Office survey
5. Rabies free Visayas
6 cases per 
million 
population
< 4 cases per million
< 1 case per million 
population
DOH
6. Increase TB smear-positive 
notification rate
85
95
100
DOTS reports
7. Improve TB Cure rate
80%
83%
85%
DOTS reports
8. Administration of TB drugs
160,000 patients
200,000 patients
FMR
A.3: Social Services
1. Implement CIDSS 
Sub-projects
1000
2000
FMR
Page  21
Baseline
December 31, 
2003
Closing Date
Source of Data
B.1: Strengthening of 
FM/Procurement/IT 
systems
1. Prepare draft FM- Procurement 
- IT improvement plans 
Completed
2. Spread sheet based accounting 
system installed in central 
offices of DEPED and DSWD
Completed
3. Implement a MIS flash 
reporting system in DEPED, 
DSWD and DOH
Completed
4. Implement streamlined budget 
process in DEPED, DOH and 
DSWD
Completed
5. Reconstitute procurement unit 
and streamline procurement 
processes in DEPED and DOH
Initiated
Completed
6. DEPED Annual statistics 
published within 6 months of 
year end
SY 2002-2003 
stats published
SY 2003/2004 
stats published
7. Adopt contract distribution 
system in DOH
Adopted
Maintained
Maintained
8. Form interim IT organization in 
DEPED
Completed
B.2: Human Resources 
Management Improvement
1. Reduce number of schools with 
pupil:teacher ratio > 50:1
500
250
<100
2. Inter Quartile Ratio for teacher 
deployment at division, region 
and national level
2
1.5
1
3. Adopt new teacher deployment 
system in DEPED
Completed
B.3: Strengthen Bureau of Food 
and Drugs 
1. Adopt plan for streamlining 
Bureau of Food and Drugs
Completed
2. Define and maintain Bureau of 
Food and Drugs performance 
standards
Defined
Maintained
C: Increase Transparency and  
Accountability
1. Develop and implement a 
Public Expenditure Tracking 
System
Developed
Implemented
2. Increase in client 
satisfaction with basic social 
services
Report Card 
Survey 2000
Second Report 
Card Survey 
completed
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
Page  22
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000  until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
Page  23
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount
.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  24
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
