                                                                        44814



                       DATA SHEET FOR PROJECT PAPER




Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?
 ave these been approved by Bank management?
s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?




documented in Annex 1.


INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT

1.      Thisproject paper seeksthe approval o fthe Executive Directorsto introduce the
following changes inthe China Zhejiang UrbanEnvironment Project (ZUEP) LoanNo.
4724-CHA, P066955, and accompanying amendmentsto the project's legal documents.
The proposed changes involve (i) utilizationof loan savings to support investments
                                      the
for the rehabilitation o f the historic Yue Kingdom Conservation area in Shaoxing; and (ii)
the increase o f the disbursement percentage from 80% to 100% for works' carried out in
Shaoxing andpaidby Shaoxing after December 1,2007. The proposed new investments
are inline with andwill contribute toward meeting the original project development
objective o f redeveloping the historic inner city inShaoxing.

BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

2.      Project Development Objective. The project was approved bythe Bank's Board
on January 29,2004 andbecame effective on November lst, 2004. The overall project
development objective i s to enhancethe efficiency and equity o fwaste management in
the municipalities o fNingbo andHangzhou, and to support the redevelopment ofthe
historic inner city o f Shaoxing and Cicheng, thereby facilitating the sustainable
development ofthese cities and establishing a model for the conservation o f cultural
heritage inother Chinese cities.

3.      Original Project Scope. The original project has the following seven components:
(i) networkandtreatmentinSouthJiangdongdistrictofNingbo;(ii)
    sewage                                                                               sewage
network and treatment inZhenhai district o fNingbo; (iii)           infrastructure upgrading in
Cicheng Town inJiangbei district o fNingbo Municipality; (iv) road and sewage
infrastructure inDongqianLake inNingbo; (v) housingrenovation, heritage conservation
andinfrastructure upgradinginShaoxinghistoric inner city; (vi) expansion o fTianziling
landfillinHangzhou; and(vii) technical assistance for institutional/ financial utility
reform; design review advisory and constructionmanagement; industrialpollution
control; tourism development/ communityparticipation; and heritage conservation and
urbanupgrading.

4.      Progress Made. Goodprogress hasbeenachieved toward meetingthe project's
development objective and the project has always beenin"satisfactory" status as reported
the project ISRs. While some institutional and sector reforms are lagging, physical
implementation inall three project cities i s progressing well, and significant technical
assistance activities are ongoing. The redevelopment o f the historic inner city o f
Shaoxing is advanced while corresponding developments under a smaller component in
Cicheng are behindschedule. InNingbo, two largewastewater treatment plants and
associated sewage networks are complete. The expansion o f Hangzhoulandfill i s also
well advanced.

5.      Loan Savings. However, by the end o f June 2008, only US$ 52.87 millionor 40%
o f the World Bank loan o fUS$ 133 millionhadbeendisbursed.Limiteddisbursements

IThe higher disbursement percentage applies to boththe original and proposedadditional investments,


                                                   2

are due to significant loan savings inNingbo and Shaoxing, estimated to total US$ 56
million (US$33 million for Shaoxing andUS$23 million for Ningbo). The loan savings
are principally the result of: (i)
                                 contract savings due to lower thanestimated contract
costs and unused contingencies; (ii) reduced contract scope and deletedcontracts due to
changes inthe urbanplans and technical designs; and (iii)  implementation o f contracts
usingonly localfinds.

6.     New Investments. Bothproject cities have already identifiedadditional
investmentsto utilize project loansavings. InNingbo, the inclusion o fthe Jiangnan
wastewater treatment plant i s proposedwith an estimated total project cost ofUS$ 107.8
million. Shaoxing proposes to usethe Bank loanto rehabilitate the Yue Kingdom
Conservation Area with an estimated project cost o fUS$ 125.8 million. The revised
project cost estimates, including the proposed new sub-components inShaoxing and
Ningbo, are shown intable 1below.

                          Table 1: RevisedProject Cost Estimates



    Shaoxing                             121.3                       192.3
    Hangzhou                             34.1                         34.1
    Consultantsand Training              38.3                         31.1
    Front-endFee                          1.3                          1.3
                        Total            335.2                       479.3




PROPOSEDCHANGES

8.     Shaoxing-Original       Project. The original Shaoxing component was focused on
housingrenovationand heritage conservation inthe old town, upgrading ofbasic
underground infrastructure, canal rehabilitation and flood control, and investmentsin
roads, bridges andparks.Most o f the original project components have already been
completed, with the remainingwork to be completed by the end o f 2009. However, the
majority o f components were financed usingonly local funds. This was necessary in
order to complete these contracts on time for the Shaoxing International Cultural
Conference in2004. This would not have beenpossible otherwise, inlight o f loan signing
andeffectiveness delays causedby factors outside of Shaoxing's direct control. Also, the




                                              3

scope o f some contracts was reduced inlight o f changes inurbanplans. For example,
under some housingreconstruction components, urbanplanschangedwhich required
landscape constructionandwideningo froads reducing the scope o f the envisaged
housingrenovation. Intotal, about 75% o f the original project components were
completed usingonly local funds, with the remaining25% co-financed by the Bank.The
financing arrangements and status for Shaoxing's original project components are
summarized inTable 2.




        *After contract adjustments due to changes in urban plans are taken into account. The impact of
        contract adjustments is about 20% of the total contract volume.

9.      Despite these changes all original project monitoring indicators are essentially
met.The original project monitoringindicators include the following: (1) thepercentage
o f housingrenovation completed with a target o f all housingrenovation to be completed
bythe endo f endo f 2007. This indicator has largelybeenmet after contract adjustments
due to changes inurbanplans are taken into account; (2) an improvement ofwater quality
inthe canals ofthehistoric inner city-with          a target o f class IV water by 2007. This
indicator has beenmet with water quality improved to class IV by 2007; (3) the
percentage o f sewage coverage inthe historic inner city with a target o f 76% by 2007.
This indicator has also beenmetwith actual coverage havingreached 76%; and (4) an
increase in sewage treatment capacity-with          a target rate o f 550,000 m3/ day by 2005.
This indicator has beensurpassedwith actual sewage treatment capacity having reached
600,000 m3/ day by 2005. For additional informationon the monitoringindicators, see
Annex 1.

10.    Shaoxing-Proposed Changes.Shaoxing proposes to use its loan savings to
finance the rehabilitationo f the Yue Kingdom Conservation area. This new component
will contribute to the originalproject development objective ofrehabilitating the historic
inner city o f Shaoxing. It i s intendedto preserve and renovate the cultural heritage sites in


                                                   4

the Yue Kingdom areaand to providebasic underground infrastructure. The Yue
Kingdom Conservation area is situated inShaoxing's core urbanarea, on FushunHillin
the Yuezicheng Precinct covering about 40 ha. Theproject will substantially improve the
 environmentalcleanliness and appearance of FushanHill,partiallyrestore the original
 appearanceo f historic sites, andupgrade housing conditions for residents. The project has
three specific sub-components: (i)       FushanHilllandscaping and improvement o fpublic
spaces; (ii)   construction o f a Yue Kingdom Museum, an underground car park, and basic
underground infrastructure; and (iii)       constructiono f a leisure square, andthe restoration
o fhistoric housing and a temple. Details of the proposed investment components are
provided inTable 3 below.

                Table 3: S: ioxingAdditional Investments: Yue Kingdom Area*

         Component                                                              ProjectCost (million)
                                                   outputs
                                                                                 R M B I     USD
   (1) FushanHill             FushanHilllandscaping = 200,000 m2                  40.0        5.7
   landscaping and           Renovate Historical buildings = 900 m2
   improvement o fpublic      Construct east underground car park = 3,000 m2
   spaces.                   Upgrade east entrance = 310m2
                              Construct a tourist information center = 900 m2
                              Construct a leisure square = 1,200 m2
   (2) Construction o f a     Construct a Yue KingdomMuseum= 9,449 m2
   Yue KingdomMuseum, Construct underground car park andbasic
   anunderground car park undergroundutility infrastructure = 16,000 m2
   andbasic underground
   utilityinfrastructure.
   (3) Construction o f a
   leisure square, historic  Construct a leisure square = 11,000 m2
   housingand temple         Restoration o f Town God Temple = 5,500 m
   restoration.              Restoration o f housing= 4.066 m2
   Total: * excluding                                                         I  184.0    I  26.3
                      land ai resettlement cost

11.      Implementation and Scope of Restructuring. Implementationo f component one
already commenced in September 2007. Implementationof component two and three i s
expected to beginby October 2008, with all three partsto be completed before the end o f
2009. To rehabilitate the Yue Kingdom Conservationarea usingthe Bank loan, it i s
proposed that: (i)    category (7) of Schedule 1o f the Loan Agreement be adjusted to
increase Shaoxing's civil works financingpercentage from 80% to 100%for
expenditures paid after December 1st, 20072;and (ii)            the rehabilitation of Yue Kingdom
Conservation areabe added to item 5 o fPart D o f Schedule 2 the LoanAgreement. The
increase ofthe financing percentage for civil works was requestedby Shaoxing so as to
enable Shaoxing to utilize most o f its loan original loan allocation o fUS$ 39 million.




2 The original Ministryo fFinance request indicatedaretroactive financing date ofJanuary lst, In
                                                                                           2008.
consultations with counterparts, however, December 1st, 2007 was specified to accommodateretroactive
financing for expenditures made inDecember 2007. The estimated signing date for the legal amendmentsi s
September lS', and the estimated expenditure to be retroactivelypaidi s US$4.3 million.
               2008


                                                      5

12.     ProjectedLoan Utilization.With the inclusiono f the rehabilitation o f the Yue
Kindgom Conservation area and an adjusted financing percentage o f civil works to
loo%,   Shaoxing's loan savings are reduced to an estimated US$ 6.7 million. Shaoxing
does not intendto use the remainingloan savings, but plansto make them available to
Ningbo for its proposed new investment instead. The necessary loan reallocations will be
made inthe context ofthe plannedsecond phase o f the restructuring to reflect Ningbo's
new project components. With the proposedrestructuredNingbo and Shaoxing
components included inthe project, the original Bank loan o fUS$ 133 million will be
fully utilized.

ANALYSIS

13.     Appraisal Summary. The Yue Kingdom Conservation Area investmentswere
fully appraised bythe Bank along all keytechnical, economic, financial, and institutional
dimensions (Le. through reviews o fthe feasibility study). The new investments were
found to hrther contribute to the redevelopment o f the inner city o f Shaoxing, thereby
reinforcing the project's original development objective. The specific incrementalimpact
on the economic, financial, and institutional aspects o f the project i s as follows:

    Economic. Economic benefitswill be generated through the improvement o f a key
    culturalheritage area, and associatedpublic spaces, inShaoxing's core urban area.
    The base case economic internalrate o freturn(EIRR) for the Yue Kingdomproject
    investmentis 18.7% based on the estimation ofthe quantifiable benefits such as
    increasedtourism revenue andpropertyvalues.

    Financial. Responsibility for repaying the Bank loan will hlly rest with the Shaoxing
    Municipal Government. Fiscalreceipts o f Shaoxing Municipality have continuedto
    grow strongly over recent years andit is estimated that debt service payments for the
    Bankloanwillnot exceed 1%of Shaoxing's projectedfiscalrevenues.

    Institutional. Shaoxing UrbanEnvironment Project Office under the Construction
    Bureauo f Shaoxing Municipality will be the implementationagency for the Yue
    Kingdom Conservation areaproject. This i s inline with its current responsibilities for
    implementing Shaoxing's existing project components.

14.     Safeguards. The new investment components do not change the environmental
category o f the project which remains category A, trigger any new safeguard policies, or
require any exceptions to Bankpolices. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for
the Yue Kingdom hasbeencompleted andwas cleared by the Bank's safeguard unit.As
the new investmentsare interventionsto promote environmental improvement and
cultural heritage preservation it was assessed that any adverse impactswill be site
specific and insignificant, and can bereadily managed with common good practice. The
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for Yue Kingdom has also beencompleted andwas
cleared by the Bank's safeguard unit.The EIA and RAPhave beenpublically disclosed.




                                             6

15.      Procurement. The procurement and project implementation plan for the new
investmentcomponents are inplace. They were reviewedandfound acceptable bythe
Bank's procurement team.

16.      Financial Management. As there are no changes inthe institutional
arrangements, the financial management supervision arrangements remainunchanged.
Current financial management practices are assessedto be fully satisfactory.

EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

17.      Outcome Indicators. The proposed new investment will further support the
project development objective o fredeveloping the historic inner city inShaoxing. The
existing monitoring indicators developed for Shaoxing have largelybeenmet (see
paragraph 9). For the new investment components, additional monitoring indicators were
developed. Unlikethe original project monitoring indicatorswhich were output
indicators, the new indicators have a stronger focus on outcomes reflecting the Bank's
changed results framework. These outcome indicators were selected to ensure that they
are directly attributable to the project interventions. The new indicators are as follows,
with baseline indicators collectedthrough a survey andproject completiontargets agreed:

0   Indicator (1): the percentage o fvisitors satisfied with the accessibility o f the Yue
    Kingdom Conservation area [baseline: 40.6%, with monitoring target o f greater than
     65% at the time o fproject completion in20101; and


0   Indicator (2): the percentage o fvisitors satisfied with the environmental cleanliness o f
    the Yue Kindgom Conservation area [baseline: 44.2%, with monitoringtarget of
     greater than 65% at the time o fproject completion in20101.

18.      Going forward, the updated integrated monitoring indicators for the original and
new project components, as attached inAnnex 1, will be usedfor project supervision and
evaluation. The original monitoringindicators were based on the Bank's old log-frame
approach and contained inconsistencies, with some indicatorsnot clearly defined. While
it is not feasible at this stageto retrofit the Bank's new results framework for the original
project components (as baselines cannot be established retroactively) the original output
indicators were reviewed, clarified, andupdated. As mentioned above, the new project
components have a stronger focus on outcomes.

BENFITSAND RISKS

19.      Risks. The risks associated with the new investment components are low. Some
risk exists withrespect to the realizationofthe full benefits ofthe project, through for
example, lower than estimated tourism revenue and or property appreciation which would
reduce the economic impact o f the project. However, sensitivity analysis indicatedthat
even with reduced measurable benefits substantial economic value o f the project would
still be ensured.




                                                 7

20.     Furthermore, while implementationi s projectedto be completed by the end o f
2009-six    monthbefore the loan closing date o f June 30,2010-there    remains residual
risk that the new sub-component may require an extension o fthe closing date ifthey run
into unforeseen implementation difficulties. This risk, however, i s assessed to be low as
constructionhas already begunand Shaoxing has a strong track recordo f implementing
the existingproject components. Possible project extension requirements,ifthey were to
occur, would be addressedinthe context o f the anticipated secondphase project
restructuring for the Ningbo sub-component.




                                             8

                         Annex 1:Shaoxing Project Monitoring Indicators

                                                   Original Target         Revised New Target

Monitoring Indicators-Original       Project
Components
Percentage of housingrenovationcompleted        Plan = 100%by 2007            75% by 2010*
("/.I                                          Actual = 70% in2007*

Water quality incanals inthe historic inner    Plan = Class IV by 2007              n.a.
city (class of water)                          Actual = Class IV in2007

Sewage coverage ratio inthe historic inner        Plan 85% by 2010                  n.a.
city (%)
Installedwastewater treatment capacity (1000       Plan 2006 = 550                  n.a
m3/d)                                             Actual 2006 = 600

Monitoring Indicators-New        Components/

Percentage of visitors satisfied with the                n.a.           I Baseline: 40.6% in2008
accessibility of the Yue Kingdom                                          Target: > 65% by 2010
Conservation area (%)
Percentage of visitors satisfied with the                n.a.             Baseline: 44.2% in2008
environmental cleanliness ino fthe Yue                                    Target: >65%by 2010
Kindgom Conservation area (%)




                                                 9

