Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/08/2010 
Report No.:  AC4952
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  China 
Project ID:  P066955 
Project Name:  Zhejiang Urban Environment Project 
Task Team Leader:  Axel E. N. Baeumler 
Estimated Appraisal Date: August 25, 2003 
Estimated Board Date: January 29, 2004 
Managing Unit:  EASCS 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Sewerage (35%);Roads and highways (25%);Other social services (25%);Solid 
waste management (10%);Water supply (5%) 
Theme:  Municipal governance and institution building (25%);Pollution management and 
environmental health (25%);Access to urban services and housing (24%);Infrastructure 
services for private sector development (13%);Other urban development (13%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
133.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
201.32
201.32 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Zhejiang Urban Environment Project (ZUEP) is to enhance the 
efficiency and equity of waste management in Ningbo and Hangzhou municipalities and 
the redevelopment of the historic inner city in Shaoxing and Cicheng, and thereby 
facilitating the sustainable development of these cities and establishing a model for 
conservation of cultural heritage in other Chinese cities.  
 
The project will support measures to increase the utilization of waste treatment 
facilities, increase sewerage services in underserved areas including the fast-growing 
suburban areas and satellite towns in Ningbo; and to improve waste management 
institutions and finances through implementation of utility reform measures.  
 
Redevelopment of the historic inner-city and conservation of build heritage in Shaoxing 
and Cicheng is a top priority of the municipal governments and the project will contribute 
to improving the quality of life of their citizens, sustain their cultural and historic nature 
Page  2
through tourism development, upgrade their housing stock and safeguard environmental 
conditions.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project in the three municipalities of Ningbo, Shaoxing and Hangzhou consists of a 
mixture of environmental infrastructure services, urban redevelopment and cultural 
heritage conservation components, along with associated technical assistance.  
 
Original Project Components:  
 
(a) 
South Jiangdong Sewerage and Treatment Plant  
 
(b) 
Zhenhai Sewerage and Treatment Plant  
 
(c) Cicheng 
Infrastructure 
Development 
 
 
(d) Dongqian 
Lake 
Development 
 
 
(e) 
Shaoxing Historic City-Center  
 
(f) 
Hangzhou Landfill Expansion  
 
(g) 
Services, Training and Implementation Support  
 
In light of loan savings occurring during project implementation, the following two 
components were added to the project. Both support the original project development 
objective:  
 
(h) 
Shaoxing: Yue Kingdom Historical Area Preservation/Rehabilitation  
 
(i) 
Ningbo: Jiangnan Wastewater Treatment Plant and associated sewers  
 
The ISDS is being updated to reflect the addition of the two new project sub-
components.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Zhejiang Province (population 39 M) is one of the most important of the eastern coastal 
provinces in China. It is an integral component of the Yangtze Economic Zone and has a 
strong industrial sector and prosperous agricultural base.  
 
Hangzhou (urban population 3.7 M) is the provincial capital and has an important 
geographical location on the N bank of the Qiantang River at the apex of Hangzhou Bay. 
The city is a major tourist destination, a major attraction being the famous West Lake. 
Waste generation in the city is increasing rapidly, in part due to improvements in 
collection, and there is an urgent need for new disposal facilities as the existing landfill is 
nearing completion. The project proposal is to extend the existing well operated landfill, 
located in a small valley some 18 km N of the urban center; this option was selected in 
preference to 8 potential new landfill sites elsewhere on grounds of lower incremental 
environmental impact.  
 
Ningbo (urban population 1.26 M) is an important port and industrial center located at 
the estuary of the Yongjiang River. The urban center of Ningbo and the outlying 
township of Cicheng are traversed by a number of small rivers, which currently receive 
large wastewater discharges. Dongqian Lake is located about 15 km from the Ningbo 
Page  3
urban center and is the only major scenic area for Ningbo. There are proposals to expand 
tourism in the lake area, but the lake is also an important water source for urban supply 
and agriculture. Existing and potential further pollution threatens these beneficial uses.  
 
Shaoxing (urban population 0.5M) is in the NE of Zhejiang and is one of the key cities 
in the Changjiang River delta. The city has a long history and has been the regional 
political, economic and cultural center since ancient times. Much historical and cultural 
heritage and many historical street areas are still well preserved, and the old city has a 
network of canals fed from the moat that surrounds the city. Areas adjacent to these 
canals in the historic areas of the city house in the order of 30 000 people, but urban 
services are poor and properties lack basic water, sanitation and energy supply facilities.  
 
The project would directly benefit about one million people through improved water 
supply, wastewater and solid waste collection and disposal, energy supply services, 
housing in the historic city centers, roads and transportation, flood control, and 
recreational facilities. A small number of people will be directly affected by the project 
because of resettlement and enterprise relocation from crowded inner-city locations and 
displacement by construction activities.  
 
The project components in Shaoxing and Cicheng are located within culturally sensitive 
areas but issues are adequately dealt with because of the heritage conservation approach 
with these components. Dongqian Lake project component is located within an 
environmentally sensitive area.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Songling Yao (EASCS) 
Mr Feng Ji (EASCS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  4
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Existing Project Components. The environmental impact of the project is expected to be 
on balance substantially positive in terms of improved water quality in the rivers and 
canals in the urban areas of Ningbo (and surrounding towns) and Shaoxing and of 
improved and sustainable wastes management in Hangzhou. There are, however, some 
significant impacts in Ningbo/Shaoxing and in Hangzhou.  
 
The quantities of sludge requiring disposal will continue to increase as a consequence of 
population growth, increases in the wastewater treatment rates in Ningbo and the 
potential future further centralization of wastewater treatment.  Accordingly and in light 
of the limited space of sanitary landfills, Ningbo Municipal Government approved in 
October 2008 the Ningbo Municipality WWTP Sludge Treatment Master Plan which 
called for incineration of all WWTP sludge at thermal power plants in the city by tapping 
surplus heat in thermal power plants to dry dewatered sludge before incineration.  In 
accordance with this Master Plan, South Jiangdong WWTP and Zhenhai WWTP began to 
send their dewatered sludge to thermal power companies approved by local EPB for 
incineration.  An assessment is ongoing to confirm that the sludge is disposed of in an 
environmentally sound manner.  
 
In the case of the Tianziling landfill in Hangzhou, although the facility will meet 
international standards of sanitary landfill, there will be the inevitable potential impacts 
of leachate and landfill gas generation. Each will occur throughout the lifetime of the site 
and in the case of gas generation for a considerable period thereafter. The potential 
impact of leachate in terms of groundwater contamination will be mitigated by means of 
a
comprehensive site liner and collection and treatment of leachate. The impact of gas 
generation will be mitigated by forced extraction of gas with beneficial use of the gas for 
power generation.  
 
Rates of waste generation in Hangzhou, and therefore potential deposition at the 
Tianziling landfill site, will increase due to population growth and increases in the wastes 
collection service area. Such an increase would reduce the operating lifetime of the site, 
but at the same time there are proposals to increase the current low recycling rates for 
waste stream components, which will have the effect of increasing the site life. An 
increase in waste deposition rates may increase gas generation rates, but the overall 
period of gas generation at the site should be largely unaltered in view of the fixed 
capacity of the site.  
 
Compliance with the Environmental Management Plans, Resettlement Action Plans, and 
Resettlement Policy Framework will be monitored by independent institutions that will 
be hired under the project management. Compliance during project implementation has 
been satisfactory throughout.  
 
Page  5
The participatory approach for the resettlement aspects of the project, particularly those 
associated with inner-city redevelopment will be dealt with in RAP, following closely the 
China and Bank procedures and guidelines. Tourism development by its nature requires 
consultation and participation of the local communities, businesses and civil society 
institutions at large. The development of the tourism strategies in Shaoxing and Ningbo 
and the preparation of tourist master plans will be carried in a participatory approach.  
 
New Project Components. As mentioned above, there are two newly added components:  
Yue Kingdom Historical Area preservation and Jiangnan WWTP.  The Yue Kingdom 
Historical Area Preservation includes: (1) protection of cultural heritages and 
improvement of infrastructure/ landscaping in Fushan Park; (2) rehabilitation of 
traditional residential areas; (3) tourism friendly infrastructure e.g. pedestrian roads, 
central square, parking facilities, greening and landscaping; (4) rehabilitation of business 
streets. The adverse impact is insignificant, site-specific, and can be readily managed 
through common good practice. These components are consistent with the PDOs of the 
project.  The EA has been disclosed locally (September 21, 2006) and the English 
summaries at the Infoshop (January 1, 2007).  
 
A
RAP for Yue Kingdom has been prepared and was disclosed locally (February 6, 
2007) and at the InfoShop (July 10, 2007). The influence of the project is principally in 
form of house demolition in Yuecheng district, with 258 households (831 persons), five 
enterprises and businesses and seven public entities. Houses will be mostly restored by 
submission of replaced houses with full consultation and participation involving the 
affected households. The affected enterprises/businesses will be rehabilitated in new 
places with full compensation according to agreed compensation rates. The public entities 
are to be restored by their upper authorities, with cash compensation. The total budget is 
estimated RMB 220 million (equivalent to USD 32 million) which will be fully financed 
by the city government together with local commercial loan.  
 
The Jiangnan WWTP is located in Beilun District, Ningbo, with a service area of 
approximately 230km2.  The new WWTP includes installation of a 160,000 m3/d A2O 
activated sludge wastewater treatment plant, 0.3 km DN2700 inlet sewer and an inlet 
pumping station, 1.6 km DN2600 outlet pipeline and an outlet pumping station, a 
reclamation water supply facility, and deodorization facilities.  The WWTP is proposed 
to be funded with the Bank#s loans saving, while the supply and installation of 19.4 km 
of trunk sewer (DN1000#DN2400), 170km of secondary sewers and 9 pumping stations 
are proposed to be funded by Ningbo using their own funds.The environmental impact of 
the subproject is on balance substantially positive and the benefits outweigh the negative 
impacts. The EA has been disclosed locally (April 3, 2009) and the English Summary at 
the Bank Infoshop (April 22, 2009).  
 
A
RAP for Jiangnan WWTP was also prepared and disclosed locally (August 2, 2008).  
and submitted to the Bank InfoShop (August 13, 2008). The project will result in the 
permanent acquisition of 404 mu of land and relocation of 35 households with 108 
persons. Resettlement management system remains the same as the existing project, 
including for project monitoring.   
Page  6
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The implementation arrangements at the Provincial level are the PPMO, under the 
Provincial Construction Bureau. PPMO is responsible for project implementation under 
assistance of three municipal PMOs(Hangzhou, Ningbo, Shaoxin).  The PPMO and 
Municipal PMOs have satisfactorily been implementing the Zhejiang Urban Environment 
Project. The EIAs/EMPs and RPs/RPF were prepared and approved locally and by WB. 
Compliance with the Environmental Management Plans and the RPs has been monitored 
satisfactorily. The PPMO's and PMOs' capacity for safeguards compliance during project 
implementation is deemed adequate.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Extensive consultation with affected people, local governments, enterprise owners was 
conducted in the preparation and implementation of the RP which was already disclosed 
locally. The participatory approach for the resettlement aspects of the project, particularly 
those associated with inner-city redevelopment was addressed in RAP, following closely 
the China and Bank procedures and guidelines. Tourism development by its nature 
require consultation and participation of the local communities, businesses and civil 
society institutions at large. The development of the tourism strategies in Shaoxing and 
Ningbo and the preparation of tourist master plans will be carried in a participatory 
approach.  
 
For the newly added components, (1) Yue Kingdom Historical Area 
Preservation/Rehabilitation. Public consultation was conducted during EA preparation in 
January-March, April-June and in October 2006 through field visit, interview and 
questionnaire survey. Totally 16 units (local government and enterprises) and 50 public 
people were involved in the consultation. The EIA report has been locally disclosed on 
September 21, 2006. (2) Jiangnan WWTP. Two rounds of public consultation were 
conducted during EA preparation in early 2008 through field visit, interview, 
questionnaires survey and workshop. Totally 16 entities and 100 public people were 
involved in the first round and 31 people from villages, governments, enterprises, and 
design institutes etc. in the second round. The EIA report was locally disclosed on April 
3, 2009.   
 
Page  7
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/20/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/03/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/22/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/20/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/03/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/22/2009 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Page  8
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Axel E. N. Baeumler 
11/30/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Feng Ji 
11/26/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Songling Yao 
11/26/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Panneer Selvam Lakshminarayanan 
12/10/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez 
12/18/2009 
Comments:   
