Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22071
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27320; TF-20101)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.1 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
06/08/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2001)
Currency Unit = LEK
LEKI = US$ 0.00689
US$ 1 = LEK 145.1
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, March 1995)
LEKI = USS0.01084
US51 = LEK92.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACE                 -      Albanian Association of Consulting Engineers
AADT                 -      Annual Average Daily Traffic
CAS                  -      Country Assistance Strategy
CCAI                 -      Construction Companies Association of Consulting Engineers
DBST                 -      double bituminous surface treatment
DRD                  -      District Road Directorate
ERR                  -      economic rate of return
EU                   -      European Union
FYR                  -      first year rate of return
G                    -      gravel
GDP                  -      gross domestic product
GNP                  -      gross national product
GoA                  -      Govenunent of Albania
Gol                  -      Government of Italy
GRD                  -      General Roads Directorate
HDM                  -      Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
ICB                  -      international competitive bidding
IDA                  -      International Development Association
IFIs                 -      International Financing Institutions
IMF                  -      International Monetary Fund
IRI                  -      international roughness index
m-m                  -      man-month
MoC                  -      Ministry of Construction
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan Poortman, ECC04
Sector Manager/Director:    Eva Molnar/Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Cesar Queiroz/Olivier Le Ber, ECS[N



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MoF                  -       Ministry of Finance
MoLG                 -       Ministry of Local Government
MPW                  -       Ministry of Public Works (current)
MPWT                 -       Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MoT                  -       Ministry of Transport (current)
MTC                  -       Ministry of Transport and Construction
N.B.F.               -       non Bank/IDA financed
NCB                   -      national competitive bidding
NPV                          net present value
O&M study             -      Organization and Management study
PIU                   -      Project Implementation Unit
p-km                  -      passenger-km
PM                    -      penetration macadam
pp                    -      Pilot Phase
PPP                   -      Preliminary Pilot Phase
RRD                   -      Regional Road Directorate
SA                    -      Special Account
SDR                   -      Special Drawing Right
SOEs                  -      statements of expenditure
TA                    -      technical assistance
t-km                  -      ton-km
TOR                   -      termns of reference
voc                   -      vehicle operating costs
vpd                   -      vehicles per day
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ALBANIA
Rural Roads Project Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7, Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                    30
Maps: IBRD 2623IR - IBRD 26232R - IBRD 26233R and IBRD 26234R



Project ID: P008267                                       Project Name: Rural Roads
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 8, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Rural Roads                                     L/C/TFNNumber: IDA-27320; TF-20101
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/24/1993                               Effective:  10/12/1995        11/08/1995
Appraisal:  06/20/1994                                MTR:
Approval:  05/25/1995                               Closing: 06/30/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/MIN. OF TRANSPORT
Other Partners:  Government of Italy (Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Assistance)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Christiaan Poortman                        Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar                                 Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:   Cesar Queiroz - Olivier Le Ber            Luis Revuelta
ICR Primary Author:   Luis Revuelta
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Stistainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borroiver Peirormance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were: (:i) to promote agricultural development by rehabilitating
and maintaining rural roads serving agricultural areas and to improve access to economic and social
services for rural population centers; (ii) to establish the institutional and financial arrangements for
administering and maintaining rural roads on a sustainable basis; (iii) to reduce poverty and increase



employment by carrying out project works with labor intensive methods; and (iv) to encourage the
development of the domestic contracting and consulting industries.
The project focused on three topics: (i) policy and institutions, including the development and
implementation of policies covering adequate reconstruction and maintenance of high priority rural roads
and bridges, planning and project evaluation techniques, and competitive bidding procedures for carrying
out work; (ii) investment in reconstruction/rehabilitation of priority road sections, bridge reconstruction
and repair, technical assistance, studies and training of rural roads staff following the establishment of two
consecutive pilot phases; and (iii) alleviation of poverty and increase of employment. The project would
serve an agricultural area of 150,000 ha with a population of 425,000 people (19 percent of the Albanian
rural population). It would generate 12,000 man-years of work jobs over three years in 20 districts
containing 60 percent (about 168,000 people) of the nation's unemployment and would create 500
permanent jobs for the maintenance of its assets. Consequently, the project was rated "Poverty Category:
Program of Targeted Intervention" in accordance with the provisions of O.D. 4.15.
The objectives of the project were clear and realistic: to achieve a faster, safer, and less expensive
transportation of people and goods (mainly agricultural inputs and outputs). For the road sector, the
objectives were to establish and sustain the privatization of the domestic construction and consulting
industries through the provision of the required investments, and the introduction of a systematic
competitive bidding process and of a modem management system. Poverty would be alleviated by applying
economically feasible labor intensive methods, with minimal use of equipment, which would generate a
significant volume of employment for the poor fanilies of the project area. The project supported the
March 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives, as well as the July 1998 CAS objectives,
namely to improve infrastructure through private sector development and participation, to alleviate poverty
mainly through creation of employment, and to develop local govemance.
There were significant project risks due to the politically and economically weak situation of
Albania. These raised concems about provision of sufficient counterpart funds and continued commitment
to institutional reforms to administer and maintain the roads. However, the risks were clarified and
discussed and mitigation measures were agreed to during negotiations and monitored during
implementation. A significant risk was the managerial complexity of the labor intensive work which was
being applied for the first time in Albania; however this risk was minimized through the employment of
consultants experienced in labor intensive works. There were two events which could not have been
anticipated at the time of appraisal which affected implementation: the spread of civil unrest in Albania
following the failure of the pyramid schemes in 1997 and the Kosovo war in 1999.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The main thrust of the 1996-1998 National Roads Development Program, which was the basis of
the project, was to selectively rehabilitate and improve the rural road network, and to establish a
satisfactory and well budgeted road maintenance management system. The Rural (Feeder) Roads Study
(Final Report of July 1994, and Supplementary Report of December 1994, financed by the Swiss
Government with IDA as Executing Agency) identified a three-year (1996-1998) time slice, 44 months
including eight months for preparation and mobilization of subprojects. All subprojects, subject to
confirmation and possible amendment before implementation took place, met the agreed selection criteria of
- 2 -



economic feasibility, improvement of agriculture, and alleviation of poverty through the creation of labor
intensive employment.
The project components were:
(i)   improvement of around 975 km of rural roads by contractors using labor intensive methods
(US$24.40 million, and US$29.51 million, respectively without and with contingencies);
(ii)   provision of office and transport equipment (USSO.85 m, and USS 1.03 m);
(iii)   operational costs (US$0.33 m, and US$0.40 m);
(iv)   works supervision by an intemational teamn of consulting engineers (US$1.00 m, and US$1.21 m);
(v)   technical assistance (US$0.30 m, and US $0.36 m), Project Coordinator (USSO.40 m, and
US$0.49 m), and training (US$0.20 m, and US$0.24 m) to implement the project; and
(vi)  an Organization and Management (O&M) study (US$0.30 m, and US$0.36 m), including the
(first) inventory of the estimated 10,000 km rural road network, and definition, assessment, and
formulation of the best institutional, managerial, and financial arrangements for its administration.
The total project cost was US$33.6 million equivalent. It was to be financed by IDA through a
credit of US$15.0 million (SDR1O.1 million equivalent) or 44.5% of the project estimated cost, and by the
Government of Italy (Gol) through an untied loan of Lira24.8 billion (US$15.0 million equivalent) or
44.5% of the project cost. The Government of Albania (GoA) would contribute, exclusively in local costs,
with US$3.6 million equivalent or 11% of the project cost, equivalent to a US$1.2 million annual amount,
the maximum affordable under the national budget economic conditions. After approval of the SDRIO.1
million IDA credit, the project tearn discussed with the Gol the change of the proposed untied loan into a
grant (Grant TF020101-ALB). The Gol agreed to the change (Agreements dated July 13, 1996 with
Albania, and September 19, 1996 with IDA) and to the administration and management of the grant by
IDA. The Lira24.8 billion were deposited in the IDA's cash account with the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York on December 13, 1996 for an equivalent of US$16.2 million (US$15.9 million after deducting a 2%
management fee) reflecting the current re-evaluation of the Lira. Therefore, the original estimated joint
financing of the project was US$(15.0 + 15.9 + 3.6) million = US$34.5 million equivalent. However, the
actual financing, according to the credit and grant agreements would include SDR1O. 1 million from IDA,
USS15.9 million from Gol, and 10% of the cost of the road works from GoA, eventually resulting in an
actual financing of US$31.97 million (Annex 2).
The design of the project was properly related to achieving its objectives and it was well suited to
the administrative and financial capacity of the implementing agency, the General Roads Directorate
(GRD) and its District Roads Directorates (DRD). Project components were selected by the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MPWT) with the advice and contribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Ministry of Labor, and the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG).
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
Only a few implementation changes took place after considering the options of what would best
suit road conditions to actual traffic. In July 1998, following a recommendation by the international
supervision consultants and in agreement with IDA, GRD decided to replace most of Penetration Macadam
(PM) with a more adaptable Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) solution. PM was used only
when necessary due to technical reasons or availability of materials. Due to increased costs, the originally
estimated 975 km were reduced to about 690 km located in thirteen of the original agricultural districts.
- 3 -



The cost increased due to the depreciation of the SDR and local inflation resulting from civil unrest (see
5.1 ii). There were also some changes in the amount of financing of each component, particularly
supervision of civil works (see 4.2iv) and project coordinator (see 4.2v). The estimated amount of
financing of the components changed to:
Civil Works-Rural Roads (690 km): US$27,070,000;
Equipment, Vehicles, Spare Parts: US$530,000;
Operational Cost: US$160,000;
Supervision of Civil Works: US$2,600,000;
TA, Project Coordinator, Training: US$1,350,000; and
Organization and Management Study: US$260,000, or a total project cost of US$31.97 million.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The objectives were consistent with the objectives of the CAS and Government
priorities. The quality of the designs was appropriate for a country emerging from a fully centrally planned
economy and consistent with the geometric and technical norms of rural westem European roads. The
preparation took into account IDA's safeguard policies with special emphasis on alleviation of poverty and
better access to social services. The economic analysis was done in a competent and conservative way. The
risks, except for the civil unrest in Albania and the war in Kosovo which could not be anticipated, were
appropriately assessed and addressed. The final results are consistent with those forecast at appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is satisfactory. The objectives of the project were achieved. The
qualifications that follow should be seen against the perspective that Albania was one of the most isolated
-- economically, politically, socially, and culturally -- countries in the world, with a centralized system of
government and management, and rudimentary institutions, and that this was IDA's first Rural Roads
Project in the country.
(i)    Promotion of agricultural development was achieved, directly, through the 690 km  of
reconstructed roads which provide year round access to all project areas (see 4.2i) and to the main road
network, which improved market access for agricultural products. The project also improved access to
social services (markets, schools, dispensaries, hospitals, which without a satisfactory rural road network
would not be accessible year round), and facilitated the delivery of water (alleviating the burden on the
approximately 30% of the rural population of women and children who usually are responsible for
providing water when it is not available in the village), and the delivery of gas, mitigating the chronic
deforestation taking place in Albania.
(ii)    Establishment of the institutional and financial arrangements for administering and
maintaining the rural road network was defined through the TA, training and a study provided under
the project. The O&M study identified and recommended the best budgetary and institutional (local
governance) framework for the management and administration of the rural road network to be approved
by GoA. The O&M study prepared the first inventory of the Albanian rural roads. They include 4,126
km directly serving 1.7 million rural population; and 7,653 km of specific agricultural/irrigation,
forest/pasture, mining, and military roads. The study also formulated, and the government approved (see
4.5ii), the future role of the 4,126-km rural road network. In mid-2000, the management, budgeting (50%
- 4 -



of the estimated US$3.5 million equivalent per year), and administration of the 4,126-km rural road
network were transferred to the MoLG, and the 7,653 km of specific-function rural road networks to their
respective ministries (see para 4.5ii).
(iii)   Reduction of poverty and increase of employment were mainly achieved through the jobs
created by the application of labor intense methods in the construction of the road works. The supervision
of the road works also led to the creation of skilled jobs in the local consulting and construction industries.
The USS27.07 million investment in road works (Annex 2) generated about 8,600 job-years during the
4-year (1997-2000) implementation period at an average salary per person of US$4.4 per day (US$1,200
per job-year). This represents an investment in unskilled labor and a net transfer to the poor of about
US$10.32 million or 38.1% (against 44% estimated at appraisal), of the total investment in road works,
and it favorably compares with the usual 15% to 20% ratio in conventional works. It implies an important
alleviation of poverty among the project population (300,000 people or 60,000 families with an agricultural
area of 100,000 ha connected by the 690 km built instead of those considered at appraisal, see 3.1) where
30% or 18,000 families were surviving with incomes lower than US$2/day or were unemployed. An
important conclusion is that labor-intensive contracts, with their subsequent alleviation of poverty, compare
very favorably with conventional road works contracts, and they should be used in areas of high
unemployment and low salaries (say less than US$5.0 per day). The supervision of works also generated
about 200 skilled job-years, with an average annual salary of US$2,000, in the domestic consulting
industry.
(iv)    Development of the domestic contracting and consulting industries was achieved through the
road works, and through the TA and training. The project implementation and related supervision permitted
the establishment, on a financially sustainable basis, of a private domestic contracting and consulting
industry, frequently managed by former state officials, who, mostly, had been involved and employed in
road construction (by the former state-owned road and bridge construction companies) and planning (by the
former state-owned transport institutes). The TA and training on matters relating to management and
administration of firms, preparation of public bids, and requirement of competitive bidding for every tender
facilitated private sector development of the domestic contracting and consulting industries and led to their
successful operation in accordance with modem financial, procurement, and management procedures.
Furthermore, the TA and training, mainly through the implementation of the Preliminary Pilot Phase and
the Pilot Phase, ensured free competition by the domestic contractors during the entire implementation of
the project. The introduction of competitive bidding is now regularly applied to domestic bidding and
improved the competitiveness of the road works. The independent "Engineer" for the supervision of works
representing the administration, and the domestic consultants for supervision were established under the
leadership of international supervision consultants who provided valuable training on execution and
supervision of works to the DRD's staff and to the domestic consultants and contractors. Several
contractors and consulting firms which became established during the project have been awarded contracts
under the subsequent Emergency Road Repair project, Credit 3303-ALB.
A direct consequence of the above achievements was the establishment of the Association of
Albanian Contractors (Construction Companies Association for Infrastructure - CCAI) and of Albanian
Consultants (Albanian Association of Consulting Engineers - AACE). The establishment of both
associations was promoted through the project as an institutional instrument to legally protect and defend
the companies, and as an important way to institutionalize their collaboration. The CCAI presently includes
sixteen members, and the AACE seven members. Both associations have maintained contact with other
similar European associations and become familiar with their decisions. They will also keep their members
informed of road sector related decisions taking place in the European Union (EU). The AACE often acted
- 5 -



as the interlocutor with the government to achieve timely payment of works certificates.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(i)    Improvement of about 690 km of rural roads by contractors using labor intensive methods
(US$27.07 million).
The physical investments consisted of 52 road works contracts (690 km) spread over thirteen
districts (Map IBRD 2631R) and three agricultural regions: the Adriatic coastal plane north (Tirane, Kruje,
Lac, Lezhe, and Shkoder districts; Map IBRD 26232R) and south (Durres, Kavaje, Lushnje, Fier and
Vlore districts; Map IBRD 26233R) the city port of Durres, and the southeastern region around the main
city of Korce (Korce, Pogradec, and Devoll districts; Map IBRD 26234R).
This component was implemented as follows: (a) Preliminary Pilot Phase (PPP). Its eight
contracts (88.2 km; Lek 376.2 million or US$3.25 million equivalent cost) were awarded in March 1966,
and completed in mid-1997. PPP was the first experience in road construction with private domestic
contractors in Albania; (b) Pilot Phase (PP). It consisted of 13 contracts (219.3 kim; Lekl,005.3 million or
US$7.2 million) started in November 1997, and was completed in end-1998; (c) Phase I (P 1). It included
23 contracts (351.1 km; Lek2,085.7 million or US$15.16 million) started in mid-1998, completed in
mid-2000, after the June 30, 1999 original credit closing date. Under this Phase, the supply of bitumen of
good quality by Alb-Petrol became problematic and caused delay in the asphalting of several roads; and (d)
Phase 1I (P II), the final construction phase. It includes eight contracts (32 km; Lek190.6 million or
US$1.46 million) awarded in May 8, 2000, and completed by the extended credit closing date of December
31, 2000.
All civil works contracts were procured under national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures
(with pre-qualification of contractors for contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000), and most
contracts were executed applying labor intensive methods. About 10% of the contracts were executed, with
GRD approval, with conventional equipment on the basis that they could absorb a verified 5% to 10%
increase in unit costs in exchange for faster execution, possible access to more bids, and compliance with
tight completion schedules. Annex 3 includes a list of the 52 implemented contracts. The type and location
of the rural road contracts are shown in Maps IBRD 263 1R, 2632R, 2633R, and 2634R.
(ii)    Provision of office and transport equipment (US$0.53 mflion).
A project involving such dispersed construction sites requires adequate transport facilities and first
class office equipment for project management and monitoring. The DRDs and parts of the GRD, in
particularly the PIU office, received computers and other equipment to allow proper accounting and
monitoring of construction activities, and the simultaneous start-up of a rural road data bank for
maintenance. They also received pick-up trucks and motorbikes for supervision and maintenance of works.
The international and domestic consultants received the equipment and vehicles, mainly cars and
motorbikes, required for construction supervision, and basic drafting, surveying, and measurement
equipment for construction design and supervision. All the project offices were equipped with basic
furniture and communication facilities.
(iii)   Operational cost (US$0.16 million).
The very restricted road sector budget in Albania required a contribution from the Credit to fund
some of the project operational costs, namely: (i) incremental expenses of the PIU office (directly under
- 6 -



the GRD Director General, and comprising a chief civil engineer, an economist, and an accountant, an
expatriate Coordinator mainly responsible for procurement, and a bilingual secretary and a driver as
support staff); and (ii) all the DRD's expenses in addition to the normal operating costs, international
communications, office supplies related to the office equipment provided, and the operational expenses of
supervision vehicles and motorbikes.
The PIU during the first two years of project implementation comprised civil servants directly
assigned and paid by the administration. Their salaries were low, and the decision-making process slow,
with frequent interference from officials outside the project. The project proposed, and the GoA agreed to
the appointment of an independent PIU on a contractual basis to implement the project. The GRD Director
General appointed a chief engineer as PIU Director, who subsequently hired the other PIU members, all to
be paid according to local market conditions financed under the project. The decision proved particularly
beneficial since the project experienced a significant and regular improvement in procurement and
management following the reorganization of the PIU (see 8.i).
(iv)   Supervision of works by an international team of consulting engineers (US$2.60 million).
The project was based on the employment of inexperienced domestic contractors and consultants.
GRD and its DRD staff also lacked experience in labor intensive construction methods. Consequently, the
project hired an experienced consulting firm with international experience in design and supervision of
works, including works executed under labor intensive methods. The team included a Resident Team
Leader (25 man-month; m-m) and a Chief Resident Engineer (38 m-m). Their main tasks were to define
contract packages, review pre-qualification and bidding documents, supervise the supervision teams of
domestic consultants being ultimately responsible for the quality of the supervision, and provide on-site
advice and training to the domestic contractors and consultants, and to GRD and D}RD staff. On the
selection of international consultants, IDA's suggestion of extending the contract of the Consultant firm
who successfully prepared the design of the project was not accepted by GRD. The result was a delay of
about six months in the execution of the PPP because of the time required by the consultants to get
acquainted with the very specific circumstances under which the project would evolve in Albania. It is
therefore recommended to select consultants for supervision who have already acquired knowledge of the
project and the operating environment through successfully designating and preparing the project. The cost
increase in supervision (Annex 2), compared to that estimated at appraisal, resulted from the 18-month
project implementation extension - from June 1999 through December 2000 - due to the work stoppage
during the civil unrest period (see 5.1i), and also from the delay on starting the PPP, the change of the
intemational consulting firm after contract expiration (June 1999), and the higher salaries than estimated of
the domestic consulting teams.
(v)    Technical assistance (TA), project coordinator, and training (US$1.35 million).
TA and training were provided to the Employer (GRD and DRDs 50 trainees), and to the
domestic contractors and consultants (25 trainees). The supervision team of international consultants, with
some visiting consultants, provided additional training as defined in its TOR, namely to: (a) GRD on
project management, including development of the necessary planning, monitoring, and management tools;
(b) DRDs on management and accounting of contracts, and on designing and implementing a maintenance
concept; (c) domestic contractors, on methods of in situ organization, management of labor and equipment,
measurement and billing; and (d) domestic consultants, on supervision, contract management, and company
management (administration, cost estimation and control, and quality assurance).
- 7 -



The following specific courses took place for: (a) GRD, on the management of FIDIC contracts,
and on the use of computer facilities, followed by study tours; (b) DRDs, on the management of FIDIC
contracts, road maintenance management, accounting, and use of computer facilities; (c) domestic
contractors, on bidding documentation and procedures, use of labor-intensive construction methods,
measurement and billing in contracts, and equipment management; and (d) domestic consultants, on
supervision of contracts, and on the best way to build up and manage consulting firms. Total manpower
spent was 13 m-m plus 16 m-m of external trainers. Sometimes the best trainees left GRD and/or DRDs,
although they always remained in Albania, thus benefiting the country.
The Project Coordinator acted from the start till the end (originally, 44 months) of the project, as
a fourth (only non-Albanian) member of the PIU (see 4.2iii). His functions were coordination of the project
components and liaison with the Government, IDA, consultants, GRD, and DRDs. He was directly
responsible for the finalization of the pre-qualification and tendering processes, for preparing overall
project accounts, for monitoring progress, quality and financial performance, and for quarterly reporting to
the Governments of Albania and Italy, and to IDA. The cost of the Project Coordinator (Annex 2)
increased significantly because of the above-mentioned 18-month extension (see 4.2iv) of the project
implementation period. During the implementation of the project, there were three project coordinators: the
first one, a competent professional, had to leave Albania because of health problems, and the second one
had to be replaced because of unsatisfactory performance. The third one joined the project in 1999 and
contributed satisfactorily to its implementation until the closing date of the credit (December 31, 2000).
(vi)   An Organization and Management (O&M) study, including an inventory of the rural road
network, and an analysis and definition of the best institutional, managerial, and financial
arrangements for its administration (US$0.26 million).
GRD was responsible for administering, managing, and maintaining the project roads. The
purpose of the O&M study was to identify and to take inventory of the rural roads, and to analyze,
prepare, and recommend the best system for its administration, financing, and maintenance. The study (30
rn-rn), on the basis of its TOR, prepared the first inventory (road location, length, geometric characteristics,
and functional purpose) of the 11,779 km (see 4.1ii) of rural roads. It also reviewed the feasibility of
arrangements for managing these roads. The study recommended to put the rural road network (eventually
4,126 km) under the authority of the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) with direct responsibility
vested in the local authorities of the respective area (District Councils, and Communes), and estimated that
an annual US$3.5 to US$4.0 million equivalent budget would be required for maintaining these roads. This
proposal was analyzed and approved by the GoA with IDA support. Since mid-2000, the 4,126-km rural
road network is under MoLG's direct authority and responsibility of the local authorities (see 4.5ii) with
GRD and/or DRDs providing advice as required. The responsibility for the management and administration
of the remaining 7,653 km of rural roads providing transport for specific sectors (agriculture, forestry,
mining) was transferred to their respective ministries (see 4.5ii).
4.3 IAet Present Value/Economic rate oJ return:
Economic re-evaluation was done dividing the road works (52 contracts) into two groups: gravel
roads (324 km) and bituminous roads (367 km). At appraisal, the road reconstruction and
rehabilitation/strengthening works (975 kin) provided a weighted average economic rate of return (ERR) of
33%, well over the 12%-opportunity cost of capital in Albania. This ERR was conservative since it was
based on the savings from the vehicle operating costs resulting from IRI's (roughness) improvement,
reduction in transport time, and reduced need for future road maintenance. It excluded, because of the
- 8 -



difficulty of quantification, the increase of the agricultural production (an official 6.2 % nationwide in
1999, and a preliminary estimated 8% in year 2000, according to Bank sources), and all the social
improvements in education and health (better and faster access to schools, and health centers), in road
safety (less accidents), in trade (better access to rural markets), and in environment (no dusty village
crossings, better road drainage and less land erosion, easier transport of water and gas). After project
completion, the weighted  ERRs of the road works were calculated by the PIU, under the HDM-4
methodology on the basis of actual construction costs and of actual present (April 2001) traffic volumes
(which proved consistent with the 100% average traffic increase expected at appraisal). The weighted
average ERRs of 30.8% for the gravel road group, 38.3% for the bituminous group, and 34.8% for the
overall road works (Annex 3) are fully consistent with the overall weighted average ERR of 33% estimated
at appraisal. Due to the difficulty of their quantification, the appraisal and the economic re-evaluation did
not estimate other project benefits. However, these benefits are believed to be significant (see 4.1 iii).
4.4 Financial rate of retirn:
No financial rates of return were calculated during project preparation since none of the borrowing
institutions were revenue-producing entities. The appraisal examined the financial impact of GoA's project
contribution, US$1.2 million/year during a three-year period 1996-1998 or about 15% of GRD's 1996
annual budget, and found it acceptable. It also considered the future financial impact of repaying, per
semester, the SDR10.1 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) IDA credit with a 10-year grace period and a
40-year maturity, and found it relatively small (SDRO.25 million or USSO.37 million per year, less than
0.1% of 1996 public national budget).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact achieved through the project is relatively high.
(i)    New organization and administration of the rural road sub-sector.  The organization and
management of the rural road network has changed through the suggestions contained in the O&M study
financed under the project. Initially, during the centrally planned system, the state-owned Cooperatives and
Public Farms executed, very deficiently, any works related to the rural roads. Their intervention was
limited to opening a road when impassable, and the condition of the network was extremely deficient. After
the disappearance of the Cooperatives and Public Farms, the rural roads were totally abandoned, with no
agency responsible for them. GRD and its DRDs executed some works only on an emergency basis and
without any related budget. Presently, the works and operations are under the responsibility of, and
executed by the related local government entities under the authority of the MoLG (see 4.2.vi). Despite
this organizational improvement, the delivery of the whole budget is problematic, and maintenance is still
not satisfactory. Further improvement in road maintenance is the main objective to be achieved under the
Maintenance Project being prepared by IDA.
(ii)    Definition and separation of institutional responsibility.  The TA provided under the project
contributed to the reorganization and separation of the Ministry of Transport and Construction into a
Ministry of Transport (MoT) and a Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Presently, the MoT is in charge of
transport policy and regulation, and through its semi-autonomous agency GRD, is responsible for planning,
maintenance, and construction of the main road network (3,221 km). Since mid-2000, the rural road
network transport and infrastructure (4,126 km, see 4. 1ii), are the responsibility of the MoLG and the
municipalities. The municipalities/communes receive their budgetary allocation of funds from the MoLG
through the councils of the 12 new regional prefectures (Berat, Diber, Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Gjirokaster,
Korce, Kukes, Lezhe, Shkoder, Tirane, and Vlore, comprising the 36 national districts). Procurement is
-9-



carried out by the Maintenance Directorates of each prefecture/region under the MoLG and the Regional
Council. The present budgetary allocation (year 2001) for maintenance of the 4,126-km rural road network
is US$3.8 million equivalent which is in line with the recommendation under the O&M study which should
help address the maintenance issue (see 4.2vi).
(iii)   Privatization of construction and maintenance of the rural road network. Before the project,
every operation in the rural road sub-sector was carried out directly by force account by the responsible
institution. The results were poor. The establishment through the project of a competitive private domestic
contracting and consulting industry introduced in the country a better alternative to construction by
institutional force account.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors ouitside the control of governmient or implementing agency:
(i)    The collapse of the pyramid scheme in late 1996 triggered civil unrest, rioting, and a general state
of anarchy which the Govemment was unable to control. Several contract sites were attacked, and
installations and equipment were damaged. TA personnel left the country for about four months because of
security reasons. The collapse of the pyramid scheme also directly affected the financial situation of most
of the contractors who had heavily invested in it, as did a majority of the Albanian population. The result
was a work stoppage of six months and a subsequent partial hiatus of one year (18-month delay), which
together with the financial consequences of the pyramid scheme, and the non payment of damages to the
contractors because of lack of riot insurance, significantly affected the performance of the contracts in
1997 and 1998. The destabilizing effect of the Kosovo crisis also affected the project in 1999, as it affected
the whole country.
(ii)   The unfavorable exchange rate SDR/US$ led to a 12% reduction of IDA financing from US$15.0
million to US$ 13.89 million equivalent (which was only partially compensated by the favorable exchange
rate of the Italian grant, see 3.3), and the construction price increased (about 30%) due to the delicate
regional situation (inflation and civil unrest in Albania). The effect of both factors was a reduction in the
civil works component from 975 km (see 3.3i) originally scheduled to 690 km (see 4.2i) eventually built.
(iii)   Continuous changes in the government, made worse by the lack of a permanent civil service in
Albania, also produced delays, mainly in procurement. Whenever there was a change in personnel in key
government positions, procurement decisions had to wait for a new Minister or a new GRD Director
General to familiarize themselves with the project and IDA procedures.
5.2 Factors generally sutbject to government control:
(i)    The weakness of the domestic banking system was a hurdle to contract financing because it was
not able or willing to provide the contract guarantees for the advance payments to the contractors. During
the first two years, many of the contractors started work without receiving the advance payment allowed
under the project, a significant obstacle to a nascent industry in a weak financial position. The banks' rates
and collateral demands were so high that the domestic contractors could not afford to take the advance
payments. The situation improved during the third year, but the banks are still slow, inefficient, and too
demanding of personal guarantees instead of contract guarantees. The Albanian banking system is engaged
only minimally in domestic credit intermediation, and is mainly focused on foreign exchange transactions
and trade financing. Much of private sector investment is financed through the informal market (family,
friends, and self-finance).
- 10 -



(ii)    The bureaucratic payment procedures, mainly the decision by the government that all payments
to contractors will be processed through the National Bank of Albania -- the apparent justification being
efficient control of payments -- produced delays in payments to contractors of about two months.
Sometimes these delays were compounded because the provision of the counterpart payment (10 percent of
construction cost) through the Borrower budget was also delayed. Processing of payments through the
National Bank (besides the selected bank) should be avoided in the future.
5.3 Factors generall) subject to implenmenting agency control:
(i)    The selection of international supervision consultants took place following the IDA guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants dated August 1981. However, the selected consultants needed more than
six months to become acquainted and familiarized with the difficult situation of the country, and with the
complex nature of the project. GRD did not follow IDA task management advice (see 4.2iv), also strictly
based on above referenced IDA guidelines, and did not hire the supervision Consultants who had very
successfully and efficiently prepared the project, and who had spent nearly one year in situ and become
familiar with the country situation and with the project condition. This decision not to hire the supervision
consultants caused a six month delay on the commencement of the PPP, and therefore, of the project. The
domestic supervision consultants initially prepared poor quality designs and the implementing agency
followed a complicated and slow procedure to have the designs improved and approved, until the
responsibility was directly assigned to the PIU (see 4.2iii).
(ii)    The issue of expropriations required more attention. Although the project included few
expropriation cases, when an expropriation case appeared (acquisition of right-of-way, mainly because of
the external drainage line lying within a private property) it always took GRD considerably more time than
scheduled, particularly on the public consultations, on the contacts and approvals by the local authorities,
and on the payment to the affected persons. In the future, and in order to avoid construction delays, GRD
should solve this situation before bidding the contract.
(iii)   Shortcomings in the supply of bitumen caused several difficulties because there is only one
Albanian producer and supplier, AlbPetrol refinery, under the Ministry of Industry. The shortage, and
inappropriate quality of the bitumen was a cause of continuous concern and rejections, causing delays in
the satisfactory execution of works. Eventually through GRD pressure, the availability and quality
improved during implementation, but the risk was always present. In October 2000, when the project was
about 98 percent completed, the production of bitumen stopped due to the necessity of concentrating
production of the refinery on the much needed heating fuel oil for the winter, and only resumed at end 2000.
If GRD had been able to authorize the competitive acquisition of bitumen in the international market from
the beginning, a satisfactory alternative might have been found.
(iv)   Some contractors lacked experienced personnel to prepare construction programs matching their
financial resources with the contract schedules, and also had difficulties in understanding contract
conditions. Some of them fell behind with the submission of interim payment certificates. Although all
these problems were eventually satisfactorily resolved through the TA and training provided under the
project, the payment of interim certificates on time should have been resolved more speedily by GRD at the
start, instead of waiting nearly one year in some cases.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There were some changes in the unit costs compared with those at appraisal and consequently the
- 11 -



project financing scope changed from 975 km of roads to 690 kmn (see 4.2i). Changes of unit costs were
mainly due to inflation and economnic unrest in the country. The deterioration in the SDR/US$ exchange
rate reduced IDA SDR10.1 million financing from US$15 million equivalent originally, to about US$13.9
million equivalent at the end of the project (see 5. 1ii). Financing by the Borrower (counterpart funds) was
not always on time but because it only accounted for 10 percent of total cost for road works, the works
could proceed nevertheless. There were also delays in payments under the IDA credit and from the Italian
grant which was administered by IDA. These delays occurred mostly because of the government decision
to process all payments to contractors through the National Bank of Albania, the inexperience of the PIU
accountant managing the special account, and slow intemal procedures in GRD.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability ratinig:
Sustainability of the project is likely. This is because the project was highly instrumental in
introducing the private sector to carry out, in a competitive environment, the rehabilitation of part of the
rural road network. The private sector has started absorbing modem management concepts, and has
emerged as a provider of transport services, construction and maintenance of road works, and consulting.
Sustainability is also helped by the ongoing Emergency Road Repair Project, and by the Road Maintenance
Project, which is at an advanced stage of preparation. The Emergency Road Repair Project continues
providing business and employment opportunities to the newly established firms, and TA and training to
sector officials and to the private construction and consulting industries, and the Road Maintenance Project
will include an important rural roads component. The continued and ongoing cooperation of IDA and other
IFIs with the GoA is essential to ensure this sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangemnent to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has started successfully, but its completion will obviously take
some time. During the transition period, the road sector will have to absorb and assimilate the new
market oriented organizations, the incipient and still weak managerial skills and experience in a market
economy, and the use of new technologies and new systems of working, cooperation, and competition.
Rural roads are a substantial asset, and maintenance must be a high priority in order to preserve the
network at the level required by the economy. The administration and budgeting of the rural road network
by the local government, under the overall responsibility of the MoLG, and the ongoing and under
preparation IDA projects (see 4.5i and 6.1) are steps in the right direction for a satisfactory transition to
regular operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
IDA's performance in identifying, preparing, and appraising the project was satisfactory. The
composition of IDA missions was consistent and uniform (Annex 4), and the mission's documentation and
briefings to the GoA and Gol were appropriate, with the Gol further extending its participation with IDA
to other transport projects in Albania. The selected counterpart organization, GRD, was generally
competent and motivated to carry out the project. The project was consistent with the Bank's CAS, and the
GoA's policy for the transport sector was consistent with that of the Bank. The appraisal took place under
close cooperation and in consultation with the Borrower, and with the Gol. The Rural (Feeder) Roads
Study, financed by Switzerland through its Trust Fund at the Bank and with IDA as executing agency, was
- 12-



the first comprehensive study and record of the condition and main characteristics of the Albanian rural
road network. This well prepared study was the basis of the project. The components of the project fully
supported its objectives.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision was highly satisfactory. The supervision of the physical and institutional
components of the project met high professional standards. Skill-mix (Annex 4) and continuity of the
supervision teams were satisfactory. The few changes which occurred including the change in Team Leader
in early 1999, and occasional changes of local staff in the Resident Mission did not affect the quality of
supervision. The Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) carried out a Quality Supervision Assessment
(QSA) in 1998, and the supervision of the project received the highest qualification and an award for
excellence for the satisfactory development achieved under most adverse circumstances. There were
initially a few troublesome delays due to some procurement problems relative to the availability of only
preliminary designs for the first year of road works, and limited availability of funds (see 8. lb). It would
have been better to decide on these issues during appraisal even if it would have caused some delay. During
project implementation it became clear that, even in the case of low class roads, final designs of the first
year works should be available before bidding in order to avoid misunderstandings and delays. This fact,
combined with the innovative labor intensive methods being applied, the lack of experience of the new
domestic contractors, and the lack of familiarity of the intemational supervision consultants with the
country, led to a six-month delay in the launching of the PPP. The eventual eighteen-month delay in the
completion of the project (December 31, 2000 instead of June 30, 1999) resulted from the suspension of
works due to the collapse of the pyramid schemes, and from the delay of the supply of a good quality
bitumen by AlbPetrol. The cofmanciers, GoA and Gol, were duly briefed by every supervision mission.
IDA spent a total of 142 staff weeks in the supervision of the project (Annex 4). The number of formal
supervision missions, always including preparation and/or supervision of other projects in Albania, was 13
or about 3 missions per year.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
IDA performance was satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. IDA was client responsive in
making changes during project implementation to adjust to changing circumstances through timely
extensions, reallocation within and between components, and flexibility in the procurement requirements
when justified, mainly in the provision of advance payments. The concept of Key Performance Indicators
(Annex 1) used as a basis of comparison was developed after the appraisal of the project, and it was added
to the supervision process in late 1998. However, IDA should have insisted more than it did on requesting
(through GRD) a competitive intemational acquisition of bitumen, even if the civil works were procured
under NCB, in order to avoid (see 5.3iii) the problems of quality and delivery which took place.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The main ideas of financing the reconstruction of the dilapidated rural road network under labor
intensive methods came from an intense collaboration and consultation between the GoA and IDA during
the implementation of the Transport Project, Credit 2499-ALB. The GoA informed IDA of the deplorable
state of the rural road network with no authority responsible for it, and of its desire to put the network
under the responsibility of GRD, to reconstruct the network, and to generate jobs in the rural areas which
were plagued with a high level of unemployment and poverty. GoA also agreed on, and supported IDA's
successful request to the Swiss govemrnent to finance the preparation of the project through a Feeder
- 13 -



(Rural) Roads study. Unfortunately, GRD showed little interest in providing counterparts to the
international experts of the study team, and these counterparts had to be recruited among private Albanian
professionals. This caused a delay of about two months on the completion of the study and some cost
increase (about 10 percent).
7.5 Government implenmentation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was sometimes mixed, as showed in Section 5,
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome, and eventually, satisfactory. Undue interference
with and obstacles impeding the action of the PIU, before its authority and autonomy were clearly enforced
after the second year of project irnplementation (see 4.2iii), were cause of delays in procurement, and in the
day-to-day decision-making. The counterpart funds were insufficient and often delayed, particularly by
mid-end 1996 and during 1997 and 1998, when the pyramid schemes triggered political and
macro-economic instability, and civil unrest. The contractors have not yet been compensated for the
damages to the contract sites (see 5. 1i). The PIU played an important role in facilitating the collaboration
of the various ministries affected by the project.
7.6 Inqplementing Agency:
The implementing agency was the GRD under the MoT where the PIU Board took the decisions
and ran the day-to-day operation which were delegated, according to the Credit Agreement, to the PIU
established within GRD. Unfortunately, this delegation was insufficient. There were difficulties after GRD
was transferred to the MoT (see 4.5ii), because the PIU chairmanship rotated, and also because GRD was
late in getting the counterpart funds from the MoF. Delegation improved (see 4.2iii), and significantly
helped the implementation of the project, after the MoT and GRD agreed on more autonomy for the PIU
through newly hired private members (consultants) and on paying them market fees. GRD's advice to
purchase the bitumen required for the civil works directly from AlbPetrol, and not from the international
market through competition, created several delays in achieving the required quality of works.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, given that this was the first transport project in which: (i) for the first time a newly
established domestic contracting industry was involved; (ii) for the first time, a labor intensive method of
executing road works was applied in the country; (iii) the project evolved through a difficult political
(continuous changes of government authorities), social (civil unrest), and economic (the collapse of the
pyramid schemes) situation; and (iv) the project implementation succeeded and achieved every project
objective, Borrower performance is assessed to be satisfactory. The success of the project, despite the
difficult environment in which it was implemented, is a credit to the Borrower's performance.
8. Lessons Learned
There are several lessons that can be leamed from this project; some of them also observed in other projects
and confinned here.
(i)    Good projects are usually the result of adequate coordination of the work with good
counterparts.
(a) The volatility of the Albanian civil service (frequent changes in project officials, including PIU)
affecting the project day-to-day decision-making process was overcome by the selection and establishment
of an energetic and competent PIU after the second year of project implementation. The selected PIU
- 14 -



three members were domestic consultants, paid in accordance with local market rates, and acting with the
delegation and autonomy defined in the appraisal and credit agreement documents (see 4.2iii). This is a
lesson which is relevant and should be applied to every future project; and
(b) The Italian grant became effective 14 months (see I and 3.3) after effectiveness of the (joint
financing) IDA credit and start of project implementation. This implied a significant lag in the application
of a joint disbursement process. During this time, all contractual commitments and disbursements had to
be financed with the IDA credit, and implementation of the large contracts had to be delayed. This situation
was overcome in 1997, but regular joint disbursements from the start would have allowed to expedite the
implementation of the project. This is a lesson which should be applied in the future: joint financing and
joint disbursement should take place simultaneously from the start. On the other hand, the ability of the
project to achieve joint (instead of parallel; see 3.3) financing with Italy, permitted the application of a
common and highly successful set of management, procurement, and institutional policies and practices.
This resulted in an homogeneous institutional and physical synergy significantly more efficient than if both
financiers, Italy and IDA, would have worked in parallel with the possibility of applying different
institutional, managerial, and procurement schemes. Parallel financing cannot guarantee the synergetic
beneficial results, mainly institutional, of joint financing.
(ii)    Road administrations should keep in mind the following.
(a) Planning for the use of resources should be based on an economic analysis which justifies the
optimal choice for the improvement of road sections;
(b) Contracting on a competitive basis increases procurement transparency, decreases cost, and
improves efficiency and quality;
(c) Careful supervision, including timely payments, are essential to the success of the project, and
consequently the counterpart funds should be provided on time. Delays in payments (see 5.2i-ii, and 5.3iv)
decrease the financial capacity of the contractors, and therefore their capacity to successfully carry out
works; and
(d) Expropriations and final designs should be ready for bidding, well before starting the related
works, even in low class roads (see 5.3ii). Otherwise, the contractor would have to delay works, and would
experience losses. Furthermore, the contract cost would increase, and its economic and financial viability
might be jeopardized.
(iii)   Full development of agricultural areas depends on the existence of a good rural road network
and access to the main road network.
Efficient road transport is critical to rural agricultural development and commercialization, since
it provides a key input for diversification and expansion of agricultural production, communication
pattems, and rural mobility. The productivity in the project areas has improved according to agriculture
and traffic statistics (see 4.3), confirmed by frequent farmers' opinions. Social connections and rural
mobility have also improved as has the condition of the environment (see 4.3). However, a good rural road
network may not suffice to increase agricultural production when some important inputs (e.g., irrigation,
credit) are missed, which was not the case under the project.
(iv)    Domestic contractors and consultants benefit from IDA projects.
- 15-



The domestic contractors and consultants started their activities as private enterprises due to the
financial and training opportunities provided by the project (see 4.liv). Through TA and training, they
learned how to plan, manage, and administer contracts. Their execution of works also received continuous
advice and help through the project supervision activity. The amount of the project financing provided by
the GoA, Gol, and IDA guaranteed the required financial set up for the development of the nascent
contracting and consulting industries during the period 1996-2000. Sustainability of these industries (see
6.1) is being helped by NCB under the ongoing IDA-financed Emergency Road Repair Project.
(v)    Application of a labor intensive method has social and economic benefits in the creation of
employment and alleviation of poverty in Albania.
Application of a labor intensive method of construction under the project was a satisfactory way
of creating employment and of alleviating poverty (see 4.1 iii), because: (a) it was applied to contracts with
a high economic retum, that is, highly feasible investments, without increasing the cost per km compared
with conventional labor/equipment methods; (b) it implied an important added value which distinguished
itself from other methods of poverty alleviation as cash handouts or free provision of food; (c) it addressed
the poor directly, because it was applied to poor areas where a high number of farnilies were unemployed
and/or surviving under the US$2/day level of poverty, creating 8,600 unskilled job-years; and (d) it also
improved non income producing -- but very beneficial to the alleviation of poverty -- services with
improved access to education, health, and commercial facilities. About 38.1 percent of the project road
works investment was spent on salaries, against the usual 15 to 20 percent in conventionally equipped
road works. Therefore, labor intensive methods may be the best option for rural road works where their
cost versus the conventional methods, an estimated US$5/day salary benchmark (ceiling) in the case of
Albania (see lO.ii), remains competitive. The salaries in Albania are currently reaching this ceiling.
(vi)   Local government responsible for the rural road network.
A study carried out under the project indicates that the rural road network should not remain under
the responsibility of GRD (see 4.1 ii). GRD is a national agency in charge of the main road network (about
3,200 km and 80% of the whole national traffic). Management and administration of the main road network
differ significantly from those of the rural network (about 4,100 km) because of the volume and local
nature of the traffic. GRD cannot pay enough attention, and it cannot manage on a day-to-day basis such
an extensive and spread out network. The O&M study financed under the project suggested -- and the GoA
and IDA agreed -- that the rural road network should be under the management, administration, and
budgeting of the respective local institutions (district councils and communes) in the MoLG. The TA still
required by the MoLG and local institutions will be provided by GRD and its DRDs/RRDs, and through
the Road Maintenance Project.
(vii)   Bureaucratic procedures delay payments.
The GoA's decision that all payments to contractors should be processed through the Bank of
Albania resulted in delayed payments to contractors (see 5.2ii). Such bureaucratic procedures should be
avoided in the future.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrover/iniplemnenting agency:
- 16 -



The Borrower provided its contribution to the ICR (Annex 8). The Borrower comments are
reflected in this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments have been received from the co-financier, the Gol.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.
10. Additional Information
Average cost per km of road, and competitiveness of labor intensive versus conventional
contracts in Albania.
The project included four types of rural road construction: (i) Penetration Macadam (PM), and (ii)
Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) both road types with a 6.5-m wide carriageway and a 5-m
wide bituminous surface; (iii) Gravel (G5) with a 6.0 m wide carriageway and a 5-m wide gravel surface;
and (iv) Gravel (G3) with a 5-m wide carriageway and a 3-m wide gravel surface. The village crossings
always consisted of a 6.0-m asphalted carriageway, and two 1.20-m stone pitched side ditches. The
selection was according to estimated traffic: PM and DBST for relatively high traffic (more than 150 vpd),
G5 for 50 to 150 vpd, and G3 for less than 50 vpd. Eventually, it was decided that DBST would be more
suitable than PM to Albanian circumstances in the future (see 3.4), but PM was still used in many cases.
An analysis of the average cost per km of the four road types (PM, DBST, G5, and G3) was
carried out on the basis of the final actual construction costs (and an average US$1=Lekl30 exchange rate)
of the 52 contracts implemented under the project, with the following results:
PM:       average cost per km of the 176 km built is about Lek5,610, 000 or US$43,150;
DBST:    average cost per km of the 190 km built is about Lek5,571,775 or US$42,860;
G5:       average cost per km of the 179 km built is about Lek4,513,130 or US$34,800; and
G3:       average cost per km of the 145 km built is about Lek3,528,403 or US$27,100.
The above analysis leads to the following considerations:
(i) the costs are between 5% and 10% lower than those estimated for similar works during the
implementation of the project when GRD approved the execution (see 4.2i) of several contracts under
conventional (equipped) methods; and
(ii) the labor intensive contracts paid an average daily salary per person of US$4.4 equivalent, and the
total labor cost amounted (including the slight distortion of the conventional contracts) to about 38.1% of
the contract cost (see 4.1iii). A salary increase of USS0.6 per day or a US$5.0 salary per day, would have
increased the financial cost of labor to a 38.1% x 5.0/4.4 = 43.3% of the contract investment, that is, an
increase of 5.2% in the cost per km. Similarly, a salary increase of US$ 1.1 per day or a US$5.5 salary per
day, would have increased the financial cost of labor to 38.1% x 5.5/4.4 = 47.6% of the investrnent, an
increase of 9.5% in the cost per km. This result seems to suggest that a daily salary of about US$5.0
equivalent per person may be considered as a benchmark (ceiling) for economic competitiveness between
labor intensive and conventionally equipped rural roads contracts in Albania.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome   lImpact Indicators:
I    o r                            Proctd In last PSR                     ActualLatest Esftim
(i) productivity of agriculture and                 90%                        90% - Agricultural production on a
accessibility of the rural population centers                                 cultivated area of 125,000 ha (against
(within 13 of 36 national districts)                                          150,000 ha originally estimated) increased
significantly improved.                                                       and diversified significantly due to better
access (and often, first time access) to
inaccessible land. This land is spread out
among 13 of the 14 original distridcts. The
mobility of the 300,000 population (see
4.1i-ii)) also improved, and now the access to
all social centers (schools, dispensaries,
rural markets) is guaranteed all-year around,
as it is the connection with the main road
network. Because of better and cheaper
mobility of people and freight, the cost of the
agricultural inputs and outputs has
decreased significantly, and crops can be
commercialized nationwide.
(ii) responsibility for the non-GRD roads           100%                     100 % - The road inventory prepared
defined.                                                                      under the 0 & M studiy identified and
classified the 10,000-km rural road network
(all public non-GRD and non-forestry roads),
and it recommended its administration under
local government. Starting in year 2000,
overall responsibility for the administration,
management, and operation of the rural road
network was assigned to MoLG. Specifically,
those rural roads located in and serving more
than one commune (about 7,000 km) are
under the responsibility of the 36 District
Councils. And those rural roads serving
and/or located in one commune (3,000 km)
are under the responsibility of the respective
Commune.
(iii) employment in the road works project           100%                     100%. Employment generated (see 4.liii)
reaches 8,600 person-year (appraisal)                                         in the road works sector through labor
intensive (38.1% of full investment)
increased by more than double over the
traditional 15-20% of the investment
generated in the conventional works. The
project road works generated about
2,365,000 person-day (average salary:
US$4.4/day) job opportunities or 8,600
person/year jobs during a four-year
implementation period (1997-2000). This is a
significant achievement for a project
population with 18,000 families surviving
below the US$21day poverty level or totally
unemployed. Additionally, the project created
about 200 year-job (skilled) for the
consultancy industry.
- 1 8 -



(iv) 52 road works contracts, supervised by            100%                     100% - The project included 52 (690 km)
an intemational consultant assisted by                                         road works contracts supervised by an
domestic consultants, available to the                                        intemational consultant assisted by six
domestic contracting industry; improvement                                    domestic consultants. At the beginning of
of contractors' and consultants' management                                   the project (PPP and PP) these domestic
experence.                                                                    consultants were selected and hired as
individual Albanian professionals (former
employees of the disbanded state-owned
Transport Institutes). With the financing.
TA, and training provided by the project.
these consultants established six consultng
firms which now constitute the core of a
newly established domestic consulting
industry.
The managerial and administrative capacity
of these consulting firms to supervise road
construction, improved considerably through
the project. They now have a better
understanding how to supervise road works
contracts, and to perform tasks relabng to
control of cost, control of quality and
progress of works. Similarly, significant
financial assistance provided under the
project - complemented with valuable TA,
advice in situ, and training - permitted 20
private Albanian entrepreneurs to establish a
new domestic road construction industry in
Albania. They acquired, through the project,
a good knowledge of the management of
bidding, measurement, and billing
procedures. Both sectors are already
represented by two associations: the
Albanian Association of Consulting
Engineers (AACE, with seven members),
and the Construction Companies Association
for Infrastructure (CCAI, with 16 members).
(v) logistical and managerial abilities of the       100%                     100% - The logistical and managerial
GRD and DRDs significantly improved.                                          abilities of GRD and DRDs have improved
significantly. More than 50 staff members
were trained, took courses in new
construction techniques (e.g., DBST), in
general management, and in how to manage
a project under labor-intensive methods. The
establishment of the domestic consultant and
contracting industries permits GRD's
independence from foreign firms for the
routine construction and maintenance of the
road network. The computerization of the
GRD and ORDs, and provision of vehicles, is
also an important logistical achievement
which would permit better supervision,
coordination, and development of
construction, maintenance, and training
operations.
- 19 -



Output Indicators:
IdlicatoaiMatrWx                    Projecd In tast PSR                    ActaltLatest Estimate
(i) Physical Road Improvement Works:                70%                       70% - Completed 690 km of the appraised
Percentage of the 975 km completed and of                                     975 km. Actual cost higher (30%) than
total estimated cost spent;                                                   estimated cost due to (i) lack of market cost
information being the first labor investment
in the rural road sector in Albania; and (ii)
inflation . Furthermore, the actual unit costs
of road works were a result of competitive
bidding carried out during the project.
Consequently, it was impossible to predict
these exact costs at appraisal.
(ii) Institutional Support to Contractors             100%                    100% - All courses on management,
(build up of Domestic Contractors):                                           measurement and billing completed, whether
Problems on using FIDIC, Percentage of                                        directly or through advice in situ. Problems
Courses on management, measurement, and                                       on using FIDIC contracts, mainly relating to
billing completed;                                                            preparabon of qualification documentation,
bidding, and cost certificates were clarified
and resolved during the PPP and the PP,
specifically scheduled to this purpose.
Potential domestic contractors outside the
project also benefitted from its TA and
training.
(iii) Institutional Support to Consultants           100%                     100% - Build up of the domestic consulting
(Build up of Domestic Consultants):                                           industry through six fully established firms
Percentage of staff recruited by Consultant,                                  under the project. Most of the
and of domestic engineers working as                                          engineers/economists working separately
separate consultant groups;                                                   became part of these six firms. Several
engineers and technicians of the former
transport institutes (potential future domestic
consultants) were also indirectly involved in
the project and profited from TA, advice, and
training during the processes of
pre-qualification and bidding.
(iv) Institutional Support and Training of            100%                    100% - GRD and the project DRDs were
GRD and DRDs: Percentage completed of                                         advised in a continuous way by the
courses in contract management, project                                       Intemational Consultants, and the Project
management, training in office practices,                                     Coordinator. Regular training courses took
introduction of maintenance management                                        place in contract management, project
systems, and study tours.                                                     management, and maintenance management
systems, complemented with various study
tours to USA, UK and continental Europe to
get familiarized with modern management
procedures.
(v) Establish Administrative and Financial            100%                    100% - The administrative and finandial
arrangements for managing non-GRD roads:                                      arrangements for managing non-GRD roads
definition of Communes in charge, Budget                                      fully completed. All rural roads under the
allocation, Length completed, Maintenance                                     MoLG authority with direct responsibility from
under implementation.                                                         the District Councils (roads serving more
than one Commune; 7,000 km), and from
the individual Communes (roads serving only
one Commune; 3,000 km). Satisfactory
annual budget (US$4.0 million equivalent in
2001) for maintenance of the whole network,
started in year 2000. However maintenance
still is not carried out satisfactorily.
End of project
NOTE: The Key Performance Indicators used for comparison are taken from the last PSR; the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
was prepared before the formulation of Key Performance Indicators was a requirement (see 7.3 of main text).
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Fiinancing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A.  Road Works                                       24.40          27.07            ill
B.  Office and Transport Equipment                    0.85           0.53             62
B.  Operational Costs                                 0.33           0.16             49
D.  Supervision of Works (A) above                    1.00           2.60            260
E.  Technical Assistance and Training:                0.90           1.35            150
(i)  TA                       (0.30)
(ii) Project Coordinator      (0.40)
(iii) Training                (0.20)
F.  Organization and Management Study                 0.30           0.26             87
Total Baseline Cost                                  27.78          31.97
Physical Contingencies                               2.77           0.00
Price Contingencies                                  3.05           0.00
Total Project Costs             33.60           31.97
Total Financing Required             33.60           31.97
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Apraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
i~~~~~~~~~~M T- -!11S
1. Works                     0.00          29.51         0.00         0.00         29.51
(0.00)       ( I0O.9 1)    (0.00)        (0.00)(10.1)
2. Goods                     0.80          0.00          0.23          0.00         1.03
(0.80)       (0.00)        (0.23)        (0.00)       (1.03)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          2.70         0.00          2.70
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.70)        (0.00)       (2.70)
4. 0 & M Study               0.00          0.00          0.36          0.00         0.36
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.36)        (0.00)       (0.36)
Total                      0.80         29.51         3.29          0.00        33.60
(0.80)       (10.91)       (3.29)        (0.00)      (15.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procureme  Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivaelnt)
wy C -  i-.  :  K;B            ;            =N.8.F.                   TOtCost
1. Works                         0.00           27.07          0.00           0.00          27.07
(0.00)         (8.63)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (8.63)
2. Goods                         0.40           0.00           0.13           0.00          0.53
(0.40)         (0.00)        (0.13)          (0.00)        (0.53)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           4.11           0.00          4.11
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.11)          (0.00)        (4.11)
4. 0 & M Study                   0.00           0.00           0.26           0.00           0.26
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.26)          (0.00)        (0.26)
Total                         0.40           27.07          4.50           0.00          31.97
(0.40)         (8.63)        (4.50)          (0.00)       (13.53)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
X Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  .  .                  .              -        .           e    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol' Appraisal
A. Road Works             10.91     3.60      15.00      8.63       2.64      15.80    79.1   73.3  105.3
B. Office and Transport   1.03      0.00       0.00      0.53       0.00      0.00     51.5   0.0    0.0
Equipment
C. Operational Costs      0.40      0.00       0.00      0.16       0.00      0.00     40.0   0.0    0.0
D. Supervision of Works   1.21      0.00       0.00      2.60       0.00      0.00    214.9   0.0    0.0
(A) above
E. Technical Assistance   1.09      0.00      0.00       1.35       0.00      0.00    123.9   0.0    0.0
and Training
(i) TA
(ii) Project Coordinator
(iii) Training
F. Organization and       0.36      0.00       0.00      0.26       0.00      0.00     72.2    0.0    0.0
Management Study
TOTAL                     15.00     3.60      15.00      13.53      2.64      15.80    90.2   73.3  105.3 -
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE RURAL ROADS PROJECT
The economic evaluation of the Rural Roads Project is based on data prepared and processed by the Rural
Road PIU and Supervision Consultants. The results were obtained through execution of an HDM-4 program based
on data collected by the PIU and GRD. Only the economic benefits of the reduced vehicle operating cost and
travelling time were taken into account. This economic re-evaluation is considered relatively conservative since the
rehabilitation of the existing road sections under the Rural Roads Project provides additional benefits through the
complementary effect of the other components in the civil works component. These benefits are significant,
especially the alleviation of poverty implied by the creation of 8,600 unskilled year-jobs (US$4.4 per day average
salary), and the 200 year-jobs created for the consulting industry.
From the list of the existing road sections results
Gravel roads          324 km
Bituminous roads      367 km
Total                 691 km
The approximate cost of reconstruction/rehabilitation have been calculated on the basis of the total number of
kilometers against budget spent for their rehabilitation/reconstruction or US$ 41,000/km.
Traffic data received from the PIU show that traffic varies from 300 vehicles per day up to 600 vehicles per day,
but there are few sections in which traffic goes down to 150 vehicles per day or up to 800-1000 vehicles per day.
For calculation purposes, we consider an average of 300 to 400 vehicles per day and an annual increase of 5%.
Regarding the road conditions after rehabilitation, we have relied on statistics and data received from supervisors
of the project rural road works. The average IRI (International Roughness Index) value used for the calculations is
6-7m/km.
Calculation of vehicle operating costs (voc) has been made taking into account current Albanian condition (road,
vehicle, and time costs).
Options taken into consideration are
Alternative I - Road Maintenance
Alternative 2 - Road rehabilitation
The type of intervention for the different road sections -- mainly because of the significant traffic increase observed
during the project implementation period -- has been somewhat different from that originally considered.
Road sections have been divided into two groups:
1. Gravel roads which have been reconstructed/rehabilitated using crushed material layers 2 x 15cm; and
2. Bituminous roads which have been reconstructed/rehabilitated using similar type of intervention topped with
Penetration Macadam (PM) or Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST).
After the program HDM-4 has been executed the result is the following:
For the first type of roads (gravel road group)     ERR   30.8%
For the second type of roads (bituminous road group)  ERR   38.3%
For the overall project                      ERR   34.8%
- 23 -



LIST OF CONTRACTS
Contract Number                       Road Name and Number                             Length ( kmi)
SAR        ICR                 SAR              I             ICR                   SAR       Performed
Preliminary Pilot Phase
2          1     Fie.21:Varibopi/Gorshova       Fie.21.-21.2: Rr.Kryesore-Cakran  34.20         15.40
5         2      Fie.18: Levani to Vjosa/Kashisht  Fie.19.-19.1: Levan to Vjosa-Ada  13.30      16.60
26         3     Fie.27: Fierto Krapsi          Fie.27: Fierto Krapsi              8.50         10.40
9         4      Lus.16: Cenme to Tri Urat      Lus.1.2-1.3: Cerme to Tr Urat      9.00         9.00
45         5     Kav.7: Bagoje to DemenUKryevidh Kav.7.1: Bagoje to Domeni         21.00         8.80
68         6     Tir.6: Vaqari to ArbanaNishaj  Tir.6: Vaqari to Arbana            8.90          7.90
Fie.16:Pishe toQarri, Bocova and
6         7      Fie.16: Pishe,Qarri and Bocova    Rreth Fik                      12.40         15.90
27         8     Fie.20: Levan to Shtyllas      Fie.20: Levan to Shtyllas           3.80         4.50
111.10       88.50
Pilot Phase
43         9     Dur 1: Maminas to Hamalla;     Dur.1: Maminas to Hamallaj         15.70        15.70
Dur.10:                        Dur.5-7-8-10-11-12QeretFlaka to
76        9.1    QeretFlaka/P.Roman/Vrnnasi     Vrinas                              8.20        23.90
36               Dur.7: Xhafzotaj to Qeret Flaka    see above                       8.40         0.00
Lus.10: Lushnje to             Lus.10: Lushnie to
25         10    Husgjokaj/Gjuzaj               Hysgjokaj/Kurtina                  22.20        14.30
Lus.11: Bishtcukasi to Germenj    Lus.11 -15-16 Husgjokaj to
10        10.1   junc.                          Xibraka/Allpre-                    6.30          0.00
79               Lus.15: Lushnje to Allprenzi   ndaj/Bishtcukaj                    3.50         17.70
Sko.13-14: Hajmeli to
50         11    Sko.13: Hajmeli to Shalgeti    Shalget/Trushi                      8.40        14.40
71        12    Tir.16: Kashari    _                                               4.00         18.70
82       -      1-  _ Tir.1 1: Karasta to Zaliherri  Tir.8-11-16: Kashari to Laknas  2.70
85               Tir.8: Berxulli to Bregu i Lumit    /KoderKamza                   10.40
23        13    Fie.8: Suku i poshtem and Arapaj  Fie.7-8: Marinza to Suku i       8.60         17.00
24               Fie.7: Mannza to Suku i sipem-    Poshtem/Arapaj                  8.40
11        14    Fie.10:Fier to Seman i ni                                          15.60        16.70
31              LFie.11: Hoxhara to Gjokaili    Fie.10.2-10.3-11.3-11.4-13 Fierto  5.80
58    _           Fie.13: Topoja to Sheq Marinez    Mucaj                          10.30
66        15    Kru.11:NikejtoMukja             Kru.11: Nikel to Mukja             10.00        10.00
35        16    Lac.I: Fushe Mamurras to Gorreja Lac.1-2-3.1-3.2-5: Mamurras to    19.50        33.50
40               Lac.5: Fonat Laci to Gurez     She-Ilinza/ Fushekuqe/ Fosfat Laci    14.00
37        17    Lez.6: Tirana road Piraj/Kodeli    Lez.5-6-8:Dajci to GramshilPiraj  13.30      13.00
39               Lez.5: Gramshi to Dajci                                           4.20
46         18    Lez.2: Shenkoll to Lezha       Lez.2: Ishull Lezha to Shenkoll     8.90         8.90
47         19    Fie.29: Roskovec to Kujani     Fie.29-33: Roskovec to Kudani       5.20        15.40
42               Fie.33:Kurjani to Ngjeqar/Allbresi                                10.20
223.80       219.20
Phase I
4         20    Dev.12: Vranisht road           Dev.7-8-10-12 Roads                2.40         19.30
12               Dev.10: Treni road                                                4.10
29       .      . Dev.7 Biiishti to Hocishti/Graca                                  7.70
49               Dev.8: Bilishti to Babani/Stropani   _____________                 6.70
28        21     Dev.1: Poloska to Mirasi       Dev.1.2-2-2.1-2.2 Roads            16.20         15.70
54        22    Dev.5: Kuci to Perparimaj       Dev.5-7 Roads                       8.00         8.40
59               Dev.6: Borshi to Cipani                                            3.50
- 24 -



Contract Number                          Road Name and Number                                  Length ( kin)
SAR         ICR                   SAR                               ICR                    SAR        Performed
17         23 __Dur. 14: ShNjaku to Hardishta       Dur.3-14 Roads                        8.10          15.20
41                 Dur.663: Salmonaj t   audR                                              9.30      -
18         25      Kav.12: Syne to_Hajdaraj         Kav.1-5-4.1-12-14 Roads               5.90          26.40
19                Kav.14.Kavaje to Momli              _____________                       1.60
33                 Kav.5: Kavaja to Bagoja                                                8.10
-   55  ~~~-        Kav4.4 Rrakul to B'agoj-a                                              8.80
60                 Kavi1: Golemi to Seferaj                                               4.10       _____
3          26     Kav.6: Vorozeni to Beden          Kav.6-11.1-11.2 Roads                 6.80          21.90
81                 Kav.1 1: Kryeluzi to Zambishta                                         8.40        _____
3          27     Kav.6: Vorozeni to Beden          Kav.6-7.3-8.1 Roads                   4.00          26.50
--4  -  ' ,, -,-K,a-v-.7-: Bag-o,je ,to-De-menh/K,ry-e-vid-h,                         12.0        ______
21         28      Kor.l: Korca to Voskopi          Kor.1-8 Roads                         8.50           15.80
52                 Kor.8: Korca to Polena                                                 8.60        _____
16         29      Kor.1 5 Petrusha to Zemblaku     Kor.15-18.1-18.2 Roads                23.70         16.80
34                 Kor. 18: Rembeci to Podgorija                                          16.50       _____
62          30     Kor.23: Zvezda to Plasa          Kor.14,1-21-23 Roads                  7.10          26.30
63                 Kor.14:Pendavinj to Rembeci                                            6.10
80                 Kor.21: Zvezda to Liqenasi                                             11.60
44          31     Kru.9: Hasani to Malikuci        Kru.9 Road                            7.50           6.60
73          32     Lac.9: Sanxhaki to Fushe Kuaja    Lac.8-9-9.1 Roads                    9.00           15.00
75                 Lac.8: N.Mamurrasii to ShIlinza                                        7.40
65          33     Lac.6: Gurezi to Gorej Road      Lac.6-10 Roads                         3.40          10.0
74                 Lac. 1 0: FusheKuaja to Fonat Laci                                     6.60
7      - 34       Lezi1: Zeimeni to Gryja e Lumit    Lez.1 Road                           9.50          11.70
53         35      Lez. 12: Dalci to Kotemr/N'shati  Lez,10-12 Roads                      6.20           13.20
Lez. 10: Rrabnshta to Kallmet i
69                 vogel                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ __       11.60
45          36     Lus.2: Baubnja to Divjaka ( ext.)   Lus.2.1-2.2                         0.00          19.50
30         37      Lus.3 : Babunja to Mertishi      Lus.3-17 Roads                         7.30          9.20
83          ,     -L-us.-17,:, K-e m-is-ht-a to S,op-ez-a,,,               ---------____2-2__0____  2.2
61         38      Lus.7: Bubullima to Kamcishti/lmshi                                    15.90          15.50
57         39      Lus.8: Fier Shegani to Fier iRi  Lus.8-9.2 Roads                       7.80           13.50
70                 Lus.9: Karbunare to Zgjane        ______________                        5.80       _____
84         40      Pbg.12: Blaca and Alarupi        Pog.12 Road                           7.40           7.60
8          41     Tir.7: Stermasi to Kocaj Tavareni  Tir.7 Road                           9.50          15.10
1          42     Vlo.8: Fitore to Dellinja         Vlo.8-9 Roads                        11.20          10.50
14         43      VIo.l: Xhyerina to Beshishti                                           11.50          11.40
_________   ___ ____________ __________   _ ____________ ____________ 347.80  351.10
Lus.  : Bishtcukasi to Germenj
10          li-i                  junc.               Bishtcukaj - Germenj                  0.00           8.40
Lus. 1 1: Bishtcukasi to Germeni
10          11-2                  junc.               Bishtcukaj - Germenj                  0.00           1.50
No ref.      11-3                 No ref.             Ura e Cenit-ishull i Lezhes           0.00           3.80
No ref.      11-4                 No ref.             Fier 29 Road to Mbersi                0.00           2.70
No ref.      I1-5                 No ref.             Rr. Kombetare-Progren                 0.00           6.80
No ref.      11-6                 No ref.             Kav6 Sterberg-Spille                  0.00           3.00
No ref.      11-7                 No ref.             Rrembec-Rov                           0.00           1.30
No ref.      11-8                 No ref.             Tir&Damjan - Kocaj Veski              0.00           4.90
________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _________________ ________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 0.00  32.40
Total KM                                                   682.70   ( 691.20
Total KM left from SAR (w ithout including Additional Roads)                120.30       _____
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions;
Seof Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rati
(e.g. 2 Economis, I FMS, etc.)      Implementafion   Development
Month/Year   Count        I Specialty                       Progress       Obetive
Identification/Preparation
3/94                       2   TM, Tr. Economist                   HS             HS
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/94 (App.)                3   TM, Tr. Economist, FS               HS             HS
3/95 (Neg.)                6   TM, Tr. Economist, LEG, DISB,       HS             HS
PA, 0A
Supervision
6/95                        3   TM,Tr. Economist, PA               HS             HS
11/95                       3   TM, Tr. Economist, TE              HS             HS
5/96                        1  TM                                  HS             HS
8/96                        3   TM, TS, TE                         HS             HS
12/96                       3   TM, Tr. Economist, TS              HS             HS
11/97                      2   TM, Tr. Economist, TS               S               U
3/98                        2   TM, TS                             S               S
9/98)                       2   TM, TS                             S               S
12/98                      3   TM, TS, TE                          S               S
8/99                        3   TM, TS, PO                         S               S
1/00                        3   TM, TS, PO                         S               S
6/00                        3   TM, TS, PO                         S               S
10/00                       4   TM, TS, PA, PO                     S               S
ICR
2/01                       3    Prepared with supervision           S             HS
mission (TM, Tr.
Economist, PA)
Abbreviations: DIS = Disbursement Officer; FS =Financial Specialist; LEG = Legal Counselor; OA = Operations
Analyst; PA = Procurement Analyst; PO = Project Officer; TE = Transport Engineer; TM = Task Manager; Tr.
Economist = Transport Economist; TS = Transport Specialist. The teams always overlapped with the Transport
Project, and late with the National Roads Project.
NOTE: April 14, 1997 - Following State of Emergency, project implementation was halted.
November 5, 1997 - Progressive Restart of Implementation.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_____________________ _             VNo. Staff weeks            USS ($ 000
Identification/Preparation               73.0                       171.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                    31.6                       98.8
Supervision                             141.6                      388.8
ICR                                       5.0                        18.1
Total                                  251.3                       677.6
-26 -



Annex E. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  0 NA
Z Physical                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  * SU O M  O N  C NA
Z Institutional Development               * H  O SU 0 M  C N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction                 O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Z Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
* Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
3 Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
? Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
-28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.  Albania Country Strategy Paper, February 28, 1994.
2.  Albania Country Strategy Paper of July 18, 1998.
3.  Albania Feeder (Rural) Roads Study, ITECO, July 1994.
4.  Albania Feeder (Rural) Roads Study - Supplementary Report, ITECO, December 1994.
5.  Albania Rural Roads Project, Staff Appraisal Report No. 13804-ALB, May 1, 1995.
6.  Rural Roads Project, Development Credit 2732-ALB Agreement between Albania and IDA,
July 13, 1995.
7.  Albania Rural Roads Project, Agreement GoI/GoA, dated July 13, 1996.
8.  Albania Rural Roads Project, Agreement GoI/IDA, dated September 19, 1996.
9.  Organization and Management (O & M) Study, ITECO, December 1999.
10. IDA missions Back-to-Office Reports, PSRs, and Aide-Memoires from April 1994 through
March 2001.
11. Draft ICR (Comments) prepared by the Borrower.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
(I.D.A. CREDIT NO. 2732-ALB)
Prepared by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Rural Roads Project
Ministry of Transport
Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Oualitv at Entrv
1.1 OBJECTIVES
The project was defined to improve some 975 km of rural roads in fourteen districts. The main objectives of the
project are:
-      to promote agricultural development by rehabilitating and maintaining rural roads serving agricultural
areas and to improve access, economic and social services for rural population centers;
-      to reduce poverty and increase employment by carrying out project works with labor intensive methods;
-      to establish institutional and financial arrangements for administering and maintaining rural roads on a
sustainable basis; and
-       to encourage the development of the domestic contracting and consulting industries.
1.2   Revised Objectives
The objectives were no revised.
1.3 Original Components
The feasibility study classified the rural roads into six categories:
RI:    Road formation is acceptable, surfacing is needed.
R2:    Road formation is deformed.
R3:    Stone pitching with level shoulders.
R4:    Deformed stone pitching with eroded or destroyed shoulders.
R5. 1:  Road formation destroyed, sub-grade acceptable.
R5.2:  Road formation destroyed, sub-grade not acceptable.
For the road improvement, four standards were defined:
PM     Penetration Macadam, 5-m wide carriageway and 2 x 0.75 m wide shoulders (for high traffic volume >
150 vpd).
G 5    Gravel Road 5-m wide (for 50 to 150 vpd).
G 3    Gravel Road 3-m wide with 2-x 0.75 m wide shoulders (for less than 50 vpd).
Village crossings consisted of a Penetration Macadam 6-m wide carriageway with of 2 x 1.20-m drainage lateral
ditches in stone masonry.
- 30 -



-      Preliminary Pilot Phase (PPP) consisted of 8 contracts from Contract No. I to Contract No. 8 inclusive.
-      Pilot Phase (PP) consisted of 13 contracts from Nos. 9, 9. 1, 10 and 10.1 to No. 19 inclusive.
-      Phase I (Ph.I) consisted of 23 contracts from No. 20 to No. 43 inclusive.
-      Phase II (Ph.II) consists of 8 contracts from No. 11-1 to No. II-8 inclusive.
1.4  Revised components
In July 1998, BCEOM recommended and GRD decided to replace almost all Penetration Macadam (PM) by
Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST). PM was only left on road sections where, either for technical
reasons or for availability of materials, placing of PM was necessary.
The latest inventory showed a total of 690 km of rural roads to be improved under 52 different contracts. Contract
No. 1 of the Preliminary Pilot Phase and Contract No. 15 of the Pilot Phase were terminated and rebid. Contract
No. 24 was cancelled to be financed by another agency.
1.5 Quality at Entry
We are pleased to report that despite various difficulties causing several contracts to lag behind schedule, the
majority of the contract civil works were completed by the end of September 2000. Fortunately, due to favorable
weather conditions, the remaining works were accomplished during the months of October and November. While
the last remaining Contractors were able to apply a final effort to complete the works, at the satisfactory standard
required by the Project Manager/Engineer, in the first two weeks of December 2000.
Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
1.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
The objectives of the project were achieved. The qualifications that follow must be viewed against the perspective
that this was the Bank's first Rural Roads Project in democratic Albania after long isolation, centralized
govemance and management, and rudimentary institutions.
Through technical assistance, ministries responsible for transport matters, their administrative departments, and
service delivery organizations are being modernized. Previously, in the road sector, policy formulation, planning,
design, management, and implementation of works were in five separate, state-owned, poorly funded departments
or companies. There now is a functional ministry responsible for policy and regulaton, and a road directorate
responsible for planning and management.
Technical assistance helped MTC, later combined and transformed to Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade
(MITT), then to Ministry of Public Works (MPW), and recently again divided into Ministry of Transport (MoT)
and Ministry of Public Works (MPW), to refocus its mission from production to policy and regulation. A
comprehensive road safety study was completed with a joint implementation plan defined for the MoT and the
Ministry of Interior.
A rural roads study articulated the future role of the Albanian rural areas and provided a framework for politically,
technically, and financially feasible investments and courses of action. Proposals are being implemented under the
follow-up Rural Roads Project, Credit 2732-ALB.
With the exception of few small parts of contracts, the physical products were successfully completed. The
contracts and the TA provided enabled an incipient domestic construction industry to emerge, through individual
or joint-venture companies, and to acquire the assets and knowledge required for public competitive bidding.
Domestic construction companies are now bidding and winning most of the road works contracts, and in the Rural
Roads Project the required 'working ratio' and operating ratio' targets were met.
1.2 Output by Components
The latest inventory showed a total of 690 km of rural roads to be improved under 52 different contracts. Contract
No. I of the Preliminary Pilot Phase (PPP) and Contract No. 15 of the Pilot Phase (PP) were terminated and
re-tendered. Contract No. 24 was cancelled to be financed by another agency.
- 31 -



1.3   Net Present Value/ Economic rate of return
Economic Rate of Returns for the whole rural road works were calculated by the PIU using the HDM4 model.
1.4  Financial Rate of return
Not applicable since the executing agency, GRD, is a non revenue earning entity.
1.5  Institutional development impact
The institutional development impact achieved through the project is substantial. However, the work is by no
means completed. Institutional development is broadened and continued under the ongoing projects for the
Emergency Road Repair Project, and the Maintenance Project. At project completion the organization of the rural
areas has changed satisfactorily.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
1.1 Factors outside the control of government agency
The collapse of the pyramid scheme in late 1996 triggered civil unrest, rioting and near anarchy that the
Government was unable to control. The project's technical assistance personnel left Albania for about four
months. The road works were halted for nearly a year and suffered damage that resulted in claims. The sites and
the construction equipment were also damaged in the riots; the former has been reequipped, but contractor's
claims, not covered by a riot insurance, are still unsettled. The transition toward a market economy also brought an
unforeseen pressure on the civil society.
1.2 Factors generally subject to government control
1.2.1 Biturnen supplies
The shortage, availability and inappropriate quality of bitumen (softer grade for our rural roads surfacing)
produced by the local Albanian sole supplier AlbPetrol Refinery, has been a constant cause for concern.
Following meetings between the PIU and AlbPetrol Refinery bitumen production management, all contractors
entered into firm contracts with the supplier in the spring of 1998. Despite these contracts and assurances, there
have been reports from contractors that the quantity and quality of the bitumen available to them have not met their
requirements. However, there was a marked improvement in the availability in year 2000 compared to 1999.
Unfortunately, some contractors who were behind schedule with their bitumen surfacing work, did get caught out
at the end of October 2000, when due to the necessity to concentrate on the much needed heating fuel oils, the
production of bitumen had to be stopped.
1.3  Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
1.3.1 Construction equipment:
As these road works contracts were meant to be labor intensive, several contractors did not have the financial
resources or skill operational personnel to undertake the road rehabilitation work by mechanical means. However,
it was necessary to encourage few of those contractors who were well behind schedule to discontinue their
concentration on labor intensive methods, particularly in those regions where labor was not available or reluctant
to work on roads.
1.3.2 Contractors ability to manage
Some cohtractors lacked qualified and experienced personnel to prepare construction programs to match their
- 32 -



resources and the contract time schedules. They also demonstrated a misunderstanding of their construction
contract conditions. Several contractors also fell behind with the submission of their "Interim Payment certificates"
and had to be encouraged to do so, especially towards the end of the project.
Sustainability
1. I Rationale for sustainability
Sustainability of the project is likely. This is because the private sector has emerged as a provider of transport
services, consulting, construction of civil works, and to a lesser extent, maintenance. The new management
concepts are being adopted and absorbed. Sustainability is also helped through the ongoing projects, prepared with
the project funds, that continue with the technical assistance and training to sector officials and to the construction
and consulting industries, and provide business and employment opportunities for the new firms. In sum,
continued cooperation between the Bank, other development organizations and the Albanian government and
private sector organizations is needed for continued sustainability.
1.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations
It will still pass few years before transition to regular operation is complete. In part this is because of the new
organizations weak managerial skills and lack of experience in a market economy, and also because Albania lacks
a perrmanent civil service. Conversion to new technologies and learning new procedures of work, cooperation and
competition, would be essential during the transition period.
Lessons Learned
1.1 Roads designs
Drainage
Rural roads should not be look upon as low cost roads, since low costs are confined to reduced costs for design and
the resulting construction. However, if not enough attention is paid to establishing the design parameters, with
careful consideration to road drainage, then rapid deterioration of the road and higher maintenance costs should
be expected. Usually, soils good for agriculture are not the best for road construction. In order to prevent water
from reducing the bearing capacity of the sub-grade soils, it is normal to specify that the top of sub-grade just
below the sub-base should be at least 30 cm above the highest known water table. This "rule of thumb" should also
be applied to the lateral drains of the road. These factors alone call for a careful study of the water table and
drainage requirements of the agricultural area that the road is meant to serve.
Traffic
A traffic counting team with qualified and experienced traffic engineers need to establish procedures and methods
for counting, comparing and constantly monitoring traffic volumes, types, weights and speed of traffic using the
agricultural roads. It has been observed that overloaded trucks carrying cement, gravel, bricks and other
construction materials appear to be using the roads without any apparent concem or understanding of how they are
damaging roads not designed for this type of traffic.
Road Widths
Some care should be taken before specifying minimum road widths, especially since expropriation does not appear
to be taken sufficiently into account for this first rural road project. A minimum width of 4 meters needs to be
taken into consideration when going through inhabited areas, if there is insufficient width between properties to
accommodate lateral drains. Concrete lined covered drains might be needed to allow for adequate width and access
to the adjacent properties.
Road Sub-base and Base Course Materials
In order to maintain stability and prevent movement within the pavement layers, especially in the sharp curves, one
should consider crushed-stone base to allow for inter-particle locking. However, this type of material is not always
- 33 -



available within reasonable economic hauling distance, besides these materials need excavation and screening
processing. Hence, a careful borrow-pit survey needs to be undertaken.
Road Surfacing (Gravel)
At first, non bituminous surfaced gravel roads may appear to be cheaper; however, if the quality of the gravel is not
good and it lacks sufficient binding material, then frequent regravelling will be required during maintenance.
Road Surfacing (Bitumen)
Bitumen surfaced roads, if constructed over suitably prepared sub-base and base courses, do have a longer period
between maintenance re-surfacing than non bituminous roads. However, it is a fallacy to consider Double Bitumen
Surface Treatment (DBST) as more economical, if one has not coasted into the surfacing the use of a grader to
produce the specified plus or minus 15 mm surface tolerance. This tolerance is usually specified to avoid surface
irregularities causing rapid stripping from the bitumen layer. Therefore, given the current local expertise with PM,
it may be wiser to stick to proven methods before the necessary mechanical plant is widely available to introduce
DBST which has been used for low-cost roads elsewhere.
1.2 Specifications
The concept of the first Rural Roads Project was to meet the objectives of providing some additional work in the
rural areas, hence the choice of labor intensive construction. Unfortunately, it appears that the specification
requirements for the degree of compaction required, surface tolerance mentioned above, and the construction
periods did not seem to have been taken into enough consideration. It has been stated that, at the start of this
project and during some time thereafter, there were no graders or suitable roller compactors available. In fact, only
recently does one find vibrating rollers, which are extremely efficient in obtaining high degrees of compaction,
being used.
1.3 Contract's documents
To avoid the inevitable claims lodged by the contractors immediately after award of contracts and the resultant
variation orders, it is essential that very carefully monitored topographical surveys be carried during the design
phase, in order to accurately record the existing ground levels. It would then be possible after designing the road to
establish the final surface elevation and hence calculate the quantities required for the Bill of Quantities.
Particularly, for the earthworks and gravel fill layers, the quantities should be measured by volume not by surface.
By so doing, the contractors could easily determine the construction plant, materials and time required to complete
the works.
1.4 Contractors constructions management
Many local contractors still do not appear to know how to prepare a Construction Work Plan and often
underestimate their requirements to complete the civil works during the favorable summer construction months.
The winter months tend to be spent with low income producing activity, with spring being used to recover from the
period of hibernation.
1.5 FIDIC and General Contract Conditions
We have held seminars during the winter months on understanding FIDIC contract conditions with practicai
on-the-job follow up in the spring and early summer. To continue and to increase the number of these seminars
should be extremely useful to contractors, consultants, and many officers in the road divisions.
1.6 The role of "THE ENGINEER" (as per FIDIC)
We should do refresher courses for all site resident engineers as well as for contractors site agents, to help them
clearly understand the role and delegated powers of the resident engineer (RE) and those of the contractor's site
representative (agent). Also to help them understand the meaning of a unit cost contract, and how to prepare an
- 34 -



interim certificate based on site measurement records.
Diversity of Contractors under the Project
Total number of contracts implemented by this project:           52 contracts
Total number of contractors:                                     34 contractors
Number of contractors awarded one contract:                       14 contractors
Number of contractors awarded two contracts:                      9 contractors
Number of contractors awarded three contracts:                    2 contractors
Number of contractors awarded four contracts:                     I contractor
Number of local contractors:                                      31 contractors
Number of joint ventures (Albanian/Italian):                      3 Joint Ventures
Achievements
The granting of independent decision-taking authority in the fields of procurements, project management and
disbursement, has allowed the PIU to attain, within the last 20 months, a productivity equal to 70% of the project
disbursement thus achieving the elsewhere mentioned 96% disbursement of the total value of the Credit
Agreement. We consider this a major achievement, together with the fact that all 52 contracts have been 100%
completed before the closing date of December 31, 2000.
Another achievement is the training aspect. Apart from continuous on-the-job training, all the PIU team members
as well as other key GRD and MoT staff have been sent on specialized Project and Contract Management Courses
to the USA, UK, and continental Europe.
We are pleased to inform that both, the consultants and the contractors, have established professional,
non-governmental, and nonpolitical Associations for the advancement of the Albanian construction and consulting
industries, one of the objectives of this project. Please refer to ANNEX - (CCAI) that contains details about the
group of civil engineering contractors who have formed the CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES ASSOCIATION
for INFRASTRUCTURE. Most of the members are firms who have worked in the project. The second group has
been formed by independent Albanian consulting engineers, who wish to be affiliated to one of the European
consultant associations. They have called themselves ALBANIAN ASSOCIATION OF CONSULTING
ENGINEERS and one can find details about this association in the attached ANNEX - AACE.
ANNEX - C.C.A.I.
*      CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES ASSOCIATION for INFRASTRUCTURE (CCAI)
*      The starting history of the private constructing companies
During the last decade, as a result of the changes in the political system, Albania passed from a centralized
economy to a free market economy. After the social economic system in Albania failed, all the constructing
enterprises were completely destroyed and all the existing constructing capacity was paralyzed. In these conditions,
a part of the intellectual constructing capacity, according to the free market economy laws, took the initiative to
organize the first private constructing enterprises. Although these companies were without any financial support
and possibilities to realize the eventual investments, they used the experience accumulated during and through the
formner regime constructions. Some of these companies formed JV (joint venture) with local or foreign (mostly
Italian) investors. Gradually, a part of these private companies with a long-term vision, made investments in
equipment and in their consolidation, in order to carry out larger investment with higher technical parameters.
Subsequently, some of the constructing companies tried to penetrate in the projects of large infrastructure works.
These forays were supported and helped by the Programs for Albanian Rural Roads Development.
*      CCAI ORGANIZATION
Based on the bad infrastructure conditions which are faced in Albania and in the projects for its development, we
- 35 -



wish to be engaged in the improvement of the existing infrastructure, using our growing professional and technical
capabilities. To fulfil] this objective, we have reached the conclusion that we have to institutionalize our
collaboration, in order to be able to use our professional, economical and technical capabilities in the most rational
way. In this way, we can take part in the realization of investments for the Albanian infrastructure, including
international tenders.
CCAI is created for this reason - as a professional, organizing and monitoring Institution - helping the
development of the capacity of the construction companies. This nonpolitical institution will represent legally the
technical and economic interests of all its members, and it will define the strategies and ways to achieve the
necessary parameters that help its presence in international tenders for infrastructure investments in Albania.
The membership criteria, the reciprocal rights and obligations, and the organization and collaboration procedures
are fixed in the Institution Status and in its Functioning Regulations.
We are presenting some information, so you can create an opinion about this Association:
a)     The construction capacity that it owns.
b)     The technical and economical parameters that it represents.
The CCAI has actually 16 ( sixteen ) member construction companies, and it is open to any interested company.
The technical and administrative staff, with over 10-35 years of background has a big experience in hydropower,
industrial complexes, infrastructure construction, social and cultural works, and living apartments constructed
during the centralized economy. CCAI has employed a great number of qualified staff, such as construction
specialists of different types and operators for aggregate concrete, cement production, wearing course asphalt
works, horizontal and vertical excavation, transport, and hauling.
ANNEX - AACE
*      Albanian Association of Consulting Engineers (AACE)
The AACE is an NGO and non-profit organization which represents firns and engineers all throughout
Albania. The AACE is proud to support and help the consulting activity in Albania. It was founded on May
10, 2000, by Decision of the Low Court of Tirana No. 1428 and by Act No. 1678 according to Article 39
of current Civil Code of Albania, to protect the rights of its members on dealings with the public and private
sectors, and specifically to:
*      stimulate an honest competition between consulting engineers all over the country;
*      take part and to give opinions on the licensing of consulting engineers;
*      protect and stimulate an honest competition between local and foreign consulting, especially  on the
investment with the World Bank, EC, European Bank;
*      protect the intellectual property;
*      make up the listing of the competency and of the activity of Consultancy in Albania;
*      stimulate an honest consulting business in the field of taxation;
*      help private and public consulting companies, and individuals to be paid appropriately according to the
Albanian rules or international tariffs;
*      make efforts to join European and other similar International Associations (FIDIC); and
*      make our local consulting/engineering market competitive with the international market.
A short history
Private consultant activity in Albania is only one decade old, since 1990 when the country passed from a
centralized economy to a market economy. Before 1990, all consulting experience and activity were concentrated
in the former institutes, which lacked financing for laboratories, and technical literature, and worked within an
isolated economy. After the collapse of the centralized system, most of these institutions and organizations halted
or limited their  activity and the private  engineering business became active and competitive. With the
improvement of the economic situation, the private consulting business expanded and improve year after year with
new standards and levels well suited to respond to the requests of the new economy. Now, there are several
consulting companies around country which deal in this business, most of them successfully. Also, a lot of
individual consultants are capable to compete in this business. The consultancy is now very strong not only in the
- 36 -



construction field, but also in energy, water supply, telecommunication, and other fields of infrastructure and
industry. Some companies and individual consultants have demonstrated high capability comparable to that of
foreign consultants. A lot of them now participate successfully in consulting services, design and supervision of
works in highways, roads, energy sector, telecommunication, and industry. They wanted to be represented through
an Association in order to strengthen their position in front of the clients, and to become honest and useful both,
for themselves and for the entire economy and the country.
Consequently, a group of consulting engineers, in early 1993, tried to establish their organization but it failed for
some specific reasons. The Association was established only few months ago, in May 2000, as the Albanian
Association of Consulting Engineers, according to the Albanian Legislation. Our Association now have registered
some hundred engineers, and intend to become a real and effective organization of Albanian engineers. Also, we
have established a relationship with FIDIC (International Federation of Consulting Engineers), and we expect to
become an associated member soon.
The AACE leading body is the Directive Board with a President (Chairman), a General Secretary, and Chiefs of
Departments. There are 9 departments:
*      Department of Public Relations
*             "        Foreign Relations
*             "       Civil Engineering and Infrastructure
*             "        Industrial Technology and Environment
*             "        Energy
*             "        JUrban Planing and Architecture
*             "        Oil and Gas
*             "       Geology, Mines and Forestry
*             "       Telecommunications.
Also the AACE have a secretary, and a legal advisor (lawyer). This scheme is not permanent. We intend to
improve it following development of the Association.
The AACE is just in the first steps, but we hope and believe that with its human approach, it will be very useful
for the engineering business, and for the country.
LIST OF REPORTS PREPARED
Rehabilitation and Implementation of Elbasan - Qafe Thane (border) road and Feasibility Study of
Viora-Durres highway.
Prepared by " Infra Project Consulting" sh.p.k            year 1996
Design for "Berat-Corovoda" for Emergency Project
Prepared by " SDC" sh.pk                                  year 1999
Organization and Management Study for Maintenance Project
Prepared by "ITECO"                                       year 1999
TRAINING
According to the international supervision consulting engineering (ISCE) firm DIWI/GICO their experience
working with the local consultants revealed that the capability of the local resident engineers for project and
contract management is limited, and further training is needed. The PIU insists that the expatriate resident
engineers provided continuous on-the-job training with an emphasis on quality control and measurement of
quantities.
The ISCE produced a "Check List" to enable the local consultant firms and their site engineers to prepare all the
documents required to be produced and submitted by the resident engineers.
The local resident engineers were required to countersign every interim payment certificate, and they were
encouraged to guide and assist some of the contractors to present them in time,
- 37 -



The ISCE has prepared "Typical Standard Letters" for the contractors in order to comply in time with FIDIC
regulations and with their contractual obligations. Particularly those letters that must be submitted by the
contractors to the PIU or the MoT at the end of the defect liability period (DLP) in order to obtain the Defects
Liability Certificate, thereby discharging them from any further obligations (unless they have not completed the
repairs to the defects encountered).
Standard Forms were also prepared and used to issue "Taking Over Certificates" and "Taking Over Inspections"
together with "Snag Lists".
Several MoT officers, and all PIU staff were sent on selected training courses and seminars to the USA, UK, and
other European locations. The courses attended in London by the Albanian PIU team members during the past two
years included Project and Contract Management, Financial Management, and Modernizing Government with
particular emphasis on civil service.
- 38 -






MAP SECTION






18&30'-                19930'2000                                                                                     219300
I-.~ r                                        For Detai 1810'_!19SeFEDERAL   REPUBLIC   OF  YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA 0                                        IBRD 26232
tAIt                                                                                                                                         42'30' 
ALBANIA-'                                              .;-_ 
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                        -
PROJECT DISTRICTS                                                                                                                 490
-      PROJEcT DISTRS                                                                                         I
o SELECTED CITIES                        sI
*    DISTR4I CETER                              S e                        .
* NATIONA CARITAL
-NATIONAL ROADS
RAILROADS
- -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
41'30'                                                                                                                                       4'0
ELEVATIONS IN4 METERS:                                                                                           FY 
A dr iati cSe
Sea                                                                    hr:d$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tRD 2623,4R
>~~~~~ w
:   ,,_ ,,   X,  ,5  ,S    a Sj_                                                      ,_I>C
O  7   -             . +    B 3.      ~ VA30'                                20V~ 00                    [0630 L0 .1
Li                               C
(  arc:    /~ ~~T
/                 /                       18~~~~~~~~IRD26233R
AtO404NIA-                                                                              0    1,0  20   30   40   50
/                                                                                        K ILOMEOORO                a
19S                    20'0O'                  20'30'                  21930'      C






05g.0     *r            2'0'         216                                                            _-
,HERZI       FED, REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                                             -
F/                                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC .                                         OF YUGOSLAVIA
M-AP       1          42 j
5hngl          .. .J'*{
.   I FYR                                                                                           .1/
<MACEDONIA                                          .                      %.              -
Adrio tic      V   'n _           _                    2                                                  Y ,r'           
Ses   I  zA LBRA Nll\,                             4                       /                                                                          )v/3 Oabn
1.  SLA JN"'--                                                                               lVobona
t/ -or  a; S l   t./>*TROPOJE
i5 1RD 2tlTS3F IF Docli SeJ}
\   t i .<6l.   SW) IBRD zc'34% o1                      -/>           2)      0                )    /RBairam
ITALYV        l,                             0          Toi9o                       )               S        1   
- , GREECE           .     'SHKODER                                                                    Fjerz 
is'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 
w a,  s ,  0      0            <              *4,-    ~~~~~~PUKE 
iush Arr6 P
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                            tri       e            T                                             .
TIRANE AND NORTHERN                                 - _            IhaS                            t                                           -
DISTRICTS
S    [igjn      Rrabo5h*r                           MIRDITE
PROJECT ROADS:                                                                 (
BITUMINOUS SURFACED, 5.00 METERS                                               LeAz    5 ik              Rs               Kurbneshi  
GRAVEL SURFACED, 5.00 METERS                                               1      I
GRAVEL SURFACED, 3.00 METERS
SD    ROAD CONTRACT REFERENCE NUMBERS             Adriatic                   shlkI        |zej           /                 r   '.
Grykl, e Luimi      8 X 5_           ,'
-    NATIONAL ROADS                                      Se a
__ GRAVEL ROADS
0  SELECTED CITIES
DISTRICT CENTERS
 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                    S-imBre                                                           A
RIVERS                                                        DURRES        hm s             *           -
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                    K,ui6
.    kuM/ilk         4     m KUEf              >O
t  \     t   aFushe~~F    Kruie                @i
q  <  8stidE             1            ~~~TlhRANE -                   6,
0     5     iT    15    20TKilomlenD
0         5          10      15Mil'.
( Th,0A7oh          A rhwona  b 
iS   ~    So, endiootioply'oA.po'olly Warr,Be .k
o    .o3             KA,oT  j-T  re'ELBALSAN
>                        5^0J5odnflnZvldn=CE K/\AE.\o






tos E'.      19            20'            21
,HER .        FED. REP OF YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                 LAC                 Burrel
4 , - ; 5' t-xfi : -. _. ~~~~~~~~Momurosi\A -   '
71      ,,             .sDURRES   \                                                                        -,
'K. ' S i,./ 42                                          ,                                                 MAT
FYR
MACEDONIA
I   Ti-6n
Adriatic                                                                                i   -  re  Ri
!SAL*   Na'                                                                                                            TIRAN
4TALY)!                   \       r             41'              Ro,o,o
PortoRo
-I--,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ITALY,
,                a        .   >}    GREECE             Adriatic            Golemosi       ferof
foniffO   S.e .                                                                Rrakull-Ka ie   Moi  \  'Z
ALBANIAao                                                                                               EiBASAN
g i i)~ /s  l6V rrozei.      \           > 
Dmi Vogeli                                                                      E1'6_., 
::    yevidhhina ~'  PEQiN    I                                         4
ALBANIA                                                                     j         LJNFoygka    
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                                            Lu-  n  39
DURRES AND SOUTHERN                                           Qa>   VGuri  M evrbunrce Poshtime
DISTRICTS                                           ""r
PROJECT ROADS:
BITUMINOUS SURFACED, 5.00 METERS                 ,              \ |          Pier
GRAVEL SURFACED, 500 METERS                       /    SF,Iyllmbs,   HEi
GRAVEL SURFACED, 3.00 METERS                       Bo-ovo 8' P                                              Ahalo1sri pa
76     ROAD CONTRACT REFERENCE NUMBERS                         7          .              K                  , , ,            Bec1ori
NATIONAL ROADS                                  :llh                                                          r
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                           Go
0  O  SELECTED CITIES
I)   DISTRICT CENTERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
_ RIVERS                                       KY12ti  e                                Xh.yherin.                          -
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-.-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\XA |t VLORE 
O      5     iT    15    20 Ki,b-,
I      I      I      I      I                                                ikumi                                                               len       1
I  -       I          I          I 
0          5          10       15MMiLs
S  <       BraFgX                     ,   ~~~~~TEPELENE          f       -
- ,>             -teKu~~~~           ~       ~      ~~~~~ci s  
'-,    GJiROKASTER\
- <   SARANpEt                           \   iiiGii
>DTbedLVINEGjirokosI6r c
c  .                                                                                                                                  .~.&,. ..h ,k ,     Oh.,h,,,






IBRD 26234R
BOS &     1'9         20'          21'
ALBANIA                                                 R           FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SOUTHERN DISTRICTS                                               4
PROJECT ROADS:                                                                   4'Sher9in   ,
BITUMINOUS SURFACED, 5.00 METERS           0 0  SELECTED CITIES                                                    FYR
_        GRAVEL SURFACED, 5.00 METERS                 DISTRICT CENTERS                                                 MACEDONIA
40     ROAD CONTRACT REFERENCE NUMBERS                RIVERS                             Adriatic
NATIONAL ROADS                        -    - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                    Sea          AL A  -J
GRAVEL ROADS                          -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          A, 9
ew            \                          {*   > /                     \<  l~~~~~~ ~ ~ ITALY        
40'                                     40'
a'       ,  ~~GREECE
Lake               loani  Sea
LIBRAZHD                                                                            9            0 L1G
Ohrid
0000;                    S'                            i  1                   
ELBASAN                                                                                       FYR
, ^           \             t                s          gMACEDONIA
|  _  _  _ v ~~~~~~~~~- / f _ -}~~~~~P  ra e                                      -La~ske\|
Prespes
<           PC'G~~~PO RAD'EC:                                    Alaru                           Pespe
GRAMSH                -                                                  B ca
Pre'iut ,h                    
~~~<           \,  t    <                  ;s ,/X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odgorija                   ,,                 g
R~meci   30      2929'
\<   .,/                                      1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29  \9   30)     
no~             KOR~E             iq   11- P  davinji \        k /
trpani20            Bj2C t
\-  0      $<    lX KOR5DE                              X         j  VrqrwlJshtKOiETrenii
*Korpi    I   Graca
s                       ~~~~~~~Hoist  Bosi
A.-                                               ~~~~~~       ~        ~ ~~~~~~Grapehi  2   olsk
/ (; i~~~~~~~~~~~~pani  \
SKRAPAR                                                                                                 21
'DEV
The .oaadories  colorsI
denominations and any                                                                               _
other infomti-on shownEE
on this mop do not
in,ply,  an the   part of                                             .00
The World Beak Graup,
ny jdrn,ent on the legal            "                         s                                     0        5       10       15Kilometers
stabJs    of  any   teritosy,                                                                       ___.___ __*_ ____*_ _|_i__i __ |
Ort. ofpanea ny c Wri-y               1                    OO                                      0          5    "I        OM iloeers
or cny endorsement         'sea *5
innandories.     s                                                                                                I ' KOLONJE  0  5  o  s   Miles
APRIL 2001



