Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. 13804-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
MAY 1, 1995
Energy, Environment, Transport and Telecommunications Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek (Average Commercial Rates)
Avg. Avg. Avg. December March
1991  1992  1993    1994    1995
US$1.00 =   15.0  98.9  101.0  94.7       92.3   Leks
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAS         -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEE         -      Central-Eastern Europe
DC          -      direct contracting
DRD         -      District Road Directorate
ERR         -      economic rate of return
EU/G24      -      European Union/Group 24
G           -      gravel
GDP         -      gross domestic product
GNP         -      gross national product
GOA         -      Government of Albania
GRD         -      General Roads Directorate
HDM         -      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICB         -      international competitive bidding
IDA         -      International Development Association
IFAD        -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFIs        -      international financing institutions
IMF         -      International Monetary Fund
IRI         -      international roughness index
IRP         -      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
LCB         -      local competitive bidding
LS          -      local shopping
MOF         -      Ministry of Finance
m/m         -      man/month
MOC         -      Ministry of Construction and Tourism
MOT         -      Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade
N.I.F.      -      non-IDA financed
N.P.V.      -      net present value
p.a.        -      per annum
PIU         -      Project Implementation Unit
p-km        -      passenger-km
PM          -      penetration macadam
RPAP        -      Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
SA          -      Special Account
SOEs        -      statements of expenditure
TA          -      technical assistance
t-km        -      ton-km
TOR         -      terms of reference
voc         -      vehicle operating costs
vpd         -      vehicles per day



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                                            Pge No.
Credit and Project Summary  ...................................  (i)-(iii)
I. ECONOMY AND SECTOR
A. Economy .                   .........................................  1
B.  The Transport Sector  ..................................                                                        2
C.  Previous IDA  Involvement in the Transport Sector  ................    5
D.  Future Planning in the Transport Sector .......................                                                  6
II. ROADS
A.  Network and Traffic    ..................................                                                        6
B.  Administration  and Organization   ...........................    7
C.  Construction  and Maintenance  .............................                                                     8
D.  Planning and Supervision  ................................   10
E.  Expenditures and Financing   ..............................   10
F.  Road Transport  ......................................    12
G.  Environmental Aspects  .................................   12
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives  ....................................    13
B.  Project Description    ...................................   13
C.  Relation to Other Projects in the Sector  .......................   18
D.  Cost Estimates  ......................................   19
E.  Project Financing    ....................................   20
F.  Project Design, Organization  and Implementation   .................   21
G.  Procurement   .......................................   24
H.  Disbursement .......................................   27
I.   Accounting and Auditing  ................................   28
J.   Environment   .......................................   29
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Methodology   .......................................   29
B.  Project Area    .......................................   30
C.  Calculation and Results  .................................   31
D.  Risks  ............................................   31
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ... ...... 32
TABLES
1.1   Transport Investments (US$000 equivalent), 1992-94  ...................    3
1.2  Rail and Waterborne Traffic, 1990-1993   ..........................                                                      4
1.3  Road Vehicle Fleet   .......................................                                                             5
3.1  Project Components and Cost Estimate   ...........................   19
3.2 Financing Plan .                    .........................................  21
3.3  Procurement Arrangement  ...................................   25



2.1    National Road Network  ...................................  35
3.1    Road Improvement Program   ................................  36
3.2    Road Improvement Measures ................................  39
3.3    Equipment to be procured  ..................................  42
3.4    Incremental Operational Costs  ...............................  44
3.5     Consultants for Construction Supervision, and TA and Training - T.O.R.   ...  .  45
3.6    Technical Assistance and  Training  ............................  50
3.7    Project Coordinator - Terms of Reference    .......................  51
3.8     Organization and Management Study - Terms of Reference   .............  54
3.9    GRD and Project Organization    ..............................  58
3.10 Road Improvement Program - Year 1 Defined Roads .60
3.11 Project Implementation Schedule .61
3.12 Project Monitoring Matrix .63
3.13 Schedule of Disbursements .65
3.14 Environmental Assessment .66
4.1 Factors for Selecting Project .68
4.2  Details of the Economic Evaluation .69
5.1 Documentation in Project File .73
CHARTS
1   Organization Chart of the MOC and GRD .74
2   Organization of District Road Directorate .75
MAPS
IBRD 26231 - Project Districts
IBRD 26232 - Tirana and Northern Districts Roads
IBRD 26233 - Durres and Southern Districts Roads
IBRD 26234 - Southeastern Districts Roads
IBRD 26725 - Additional Five Roads
Ml& report wa prepad on the basis of an appraisa mission to Albania in Jhe 1994. The mission wa led by Luis Revuelta
(Tranport Engineer; EC2ET). Mision memben were Meur. Peter Parlker (Trnport Economist; EC2ET), and P. Cher;yan
(FTancial and Managenat Analyst; Consultat). Mr. Floreat del Plchia (Reearch Assstat) cofaborated on the
completion of the appraial documentation at negotiations. The Peer Reviwe are Messrs. Jose Carbajo and Antti Talvitie
(TWUTD). The Division Chief is Mr. Hans J. Apitz (EC2ET), and the Deprtment Director Mr. Kemal DerY4 (EC2DR).



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:                          Republic of Albania.
Beneficiary:                       General Roads Directorate,
Ministry of Construction and Tourism.
Credit Amount:                     SDR 10.1 Million (US$15.00 million equivalent).
Terms:                             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Poverty Category:                  Program of Targeted Intervention (para. 3.01)
Project Objectives and Description:   The main objectives of the project are: (a) to promote
agricultural development by rehabilitating and
maintaining rural roads serving agricultural areas and
to improve access, economic and social services for
rural population centers; (b) to establish the
institutional  and  financial  arrangements  for
administering and maintaining rural roads on a
sustainable basis; (c) to reduce poverty and increase
employment by carrying out project works with labor
intensive methods; and (d) to encourage the
development of the domestic contracting and
consulting industries.
The project includes: (a) improvement of 975 km of
rural roads by contractors using labor intensive
methods (US$24.40 million, excluding contingencies);
(b) provision of office and transport equipment
(US$0.85 million); (c) operational costs (US$0.33
million); (d) supervision of works (US$1.00 million);
(e) technical assistance (TA) (US$0.30 million), a
project coordinator (US$0.40 million), and training
(US$0.20 million) to implement the project; and (f)
an Organization and Management Study (US$0.30
million), including an inventory of the 9,500-km rural
road network and an analysis and definition of the
best  institutional,  managerial,  and  financial
arrangements for its administration.



-ii-
Benefits and Risks:                The GOA has expressed strong interest in the project,
which is expected to play an important role in the
consolidation of a free-market based rural transport
sector. The main project benefits include savings in
vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs.
Unquantifiable benefits include increased development
of agriculture where lack of access has choked
agricultural output, generation of employment,
promotion of domestic contracting, institutional
improvements in road maintenance, better rural
services, and environmental improvement consisting
mainly, but not only, of the reduction of soil erosion.
The project is estimated to have an ERR of about 33
percent.
The main project risks are: (a) GOA does not provide
sufficient funds to maintain the project roads; (b)
GOA fails to implement the necessary institutional
reforms to administer and maintain the rural road
network; and (c) labor intensive road works are
complex. However, GOA has set its budget for
maintaining the main road network above the levels
agreed under the ongoing Transport Project, and will
be asked to agree at negotiations to provide sufficient
funds to maintain the project roads; this would reduce
risk under (a). GOA's recent adoption of legislation
on local government reform, and the establishment of
a task force to address remaining issues would
significantly reduce risk (b). Risk (c) would be
minimized by employing consultants experienced in
labor intensive works. Project risks are considered to
be acceptable with these arrangements. There is a
country risk, the threat of a Balkan war, which cannot
be assessed.
Project II) Number:                8267



Estimated Project Cost               Local      Foreign       Total
and Financing Plan
-US$ Million -
A.  Road Works
Improvement of 975km. of rural roads Oabor      20.74         3.66      24.40
intensive)
B.  Office and Transport Eguipment
Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, tools, and                  0.85       0.85
materials
C.  Operational Costs                                 0.07         0.26       0.33
D.  Supervision of Works under (A) above              0.20         0.80       1.00
E.  Technical Assistance and Training
(i)     Technical Assistance                     0.06         0.24       0.30
(ii)    Project Coordinator                      0.09         0.31       0.40
(iii)    Training                                0.10         0 1        020
Subtotal                                0.25         0.65        0.90
F.  O_anization and Management Study                  0.05         0.25       0.30
Base Cost (A + B + C + D + E + F)               21.31         6.47      27.78
G.  Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                   2.13         0.64       2.77
Price                                            2.25         0.80       3.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  25.69          7.91      33.60
Financing
IDA                                             11.09         3.91      15.00
Italy                                           11.00         4.00      15.00
Government                                       3                       aQ
TOTAL                                  25.69         7.9 1
Estimated (US$ Million) EDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year               1996        1997         1998         1999
Annual                                 2.5          4.5          5.5          2.5
Cumulative                             2.5          7.0         12.5         15.0
(S)                       17           47          83           100
Economic Rate of Return:
33%






I. ECONOMY AND SECTOR
A. Economy
1.01    Economic Developments. Since the presentation of the last Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), Albania has continued to emerge from the deep social and economic crisis that
accompanied the collapse of communism in 1990-92. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew
more than 10 percent in 1993 and 7 percent in 1994, and inflation declined from a peak
annualized rate of 30 percent in mid-1993 to less than 16 percent in 1994. The macroeconomic
program supported by the IMF and the World Bank remains on track. Substantial remittances
from abroad, coupled with the income created by the newly-emerging private sector, fueled an
extraordinary expansion in demand and associated standard of living for Large segments of the
population.
1.02    The very strength of the economic recovery has, however, aggravated the severe
infrastructure bottlenecks which were noted by the CAS to be a major impediment to private
sector development. Bottlenecks are particularly prevalent in transport, electricity distribution,
water supply and sewage and housing. An example of the problem was the electricity crisis
of December 1994, where frequent power outages disrupted economic activity and created
difficult living conditions. Investment flows averaging close to 20 percent of GDP would be
required to rebuild infrastructure and maintain an adequate public investment. The required
level of investment could not be provided under the constraints of the adjustment program during
1993 and 1994, although an important step forward has been achieved with a substantial increase
in public investment in the 1995 budget. The priority given to infrastructure in the 1994 CAS
thus remains fully valid, with emphasis on providing investment capital aid helping to improve
the institutional capacity and market-oriented policy framework. The next three projects that we
plan to present to the Board are in the infrastructure sector, including the present project, a
Power Transmission and Distribution Project, and a Second Transport Project. Overall
performance of the IDA portfolio has been good. Cumulative IDA disbursements have, so far,
been 50 percent ahead of worldwide IDA averages, and the development impact of the portfolio
has met the desired objectives. With one exception, new IDA projects have taken less than three
months on average to become effective. To further strengthen portfolio ownership and
management, a series of annual Country Portfolio Performance Reviews were started in October
1994.
1.03    Agriculture. Agriculture (a principal project beneficiary) accounts for about 50 percent
of GDP. Albania has made extraordinary progress in reforming the sector. Nearly all
cooperative land and state farms have been distributed, creating over 400,000 smallholder farms.
Together with the liberalization of all producer, wholesale and consumer prices, this reform has
resulted in an increase of agricultural output of about 20 percent in 1993. However, the
cropping pattern remains oriented toward satisfying family needs as the newly established private
farmers seek to protect their food security, with little agricultural surplus being marketed to date.
Further reforms are required in the areas of pricing policy, the system of rural credit and land
policy. Inadequate infrastructure is also a serious obstacle to the further development of the
agricultural sector, particularly irrigation facilities and rural roads.  Most rural roads in



-2-
agricultural areas are now in such poor condition due to lack of maintenance that an estimated
400 villages and numerous settlements inhabited by a total of nearly one million people are
inaccessible to motorized vehicle during at least part of the year, as discussed further in Chapter
II.
1.04    Government Decentralization.  In most countries, the responsibility for the
construction and maintenance of rural roads is assigned to local government, since most of the
benefits are local. Albania has taken the first steps to establish and fund local government
authorities. The draft constitution provides for three hierarchical layers: (a) central government;
(b) 36 district governments (the intermediate layer); and (c) numerous local communes and
municipalities. Parliament passed the Law on the Organization and Functioning of Local
Government and the Law of Prefectures, both in 1992, which more or less has established the
three layers of government. The Government has established an Intergovernmental Task Force
on Decentralization to address remaining issues. In particular, they are seeking: (a) to clearly
delineate expenditure assignments, obligations and authorities among various levels of
government; (b) to maintain central quality control in key sectors; and (c) to review the
implications of centralized pricing policies on local government, develop a local government
financing plan, and define the assets which are being transferred to local government. While
some aspects of this process require a country-wide approach, others can be handled on a
sectorial basis, including the technical and administrative arrangements for maintaining rural
roads. To further this process, the project includes a study on organizing the maintenance and
administration of rural roads, as described in Chapter Ill.
1.05    Unemployment and Poverty. The low level of salaries under central planning was
partially compensated for by good overall access to health, education and other social services,
and the quasi absence of open unemployment. With the chaos that followed the transition of
1991-92, access to social services deteriorated, and pockets of extreme poverty have emerged,
especially in remote rural areas. The project is expected to have a significant impact on poverty
because it will be carried out with labor intensive methods in rural areas with a high
concentration of poor people. The Project has been classified as a "Program of Targeted
Intervention' because of its expected impact on unemployment and poverty, as discussed in
Chapter m.
B. The Transport Sector
1.06    System. The transport system is based on: (a) a road network of about 18,000 km,
which is described in Chapter II; (b) a rail network of 447 km of single track main lines plus
273 km of other lines; (c) the main port of Durres with 2,563 m of quays, and secondary ports
of Vlora, Saranda and Shengjini; (d) inland navigation on the Drinit River; (e) a national
shipping fleet of 31 vessels totaling 85,000 dead weight tons, and (f) an international airport at
Tirana with a 2,700 m runway. The transport system is generally adequate in extent, but its
condition has deteriorated to the point where it is significant constraint on the development of
a market economy.



-3-
1.07   Sector Transformation.  Transport demand and supply were both highly distorted
under the previous regime. Like other Eastern European countries, Albania was transport
intensive due in part to the emphasis on mining and heavy industries and to the subsidization of
transport services. The Government required that most goods be carried by the railway, and
goods were moved to or from the railhead by a fleet of small, publicly owned trucks. Private
automobiles were prohibited, as were transport businesses run by the private sector. The
Government invested only around US$30 million per annum (p.a.) in the transport and
communications sectors during 1986-90. Although the previous regime emphasized the railways
and showcase investments, in practice many projects were not completed, construction standards
were low, transport infrastructure was not maintained, and equipment was not replaced when
it was worn out. The Government has since increased investments as indicated in Table 1.1
below.
TABLE 1.1 Transport Investments (US$000 equivalent), 1992-94
1992         1993            1994
Road                     US$ 680        US$700       US$ 2,500
Rail                          260          290             200
Ports                         700           970          1,290
Airports                    -------      -------        --------
Other                                      200           1,710
TOTAL                   US$1,640      US$2,160        US$5,700
Source: MOT
1.08   The GOA has also taken a number of steps since 1991 to establish market-based
policies in the transport sector. The Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade (MOT) has
privatized most of its truck and interurban bus fleet, and removed most land transport
regulations. The GOA has postponed several large investments which appeared uneconomic, and
is using available funds to catch up with the maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure. The GOA also increased road fuel taxes as discussed in Chapter II, and initiated
a program to improve road safety. The Port of Durres is taking steps to establish itself as an
autonomous port and is preparing a port masterplan under the ongoing Transport project. The
goal is to improve port operations, and to operate on a self-financing basis. MOT is further
defining its role in a market-based economy, assisted by project consultants and other advisors.
However, much further work remains to be done; for instance, the institutional, organizational
and technical arrangements for administering and maintaining rural roads must be established.
This is a principal objective of the proposed project.



-4-
1.09   Market reforms have had a significant effect on transport demand. Uneconomic mines
and heavy industries have closed, significantly reducing the demand for rail transport.
Agriculture and small scale commercial activities have grown. Freight volumes are much
smaller and quality requirements higher for these activities, favoring road transport. The
transport sector has been essentially deregulated, private automobiles and transport businesses
are now permitted, and transport subsidies have been reduced. As a consequence of these
changes and the economic slowdown, railway freight traffic has declined to about one-tenth of
the level of the late 1980s. Recent trends for rail and water traffic are as follows (statistics are
no longer available on road traffic due to privatization):
TABLE 1.2 Rail and Waterborne Traffic, 1990-1993
Unit
MODE          (millions)  1990     1991      1992      1993
Freight
Railway         tons      6.6      2.9       0.6        0.6
t-km     584      278        60        54
Water Transport     tons      0.4      0.1       0.1       0.1
t-km      34       10         4        0.8
Passengers
Railway       passengers  11.9      5        2.8        4
p-km      779      317       191       230
Water Transport   passengers   0.2     0.3       0.2       0.1
p-km       5        6         4        0.2
Source: MOr
1.10    Road traffic has grown rapidly; the number of passenger cars has increased more than
25-fold from a low base, and the number of trucks has increased three-fold between 1990 and
1994. (See Table 1.3).



-5-
TABLE 1.3 Road Vehicle Fleet, 1990 - 94
Buses and
Cars     Mini-buses  Trucks    Total
1990 (Public only)    2,362      1,798     13,261    17,421
1992 (November)    18,942       3,819      29,358   52,119
1994 (April)
Public            7,586        2,500     18,912   28,998
Private           53,935       4,298     24,710   82,943
Total             61,521       6,798     43,622  111,941
note: does not include motorcycles, agricultural tractors or trailers.
Source: MOT
Albania now has 18 passenger cars per 1,000 population, which is much lower than other
Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries (e.g. 70 in Rumania, 147 in Bulgaria, 169 in
Poland), but roughly consistent with ownership rates in other low and lower-middle income
countries (e.g., 15 in Thailand; 19 each in Bolivia, Egypt, and the Philippines; 32 in Ecuador).
Future car ownership patterns are expected to more nearly approximate those of other CEE
countries because of Albania's location in Europe, the large supply of inexpensive used vehicles
in adjacent countries, and the expected rapid development of the economy from a low base. In
order to catch up, the car fleet will need to grow at more than double the rate of GNP for at
least the next several years. This kind of growth has been observed in other parts of the world
in earlier years. The Bank forecasts that Albania's GNP will grow 6 percent per year from 1994
to 1997.
C. Previous IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.11    As an immediate response to critical needs, port materials and spare parts, 20 urban
buses, and a small amount of railway communications equipment were included in IDA's first
loan to Albania, the Critical Imports Project (Credit 2404-ALB) in 1992. A loan of US$18
million to the transport sector was subsequently made by IDA in October 1993, together with
the Kuwait Fund and other donors (Credit 2499-ALB). This ongoing Transport Project seeks
to address two important issues: accommodating the increase in road traffic, and determining
the future role of railways. It is IDA's first credit to the transport sector in Albania. The
project includes the improvement of 84 km of main roads, the provision of equipment for the
Tirana road maintenance district, the repair of quays and port surfaces and the provision of
equipment for the port of Durres, technical assistance (TA) to improve the market orientation
of the sector and implement the project, a study and follow-up program to improve road safety,
and a study to determine the future role of Albanian Railways. The civil works and equipment
for the port of Durres are being cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund.



-6-
1.12    Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Implementation was delayed for a
short time by the transfer of the General Roads Directorate (GRD, formerly the National Roads
Directorate) from the Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade (MOT, formerly the Ministry
of Transport and Communications) to the Ministry of Construction and Tourism (MOC, formerly
the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territorial Adjustment). The project has already
achieved results in terms of increasing the road maintenance budget, establishing local/foreign
joint ventures to strengthen the domestic contracting industry, introducing competitive bidding
procedures for the procurement of works and equipment, and expediting the privatization of
MOT truck and bus companies. The main lessons learned are the importance of keeping the
project objectives and design straightforward, and providing technical assistance through
experienced outside advisors that is within the absorptive capacity of the borrower.
D. Future Planning in the Transport Sector
1.13        Government plans for future investments in the transport sector are generally
reasonable in light of the difficult issues involved. The rate of investment will depend on the
availability of funds, although the size of the road problem, including rural roads, far outstrips
investments made to date, as well as the Government's future financial possibilities. In the roads
sector, the principal ongoing or reasonably firm projects include road rehabilitation works and
purchase of maintenance equipment under the ongoing Transport Project, additional maintenance
equipment and buses, a bus administration building for Tirana, and the proposed Rural Roads
Project. The GOA also plans to rehabilitate the Miloti-Yugoslavia (Montenegro) border road.
A decision on the extent and timing of this part of the project will depend on the outcome of
feasibility studies and on the extent of the rehabilitation of the Tirana - Durres - Rrogozhina
railway line. This decision, in turn, depends on the outcome of the railway study (para 1.11).
Road investments are discussed further in Chapter II.
1.14        Port investments include the rehabilitation works and equipment purchased under
the Transport Project, possible construction of a grain silo (which should probably now be
postponed due to a recent decline in grain traffic), and a ferry terminal to accommodate roll on -
roll off traffic, which is growing rapidly. The GOA also plans to improve the main airport at
Tirana, where an investment of about US$15 - 20 million is strongly justified on traffic and
safety grounds.
HI. ROADS
A. Network and Traffic
2.01    There are approximately 18,000 km of roads in Albania. Of these, 2,400 km are
classified as primary and 5,000 km as secondary roads, while 9,500 km are unclassified tertiary
or local (rural) roads. There are also some 1,000 km of urban streets (Annex 2.1). About 90
percent of the primary and 15 percent of the secondary roads are paved. There are a few fully



-7-
engineered gravel roads, but most of the rural roads have a robust but uncomfortable stone-
pitched road base, or are seasonal tracks. The condition of the network varies. The primary
roads are generally in a poor but stable condition, but design standards are outdated, construction
practices are poor, and the roads have not been well maintained, particularly during the last
several years. The secondary and tertiary networks have, for some years, been almost totally
neglected. Many of these roads are passable only to four wheel drive vehicles during the dry
season. It is estimated that there are around 400 villages and numerous settlements in Albania
with a combined population of nearly one million people that are inaccessible to four-wheel drive
vehicles during at least part of the year (para. 1.02). The basic structures of these roads are
modest but usable. Drainage varies widely; in some places it requires only the addition of a few
culverts, while in others it needs to be fully reconstructed.
2.02    The network was designed to carry a small fleet of state owned vehicles, in an era
when there were severe restrictions on personal mobility. The number of registered vehicles has
grown some six-fold during the last four years and is expected to continue growing rapidly
(para. 1.10). Traffic is heaviest on the main roads linking Tirana to Durres, and Durres to the
South (as far as Vlora), with traffic levels ranging from 5,000 to as much as 11,000 vpd.
Traffic on the main road from Tirana to the North now ranges between 2,000 to 4,000 vpd,
while traffic on the main road between Tirana and the East (FYR Macedonia) ranged from 1,000
to 2,500 vpd. Traffic counts carried out by project consultants on 40 representative sections of
secondary and tertiary roads in the project ranged from 60 vpd to a high of 1,670 vpd (excluding
agricultural and animal drawn traffic). Advisors under the Transport Project are assisting GRD
to establish a regular system of traffic counting. Truck sizes have increased from a typical
weight of five tons per single axle to ten tons per single axle on the asphalted roads (often, 11.5
tons as presently authorized in the European Community), and six tons on the rest of the
network. Significant numbers of heavy articulated trucks are now in use, and these are even
appearing on tertiary roads. There are no axle-load limitations at present, and this issue is being
investigated with the assistance of advisors under the Transport Project. As a consequence,
almost all of the paved roads need to be rehabilitated, investments are required to increase
capacity on some sections of primary roads, and sections of the secondary and tertiary networks
require improvement.
B. Administration and Organization
2.03    Administration of the road system is divided between the "national" road network of
7,400 km, 1,000 km of "municipal" roads, and the remaining 9,500 km of "local" roads. As
of December 1994, the primary and secondary roads of the "national" system are administered
by the Ministry of Construction and Tourism (MOC) through the General Roads Directorate
(GRD) in Tirana. GRD was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry, Transport and
Trade (MOT) until December 1993. While final administrative arrangements are still being
refined, GRD has been placed under the Minister of MOC in a similar way to various institutes
which have their own budgets, as shown in Chart 1. Consultants financed under the Transport
Project are presently assisting MOC to further define the responsibilities and organization of
GRD, with a view to establishing a westem style road administration (in the past, GRD



-8-
concentrated primarily on preparing and monitoring multi-year road expenditure plans). GRD's
administration and accounting systems were reviewed and found satisfactory to process
statements of expenditure (SOEs).
2.04    GRD's field organization currently consists of 28 District Road Directorates (DRDs),
corresponding to the 28 former administrative districts in the country. The nation's districts
were recently redrawn, so that today there are 36 administrative districts in Albania. GRD
appoints DRD's managers and approves their budget. Road maintenance activities are
undertaken by the DRDs with a high degree of autonomy. Each DRD has a workshop for
regular repairs and maintenance of equipment, but major overhauls are performed at the central
workshop in Tirana. DRDs are divided into three to five executive units, called crews. Each
crew is directed by an engineer or technician, and is responsible for all routine and winter
maintenance. The organizational structure for a typical district is shown in Chart 2. The DRDs
employed 5,405 persons as of January 1995, including 36 engineers, 327 technicians (often
performing engineer's functions), 70 administrative staff, and 4,972 laborers. The work force,
all Albanian, is competent in traditional engineering disciplines. However, Albania was isolated
for more than 40 years, and road personnel require training in modem approaches to
management, economics, and recent technological developments. Financing for this type of
assistance is being provided under the Transport Project.
2.05    According to the Law No. 7572 on Local Government of June 10, 1992, the remainder
of the road network is the responsibility of the 36 local elected legislative bodies called the
district councils, with the possibility left open for them to delegate further to a commune or
baskia (town) council. Although the legal responsibility for this lowest level of the road system
is clear, the system is not yet implemented. Most of these local roads used to be maintained
by large state farms or cooperatives until they were dissolved. Neither the districts nor the
communes have a budget adequate to meet their responsibilities at present. In addition, they have
insufficient technical capacity and, in matters related to roads, it appears common for the
commune or baskia to approach the DRD for informal technical advice. The Ministry of Local
Government plans to provide the district councils with more realistic budgets for road
maintenance and to arrange with individual communes for local sources of taxation to finance
local road maintenance beginning in 1995, as discussed below.
C. Construction and Maintenance
2.06    New road construction, rehabilitation and upgrading are presently carried out by a
variety of organizations. SmaU and medium works are managed by DRD. The construction
works for the new Tirana - Vora highway are directly administered by a special cell created
within the MOC. Under the Transport Project, rehabilitation works on five road sections are
administered by GRD, with project coordination provided by a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) within the MOT. The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project under the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project, and the proposed Rural Development Project, as well as
various private bodies, are also financing a small amount of tertiary road improvements. IDA
funds are being channeled through the Albania Development Fund operating under the direction



-9-
of a multi-ministerial Steering Committee. The involvement of so many organizations in road
construction is a byproduct of the economic transition. In response to this situation, GRD is
investigating the re-organization of the roads sector with the assistance of consultants financed
under the Transport Project. This study will be complemented by a study on the organization
and management of rural roads under the proposed project, as discussed in Chapter m.
2.07    Prior to 1991, construction was done exclusively by three autonomous state-owned
enterprises, the National Road Asphalting Enterprise under the jurisdiction of the MOT, and the
National Bridge Construction Enterprise, and the Highway and Road Construction Enterprise
under the jurisdiction of the MOC. The Asphalting Enterprise has now formed a joint venture
with an experienced foreign construction firm. These state enterprises are facing a significantly
decreased work load and are being privatized. A small-scale private sector construction industry
is developing that has acquired some limited experience in management and contracting skills,
mostly in private building construction. While company experience in road construction in the
emerging private sector is limited, many of their key staff have extensive experience in road
works from their former employment. In addition, a significant number of Albanians have
practical construction experience from working in other countries. Domestic contractors would
be assisted in improving their skills under the project, as discussed in Chapter III.
2.08   International competitive bidding for road works has been introduced and is already
being applied under the Transport Project. In order to be eligible for road works in Albania,
contractors have to register with MOC. The contractor's technical director is required to be an
engineer with experience in road works. Under the Transport Project, over 60 companies applied
and 41 were prequalified, including state companies in joint ventures with foreign companies.
It appears that the financial, technical, and managerial capacity of more than 20 of these
companies would be sufficient to execute significant improvement contracts, i.e., 20 - 50 km,
under the project and smaller contractors could compete either by forming joint ventures or by
bidding on smaller sized contracts.
2.09    The DRDs execute all the maintenance works on the national road network.
Maintenance works are undertaken by a crew which is responsible for 30 to 50 km of road. The
crews' headmen have long experience and are skilled in the definition and supervision of road
maintenance that has been, up until now, labor intensive. The DRD's maintenance equipment,
e.g., trucks, compactors, asphalt mixing plants, is mostly very old and largely unusable, and the
ongoing Transport Project is financing equipment for the Tirana DRD. Additional maintenance
equipment for other DRDs will be financed under the proposed Rural Roads Project. Private
contractors appear to be bringing in road maintenance equipment as required. There is little
other maintenance equipment available in Albania.
2.10    While many of GRD's roads are continuously maintained, the quality of the works is
not always satisfactory and the work efficiency is low, mainly due to lack of equipment (e.g.,
for compacting) or proper supervision. Bituminous roads are repaired with asphalt concrete,
penetration macadam, or low quality natural bituminous sand. Major repairs are done using
asphalt concrete prepared at a central asphalt batching plant, but not many plants are in working



-10-
order. Bituminous sand is frequently used to fill pot-holes, but compaction is left to the traffic,
which is unsatisfactory. Repair of gravel roads is done sometimes with river gravel but mainly
with crushed gravel, which often is transported over long distances. Grading is generally done
manually, and compaction is left to the traffic. A significant problem arises because of the
standard design of stone-pitched roads. Poor bonding between the stone base and the gravel
surface results in the gravel being quickly lost, especially when placed without compacting. This
problem would be addressed during the Rural Roads Project with the assistance of advisors.
GRD intends to give most periodic maintenance and some routine maintenance work to private
contractors, and is being assisted under the Transport Project to accomplish this task.
D. Planning and Supervision
2.11    The MOC, through GRD, is responsible for planning the main road network, subject
to approval by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Parliament. GRD prepares all engineering
design work with the collaboration of the Institute for Studies and Projects No. 2 (see Chart 1).
Recently, engineering and economics staff have been leaving the government to become private
engineering consultants in competition with government institutes. Road designs have to date
followed those applied in Italy, and are appropriate to forecast traffic flows and physical
characteristics.
2.12    Road works were formerly supervised by the state enterprise which implemented them.
There are currently eight engineering companies registered with GRD to provide design and
supervision services. Of these eight companies, seven are small independent consultants,
consisting of one to two engineers and employing additional staff for specific projects; the
"Institute No. 2" is presently in the process of becoming privatized. Three laboratories currently
provide laboratory services, the Institute for Construction Technology, mainly for construction
materials, the Hydro-geotechnical Institute for earthworks and road base materials, and the
Technical University for a limited number of tests. It is anticipated that supervision consultants
required under the Rural Roads Project would form a foreign/local joint venture, which would
assist in developing the local consulting industry in Albania, as discussed in Chapter III.
E. Expenditures and Financing
2.13    Road expenditures averaged about US$10 million equivalent per year, during the 1980s
based on the official exchange rate, which must be interpreted with caution because of distortions
in the economy and statistics. About 70 percent of this amount was spent on GRD roads and
30 percent on the rest of the network. Around US$ 6.5 million of the total amount was spent
on maintenance with the objective of keeping the roads passable at minimum possible cost.
Maintenance expenditures fell in the late 1980s and early 1990s due to budgetary constraints,
reaching a low of US$3.5 million equivalent in 1992. The GOA then increased its maintenance
budget for GRD roads above the level agreed under the Transport Project. The 1994
maintenance budget is about US$ 8.0 million equivalent, or about US$ 1,100 per kilometer.
This would be sufficient to maintain GRD roads if the road network and GRD equipment were
in good condition, which they are not. Investments are required to catch up with the



-11-
maintenance backlog and to replace old equipment, which is being supported under the
Transport Project and proposed project.
2.14    Almost all of GRD's paved road network (about 2,800 km, Annex 2.1) is in bad to fair
condition (para. 2.01). Rehabilitation of almost all of these roads is likely to be economically
justified, considering that most of these roads carry more than 2,000 vehicles per day, there is
a rapid growth trend for traffic (para. 1.10), and axle loads have recently increased (para. 2.02).
However, this would require an investment of some US$280 million to carry out
(US$ 100,000/km). In addition, some of the paved roads require investments to increase capacity
(town bypasses, climbing lanes, possibly some four-lane construction), local roads need to be
improved, and all roads need to be maintained. Many other countries spend around one percent
of GNP on their road networks, with some spending as much as two percent. Considering
Albania's needs, the Government needs to find a way to spend around US$25 million each year.
(about 2.2 percent of 1993 GNP) on their paved road network. This would permit them to carry
out one cycle of rehabilitation on their paved roads in about 16 years, and to budget US$ 8.0
million per year for road maintenance. This appears to be beyond the GOA's budgetary
possibilities. Most funds would, therefore, need to be provided on concessional terms by the
international financing institutions (IFIs). The Bank intends to raise this issue with the IFIs, and
to consider the preparation of further road projects.
2.15    Road expenditures are funded from the budget. Road fuel was subsidized until 1992.
Category 2 gasoline (supposedly 70 octane, but more typically 55 octane at that time) sold for
about US$ 0.18 equivalent per liter and diesel fuel sold for about US$ 0.12 per liter. The GOA
then increased the quality and price of category 2 gasoline to US$0.70/1 equivalent in 1994,
including a real tax element of about US$0.51/1, and raised the price of diesel fuel to US$0.41
equivalent per liter, including a real tax element of about US$0.23 per liter, exceeding the
amounts agreed under the Transport Project'. The GOA does not presently collect other
significant taxes from road users except vehicle import duties and license fees. MOT is
investigating the establishment of a comprehensive system of road user charges with the
assistance of advisors financed under the Transport Project. The GOA would be asked to agree
at negotiations to allocate funds to maintain rural roads improved under the project, as discussed
in Chapter mI.
2.16    The procedure for approving and using national road funds begins with requests that
are prepared by the planning section of the DRD, and then sent by the DRD to GRD for
approval. GRD assembles and vets these requests, and submits a combined road budget for
approval through MOC and MOF to Parliament. Following adoption of the Government budget,
MOF sends funds for most DRDs to the District Authority Bank and the funds are then
withdrawn by the DRD and used to pay the cost of salaries, materials, and general operations.
The District Authority Bank is used for historical reasons, and this system is subject to review
during the ongoing banking system reforms. In the case of local roads, baskias and communes
it  real tax element defined as the retail price less border price and distribution costs.



-12-
presently receive a small amount of money through the Ministry of Local Government (since
December 1994 incorporated into the Ministry of Internal Affairs), which is under review as
discussed (para. 1.04). The GOA agreed at negotiations to provide sufficient funds and instruct
GRD  to maintain project roads, and to carry out  a study and implement agreed
recommendations on administering and financing all non-GRD roads under the project, as
discussed in Chapter Im.
F. Road Transport
2.17    Under the previous regime, MOT and other Government agencies operated almost all
road vehicles. The GOA then embarked on a privatization program, coordinated by the National
Agency for Privatization. More than two-thirds of Albania's vehicle fleet is now privately
owned. MOT is now close to completing the privatization of its former fleet of around 6,000
vehicles, using a variety of methods. Those which remain operate essentially as private
companies since MOT no longer provides them with any financial support. MOT is working
to overcome the remaining problems such as valuation of assets, requirement to retain all
personnel, lack of knowledge of marketing and business practices with the assistance of advisors
provided by the Netherlands, and under the Transport Project. Other ministries also operated
truck and bus fleets, which were formerly dedicated to organizations belonging to these
ministries, and can be considered as own account transport. Many of the large enterprises to
which these fleets belong are now closed, and the vehicles are in poor condition. A large
number of trucks and buses have also been imported by the private sector since 1990, mostly
used vehicles of western manufacture. There is now sufficient truck capacity in Albania to
transport the nation's agricultural inputs and outputs on the rural roads to be improved under the
project.
2.18    Traffic accidents are becoming an increasingly serious problem, paralleling the rapid
growth of the vehicle fleet. There were 317 highway fatalities during the first ten months of
1993 compared to 145 in all of 1990 (updated statistics not yet available from GRD). This gives
Albania by far the highest road accident rate in Europe, e.g. about 20 times the death rate per
vehicle-kilometer as in Italy. Reducing accident rates requires a multi-disciplinary effort,
including identifying and correcting unsafe places on the roads (black spots), introducing and
enforcing a vehicle inspection system, preventing drunk driving, improving the enforcement of
traffic regulations, improving access to medical help, and education and publicity campaigns.
MOT and GRD are working, in collaboration with the police, on the identification of black
spots, and on channelizing non-motorized traffic and agricultural tractors on the main roads.
An advisor financed under the Transport Project is assisting MOT and other Ministries to define
and implement a program to improve road safety.
G. Environmental Aspects
2.19    The GOA has long recognized the importance of environmental issues, passing
numerous laws and regulations during the last four decades. However, little has been done in
practice, so that rivers, lakes, the Adriatic Sea at river outlets, and air at specific locations are



-13-
highly polluted. The main sources of pollution are mining (erosion and water pollution), heavy
and light industry (water and air pollution), energy (air pollution) and urban areas (sewage).
Air pollution caused by vehicle emissions is not yet a major issue, although this may become
a problem in the future as the fleet continues to expand. The MOT advisors financed under the
Transport Project are making preliminary recommendations concerning vehicle emission
standards and other environmental matters. Steps are also being taken to mitigate any adverse
impact from rural road construction under this project, as discussed in Chapter Im.
HI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01    The Rural Roads Project supports the Country Assistance Strategy for Albania
(reviewed by the Board on March 8, 1994) by rehabilitating public infrastructure that has fallen
into such state of disrepair that it is a major impediment to the development of the local private
sector as well as to foreign direct investment, and by supporting the agricultural sector in which
Albania has comparative advantage. The main objectives of the project are to:
(a) promote agricultural development by rehabilitating and maintaining rural roads
serving agricultural areas, and improve access, economic and social services for
rural population centers;
(b) establish the institutional and financial arrangements for administering and
maintaining rural roads on a sustainable basis;
(c)  reduce poverty and increase employment by carrying out project works with labor
intensive methods; and
(d) encourage the development of the domestic contracting and consulting industries.
The project directly serves an agricultural area of around 150,000 ha with a total of about
425,000 people (19 percent of the rural population of Albania) as discussed in Chapter IV. It
will provide 12,000 man years of work over three years in 20 districts containing 60 percent
(about 168,000) of the nation's unemployment and will create 500 permanent jobs for the
maintenance of its assets. Consequently with these potential achievements, the project has been
rated as "Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Intervention" in accordance with the provisions
of O.D. 4.15, a classification exclusively reserved for projects with strictly direct and strong
impact on the alleviation of poverty.
B. Project Description
3.02    The main thrust of the 1996 - 1998 National Rural Roads Development Program is to
selectively rehabilitate and improve the rural road network, and to establish a satisfactory



-14-
maintenance management system. The Rural (Feeder) Roads Study2, financed by the Swiss
Government with IDA as Executing Agency, has identified a three-year (1996-1998) time slice
(44 months including eight months before 1996 for preparation and mobilization of sub-projects)
in which all sub-projects, subject to confirmation and possible amendment before implementation
takes place, meet agreed selection criteria. The project components are:
(a)  improvement of around 975 km of rural roads by contractors using labor intensive
methods (US$24.40 million, excluding contingencies);
(b) provision of office and transport equipment (US$0.85 million);
(c)  operational costs (US$0.33 million);
(d)  supervision of works by an international team of consulting engineers (US$1.00
million);
(e)  technical assistance (TA) (US$0.30 million), Project Coordinator (US$0.40
million), and training (US$0.20million) to implement the project; and
(f)  an Organization and Management study (US$0.30 million), including an inventory
of the 9,500-km rural road network and an analysis and definition of the best
institutional, managerial, and financial arrangements for its administration.
Project roads have been selected on the basis of their potential for increasing agricultural output,
improving access to rural population centers, and reducing unemployment with the advice and
contribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Labor, and the Ministry of
Transport, as discussed in Chapter IV.
3.03   Improvement of Roads (975 kIn, US$24.40 Million). Eighty five project roads
(Annex 3.1, Nos. 1 through 85) have been selected in fourteen districts (Map IBRD 26231) from
two agricultural regions, the Adriatic coastal plane north (Map IBRD 26232) and south (Map
IBRD 26233) the city port of Durres (Durres, Tirana, Kruja, Laci, Lezha, Shkodra, Kavaja,
Peqini, Lushnja, Fieri and Vlora districts), and the southeastern region (Map IBRD 26234)
around the city of Korca (Korca, Pogradeci and Devolli districts). Five additional economically
justified roads (Annex 3.1, Nos. 86 through 90) have been included in six additional (Topoje,
Hasi, Gramshi, Berati, Skrapar and Saranda) districts (Map IBRD 26725) at the request of GOA.
They are located in areas where poverty, poor access, and lack of alternative investment
possibilities are chronic. All works permitting substitution of equipment for labor, would be
carried out through labor intensive methods, unless otherwise agreed by IDA. This was agreed
at negotiations (para. 5.01(a)). On the few road construction activities less suitable to labor
intensive methods, e.g., compaction of soils and long materials haulages, the use of equipment
will be kept to the minimum to guarantee satisfactory results.
3.04    The roads will be improved according to road, structures, and soil condition, and to
the anticipated volume of traffic. The expected traffic volumes in the year 2000 of over 250,
between 250 and 100, and less than 100 vehicles per day (vpd) have been used to define the road
2/ in its draft Final Report of July 1994 and Supplementary Report of December 1994.



-15-
width (between 6.50 and 5.0m), the carriageway width (between 5.0 and 3.50m), and the type
of surfacing, i.e., penetration macadam (PM) for more than 250 vpd and gravel for the other
roads as detailed in Annex 3.2. Short road sections in high rainfall areas with steep gradients
as well as within towns, will be provided with PM surfaces in order to avoid rapid deterioration.
These paved sections will be observed in order to compare performance, durability and
maintenance requirements with gravel sections in the same conditions, in order to judge cost
effectiveness.
3.05    Forty percent of the 975 km of roads will be improved with a gravel wearing course,
and 60 percent will be paved, with the surface type selected on the basis of economic criteria
as discussed in Chapter IV. Rehabilitated roads usually require regravelling every five years.
In the past, regravelling requirements were not met due to deficient (or non-existent)
maintenance management, and financial constraints (para. 2.01). Once the network of improved
rural roads expands, the backlog of regraveling needs will increase, also leading to more
deterioration of rehabilitated roads. Therefore, an expansion in rehabilitation can be justified
only if the follow up regravelling requirements can be met. To reverse the present trend, the
project will provide funds for routine maintenance equipment (para. 3.06). GOA will provide
sufficient funds, estimated at US$375 per km/year as an absolute minimum for the routine
maintenance of the 975 km. These funds can be provided mainly as part of the revenues
obtained from the fuel tax (para. 2.15). All routine maintenance activities will be carried out
through the length-man system of contracting. Grass cutting, cleaning of culverts and ditches,
patching, and care of edge-planted trees, will be the responsibility of a single man contractor for
every two km of road on average. The single man contractor will receive direct help from the
respective District Road Directorate for periodic regravelling and for asphalt tasks related to the
PM surfaced roads, and in other cases, when required.
3.06    Office and Transport equipment (US$0.85 Million). For a project involving many
dispersed construction sites (90 road sections) and many organizations, adequate transport
facilities and office equipment for efficient project management and monitoring are essential.
Presently, this is not available either in Government institutions or in private sector offices.
Equipment provided for the GDR will include computers and office equipment to allow proper
monitoring and reporting, and supervision vehicles. The DRDs will require computers and other
equipment to allow proper accounting and monitoring of construction activities and the
simultaneous build-up of a road data bank for maintenance, and also will need vehicles (pick-ups
and motorbikes) for supervision of construction works as well as maintenance. The international
and the local consultants will need equipment for construction supervision and technical
assistance including vehicles and motorbikes for supervision, and basic drafting, surveying and
measurement equipment for construction design and supervision. Furthermore, all project
offices should be equipped with basic furniture and communications facilities. Details of
equipment items to be provided and cost estimates are shown in Annex 3.3.
3.07    Operational costs (US$0.33 Million). Due to very restricted budgets provided by the
Government of Albania for operational expenses, the project will also contribute to the following
costs: (a) incremental office operational expenses of the Project Implementation Unit (para.



-16-
3.24); and (b) all DRDs' expenses that are additional to the normal running costs, i.e.,
international communications, office consumable related to the office equipment provided, and
the operational expenses of supervision vehicles and motorbikes (Annex 3.4).
3.08    Supervision of Works (US$1.00 M;llion).  Given that the project will involve the
employment of a number of relatively inexperienced contractors, proper supervision will play
an important role in ensuring that works meet targeted deadlines and are fulfilled according to
planned cost and quality parameters, while at the same time following prescribed labor-intensive
construction methods. Neither local contractors nor GRD/DRDs have the experienced personnel
required. Under these circumstances, an international consulting firm will need to be hired in
order to provide a team of independent engineering supervisors with extensive road building
experience for design and supervision of works. This team should include a Resident Team
Leader (25 man/months) and a Chief Resident Engineer (38 man/months). The Terms of
Reference (TOR) are outlined in Annex 3.5. In total, about 40 contract packages during the
period 1996-1998, scattered across 20 districts, will have to be supervised. Success will require
a strong organizational force. The main tasks of the team will include:
*   define contract packages
*   review prequalification and tender documents
*   advise on evaluating prequalifications, tenders, and on contract negotiations
*   review designs (and confirm traffic) of roads to be improved
*   prepare construction drawings with the contractors
*   supervise construction works (together with the contractors), including quality
control, cost control, measurement, and progress control
*   assist contractors in preparing bills and certifications of bills
*   report to the DRDs, and to the PIU within the GRD
Hiring of the international consultant team of supervisory engineers should be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (para. 5.04).
3.09    The international consultants are expected to associate with and lead local engineers,
so that the project will contribute to the development of local consultants by a step wise
procedure: during the first phase, local engineers will be engaged as individuals for about a year,
receiving training and support in design, supervision, contract management, and management
of a small company, and during the second phase, they will be engaged as local private
independent consulting firms under the leadership of the international consultants. A different
group of local engineers will be made responsible for each of the following three groups of
districts (altogether comprising 230 man/months): (a) Tirana and northern regions (Tirana,
Kruja, Laci, Lezha, and Shkodra, Map IBRD 26232); (b) southern regions (Durres, Kavaja,
Lushnja, Pequini, Fier, and Vlora, Map IBRD 26233); and (c) southeastern regions (Korca,
Pogradeci, and Devolli, Map IBRD 26234) and five additional roads (para. 3.03 and Map IBRD
26725). The local consultants will be responsible for day to day supervision of all construction
works. This will include making all necessary adaptations of the designs to local site conditions.



-17-
3.10 Technical Assistance and Training (TA) (US$0.90 Million). TA and training are
required by the employers (GRD and DRDs), the contractors oocal contractors), and the
engineers (local consulting and individual engineers). In order to assure success, several
additional tasks should be provided by the team of international consultants. These tasks,
defined and detailed in their Terms of Reference (Annex 3.5) are to assist:
* GRD in project management, including development of necessary planning,
monitoring, and management tools
* DRDs in management of contracts, accounting, and assumption of the role of the
Employer
* DRDs in designing and implementing a maintenance concept, and management
system
* local contractors in methods of on site organization, management of labor and
equipment, measurement, and billing
* local consultants in supervision, contract management, and company management
(administration, cost calculation and control, quality assurance).
3.11    The TA described above would require specific training courses as follows: (a) for
GRD -- on the management of contracts (FIDIC), and training in the use of computer facilities,
followed by study tours to western Europe (3 - 10 day tours of 6 persons); (b) for the DRDs --
management of contracts (FIDIC), road maintenance management, accounting and use of
computer facilities; (c) for local contractors -- seminars on bidding procedures and
documentation, use of labor-intensive construction methods, measurement and billing in
contracts, and equipment management; and (d) for the local engineering consultants -- training
in supervision of contracts (measurement and billing, control of cost,quality, and progress) and
in the best ways to build up and manage independent consulting offices. The above TA and
subsequent training will require 13 man/months from the resident international supervisory
consultant team. In addition, 16 man/months of assistance will be provided by short term
specialists who will provide assistance in accounting, special aspects of contracting (e.g. use of
FIDIC for claims), site assistance for contractors, formation and management of consulting
companies, road maintenance management, and technical matters (pavement technology, erosion
protection, small structures, etc.). Details of this training and related estimated costs are
provided in Annex 3.6.
3.12   The project also requires a Project Coordinator (para. 3.25). The position will cover
44 months of the project, and will commence 8 months before the physical start of the project
to allow timely preparation of works. The Project Coordinator will be supported by professional
and supporting staff, and will receive advice and support from the specialists of other
departments within GRD and from the international (supervision) consultants. The TOR for this
position are included in Annex 3.7. The appointment of the Project Coordinator, a condition
of Board presentation, was approved on May 1, 1995 (para. 3.25 and para. 5.03).
3.13    Organization and Management Study (US$0.30 M;llion).  GRD is the only
organization capable of managing and maintaining project roads until permanent administrative



-18-
and financial arrangements are established. The 36 new Administrative Districts have been
made legally responsible for the approximately 9,500 km of roads which are not administered
by GRD, excluding urban streets and roads directly administered by forestry or industrial
enterprises, but lack funds and technical expertise to do the work (para. 2.05).
3.14    The purpose of the Organization and Management Study will be to identify and
inventory the non-GRD road network, and to analyze, recommend and prepare to implement the
most appropriate system for assuring its administration, financing and maintenance. The study
will determine whether the best solution is to decentralize responsibilities to the communes or
an association of communes (decentralized solution), or centralize responsibility under GRD,
e.g., through a sub-directorate for rural roads (centralized solution). Other possibilities include
a mixture of GRD and main commune responsibilities, or to have GRD only intervene in the
most difficult tasks and provide technical assistance to the communes.  The Study
(30man/months) will: (a) identify the non-GRD road network; (b) review existing arrangements
for managing non-GRD roads; (c) assess the capacity of GRD to administer additional roads;
(d) assess the capacity of the Districts and representative Communes for maintaining non-GRD
roads; (e) review the role of central Government for funding the maintenance of non-GRD roads;
(f) assess the availability of local contracting capacity; (g) recommend the most cost effective
means of maintaining the non-GRD network; (h) develop structures, job classifications, staffing
requirements and the levels of authority for the DRDs and/or other responsible organizations;
(i) determine training and interim institutional requirements; (j) inventory the non-GRD road
network; (k) define work methods, prepare an indicative work program and determine budgetary
requirements and financing sources for each responsible organization; (1) review legal
instruments and propose necessary changes; and (m) prepare a practical implementation plan for
review and decision by Govemment. The TOR for the Organization and Management Study are
provided in Annex 3.8. The Government agreed at negotiations to complete an action plan not
later than July 31, 1997, and to carry out such a plan to improve the administration and
maintenance of non-GRD roads, including implementing the recommendations of the
Organizational Management Study as agreed with IDA.
C. Relation to Other Projects in the Sector
3.15    Other World Bank Group projects with road sector components are also operating in
Albania, namely: (a) the Rural Poverty Alleviation project (RPAP); (b) the Irrigation
Rehabilitation project (IRP); and (c) the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
projects. The RPAP and IFAD projects have objectives more directed to immediate social
support and their roads programs are operating on smaU tertiary Oocal) roads within communes,
presently in areas not covered by the Rural Roads Project. Therefore, no requirement of direct
coordination or cooperation will arise in those cases. The IRP, effective since November 1994,
is financing some access roads for machinery and equipment to irrigation works. Since these
roads carry almost no other traffic, special coordination with the Rural Roads Project is not
required.



-19-
D. Cost Estimates
3.16    The estimated total cost of the project, including taxes and physical and price
contingencies amounts to US$33.6 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of
about US$7.91 million equivalent or 24 percent of total project cost. The costs of the different
project components are detailed in their specific paragraphs (paras. 3.02 through 3.13, and 3.18)
and subsequent Annexes. A summary of these project components and cost estimates is given
in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1 Project Components and Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Component                Local   Foreign    Total  F.C.(%)
A.     Road Works
Improvement of 975Km. of
rural roads Oabor intensive)  20.74     3.66    24.40     15
B.      Office and Transport
Equipment
Equipment, vehicles, spare             0.85      0.85     100
parts, tools, and materials
C.     Operational Costs            0.07       0.26      0.33     100
D.      Supervision of Works (A)    0.20       0.80      1.00     80
above
E.     Technical Assistance and
Training
(i)  TA                     0.06       0.24      0.30     80
(ii) Project Coordinator    0.09       0.31      0.40     80
(ii) Training               0A 0       010  0 .20         50
Subtotal                  0.25       0.65      0.90
F.      Organization and            0.05       0.25      0.30     80
Management Study
Base Cost
(A+B+C+D+E+F)            21.31       6.47     27.78
G.     Contingencies
Physical (10 percent)       2.13       0.64      2.77
Price                       2.25        0 8U
TOTAL                    2791    2L&                    24



-20-
3.17   Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from engineering designs already
prepared by consultants and estimated at December 1994 unit costs. The foreign component is
estimated from a breakdown of cost elements. The local costs include taxes and duties estimated
at about 5 percent of total costs. Costs of equipment and vehicles (exempt from import taxes
and duties) and their operational costs, are based on the latest acquisitions under the Critical
Imports Project (Credit 2404-ALB), the ongoing Transport Project, and on similar deliveries in
the region.
3.18    Supervision of works requiring 63 man/month from international consultant team at
about US$10,000 m/rn and 230m/m from local consultants at about US$2,000 equivalent per
m/m, amounts to about 4 percent of the construction cost, a reasonable amount in works with
such a complex management organization. Costs for the 29m/m for technical assistance, 40m/m
for project coordinator, and 30m/m for the Organization and Management Study are based on
an average of US$10,000 per m/m. These costs are in line with those of similar ongoing
operations in neighboring countries, and with those of the ongoing Transport Project. Costs for
training in the GRD and DRDs (50 m/m) and for training local contractors and consultants (50
m/m) are estimated at US$2,000 per m/m, taling into account that most activities would consist
of in-house training and that the most expensive item in international training, traveling, would
mostly take place inside Europe and would be relatively inexpensive. The technical assistance,
training, and O&M study costs are exempt from taxes and duties.
3.19    A physical contingency of 10 percent has been included for all components to cover
possible increases in quantities. This amount is appropriate given the simple but quite precise
primary engineering designs available for the road works. Price contingencies have been applied
to base costs, expressed in US$ in accordance with Bank Guidelines for each year 1995 through
1998, as follows: 2.0, 2.5, 2.7, and 2.5 percent.
E. Project Financing
3.20    The Borrower would be the Republic of Albania. The IDA would provide a credit of
US$15.00 million equivalent (44.5 percent of total project cost), and the Government of Italy
a Lira 24.80 billion or US$15.0 million equivalent (44.5 percent of total project cost) untied
loan. The GOA will contribute, exclusively in local costs, US$3.60 million equivalent or 11
percent of the total project cost, i.e., the US$1.20 million annual amount which is all that it can
afford to budget under current economic conditions. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it will meet these local costs (para. 5.01(g)). A proposed financing plan, based
on the above assumptions, and confirmed with the Government at negotiations (para. 5.01(h))
is shown in Table 3.2 below.



-21-
Table 3.2 Financing Plan
(including Contingencies)
(in US$ million)
Component           Local    Foreign     Total  GOA   IDA   Italy
A. Road Works
Improvement of 975 Km. of
Roads (labor intensive)     25.05       4.46    29.51    3.60  10.91  15.00
B. Office and Transport
EAuivment
Equipment, vehicles, spare
parts, tools, and materials             1.03     1.03          1.03
C. Operational Costs         0.08       0.32     0.40          0.40
D. Supervision of Works (A)
above                        0.22       0.99     1.21          1.21
E. Technical Assistance and
Trainin2
(i) TA                       0.07      0.29      0.36          0.36
(ii) Project Coordinator     0.10       0.39     0.49          0.49
(ii) Training                0.11       0.13     0.24          0.24
(iii) Organization and
Management
Study               0.06       0.30     0.36           0.36
Total            25.69       7.91    33.60    36.
3.21    In addition, GOA is expected to contribute US$2.75 million equivalent over the five-
year period 1997 to 2001 from budget allocations for financing of routine maintenance activities
on the 975 km. of roads covered by the Rural Roads Project. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from GOA that sufficient budgetary allocations would be made to GRD for the
maintenance of rural roads in its budget in line with the agreed upon schedule for the 1997-2001
period, namely the equivalent of US$450,000 in fiscal year 1997, US$500,000 in FY1998,
US$550,000 in FY1999, US$600,000 in FY2000 and US$650,000 in FY2001 (para. 5.01(i)).
F. Project Design, Organization and Implementation
3.22    Design.  Road designs have traditionally been for very low  levels of traffic,
construction practices of poor quality, and maintenance inadequate, as discussed in Chapter II.
The design approach for all project roads investigated has been to make maximum use of the
existing structures and to propose well known construction methods which require a minimum



-22-
of equipment, and a maximum of local labor and local materials. This approach reduces
technical risks during improvement. However, the outline design will require detail adaptation
during construction, hence the importance of selecting competent teams for project coordination
and supervision.
3.23    Organization. Based on the present organizational set-up of the Albanian road
administration, the implementation of the project will be organized through the GRD and its
DRDs under the MOC. GRD will be responsible for all central functions of the project and
DRDs for the execution of works within their respective districts (Annex 3.9 GRD and Project
Organization). The Organization and Management Study (para. 3.13 above) will advise on the
future organization and responsibilities for the whole rural road network, i.e., the fact that the
districts and communes should have a budget appropriate to fulfill their responsibilities, and how
their technical capacity should be established or provided by GRD.
3.24   Implementation Approach and Schedule. The proposed IDA credit of US$15.00
million equivalent, and the Italian loan of Lira 24.80 billion or US$15.00 million equivalent,
will be made to the GOA. The GRD will be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project through a five-member Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in GRD under
the chairmanship of H.E. the Ministry of Construction. The members of the PIU will include
the aforementioned Chairman, GRD's Director General, a representative of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, MOF, and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry
of Labor. All project policy issues will be discussed and, in principle, decided by the PIU
Board. Establishment and staffing of the PIU, a condition of negotiations, took place through
MOC's Ministerial Order No. 648 of March 3, 1995 (para. 5.02).
3.25    The PIU would be assisted in its day-to-day implementation work by an operations
Secretariat in the GRD Foreign Aid Department including a Secretariat Chief (Engineer),
Secretary (Economist), and an Accountant, all from GRD's staff. An important fourth member
of and advisor to the Secretariat would be the Project Coordinator, an expatriate contract
management specialist who, along with the other members of the Secretariat, would be supported
by GRD specialists from other departments and by the international consultants. The Project
Coordinator will work and report on a day-to-day basis within the Secretariat but will be
eventually responsible before PIU's Chairman, the GRD's Director General. The main tasks
of the Project Coordinator and the PIU Secretariat would be:
* project coordination, liaison to the Government, IDA, consultants and DRDs
* planning of works and budgeting
* resource allocation
* selection, negotiation/award of contract to the international consultant team and
assistance to the consultants in administrative matters
* finalization of prequalification and tender documents
* issue of guidelines for prequalification and tendering to the DRDs
* preparing overall project accounts
* monitoring of progress, quality and financial performance



-23-
* reporting (quarterly) to the Government and IDA
* technical services to DRDs
The PIU's Secretariat Chief will be deeply involved in the 8-month preparation phase (para.
3.29) of the project. Its establishment and staffing, a condition of negotiations, took place on
March 3, 1995 through MOC's Ministerial Order No. 648 (para. 5.02). The appointment of the
Project Coordinator, a condition of Board presentation, was approved on May 1, 1995 (para.
5.03).
3.26    The project will be implemented at the district level through the DRDs. DRD
involvement is essential because they have experience in road works and labor-intensive
maintenance in their respective districts, and because the project roads are or will be part of the
network that they maintain in the future. The works will be executed with the DRDs as
"Employer", the private contractors as "Contractor", and the international consultants in
collaboration with local consultants as "Engineer". The tasks of the DRDs will include:
* project implementation at the district level
* prequalification of contractors
* tendering, tender evaluation and award of contracts
* approval of changes in construction matters (alterations of design/quantities,
extension of time, termination, etc.)
* inspection of operations, materials and works
* contract payments to contractors as certified by the Engineer
* monitoring of progress and actions of the Engineer
* accounting of project expenses
* reporting on progress and finances to the Project Coordinator
3.27    The road works component will start with a one-year pilot phase at reduced targets of
160-km (already selected, in principle) on fifteen roads in five districts (Durresi, Fieri, Lushnja,
Laci, and Tirana) (Annex 3.10, Road Improvement Program - Year 1 Defined Roads) followed
by a GOA/IDA review and evaluation towards the end of the first year, and not later than March
31, 1997. The review and evaluation shall be done on the basis of the results obtained in the
following project aspects: (a) prequalification and bidding procedures; (b) performance of GRD,
DRDs, and consultants; (c) progress and quality of works; and (d) overall evolution of project
costs. This approach will allow weaknesses in the implementation arrangements to be identified,
and experience will be gained with the organizational, managerial, and technical procedures.
Suitable modifications will be introduced in the following two years of construction, on the basis
GOAtIDA review. The list of roads to be built in the first year (1996) of the project was agreed
at negotiations (para. 5.01(k)).
3.28   Intemational consultants assisted by local consultants, under the conditions formulated
in para. 3.08, will be employed in the position of Engineer to assist GRD under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (TOR in Annex 3.5). Procurement of equipment and vehicles, and
TA and training will be under the direct responsibility of GRD and coordination of the PIU,



-24-
following submission to IDA, for review and approval, of the related documents and evaluation
of the proposed experts. During negotiations (para. 5.01(1)), agreement was reached with GOA
on the TORs for: (a) Engineering supervision of road works, Annex 3.5; (b) Project
Coordinator, Annex 3.7; and (c) the Organization and Management Study, Annex 3.8.
3.29    An eight-month project inception phase will be implemented May-December 1995
before physical execution of road works starts in January 1996. It will include operational start
of the PIU with the Project Coordinator in May 1995, followed by procurement and mobilization
of the intemational engineer consultant team, procurement and delivery of office and transport
equipment, build up of local consultants, and preparation of documentation for road works
contractors prequalifications and bidding.
3.30   IDA has begun involvement in transport activity recently in Albania, which implies a
lack of transport sector implementation profiles for the country.  However, based on
achievements of similar projects and conditions in Albania and the region, it is estimated that
finalization of the prequalification and tender documents process to complete project set-up and
mobilization of road works would require a period of eight months (May-December 1995) with
intense involvement of the PIU and the project coordinator. Therefore, physical execution of
the successive (1996-98) three one-year road works programs will start in January 1996.
Acquisition and delivery of the most urgent office and transport equipment will take place within
the eight-month period, i.e., before December 31, 1995. The technical assistance and training
component will take place throughout the entire three year period in order to provide steady
advice to GRD, and DRDs, and the local contractors and consultants, and to avoid disruptions
in project implementation due to excessive staff diversion resulting from fast training. The
Organization and Management Study will be completed during the second year of project
implementation, when a good knowledge of the reality of physical execution of road
improvements and local governance involvement possibilities are already available.
3.31    The implementation schedule for project activities is shown in Annex 3.11. Credit
effectiveness is expected in early second quarter 1995, the start of project preparation and
mobilization is planned for May 1995, physical implementation will begin in January 1996, and
the project will be completed on December 31, 1998, with the proposed credit closing six
months later on June 30, 1999. DRDs will report monthly to PIU on their project activities, and
PIU will submit quarterly reports to the IDA detailing the implementation of every project
component activity on the basis of the DRDs' reports and based on the monitoring indicators
detailed in Annex 3.12 (Project Monitoring Matrix). During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the project implementation schedule (including, specifically,
completion of the Organization and Management Study during the second year of project
implementation), monitoring criteria, and reporting arrangements (para. 5.01(m)).
G. Procurement
3.32    The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.3. The cofinanciers, under joint financing applying IDA's procurement



-25-
procedures, will be the GOA and the Government of Italy. The cofinanced project costs are
shown in the column marked N.I.F. (non- IDA financed).
Table 3.3 Procurement Arrangement
(US$ million)1
Total
Project Element                 ICB        LCB         Others       N.I.F.2        Cost
A. Road Works
Implementation of 975 Km. of roads                   29.51                     18.60        29.51
(labor intensive)                                   (10.91)                                (10.91)
B. Office and Transport EQuipment
Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, tools and    0.80               0.233                      1.03
materials                                (0.80)                  (0.23)                     (1.03)
C. Operational Costs                                              0.403                      0.40
(0.40)                    (0.40)
D. Supervision of Works (A) above                                 1.214                      1.21
(1.21)                    (1.21)
E. Technical Assistant and Training
(i) TA                                                            0.364                      0.36
(0.36)                    (0.36)
(ii) Project Coordinator                                          0.494                      0.49
(0.49)                    (0.49)
(iii) Training                                                    0.244                      0.24
(0.24)                    (0.24)
F. Orzanization and Manazement Study                              0.364                      0.36
(0.36)                    (0.36)
Total                       0.80       29.51         3.29         18.60        33.60
(0.80)    (10.91)       (3.29)                    (15.00)
Note:    Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed under IDA Credit.
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Non-IDA financed. Also to be procured by LCB according to IDA guidelines.
3/ Direct Contracting (50 percent) and LS (50 percent). Local Shopping (LS) contracts below US$50,000.
and maximum aggregate US$300,000.
4/ Consulting Services according to Bank Guidelines.



-26-
3.33   The road works contracts would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 1992, by Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures, with foreign firms allowed to participate. LCB is the most efficient
and economic way of procuring these works which by their nature (small contract value,
scattered geographically, labor intensive, local prices below international markets) are unlikely
to attract foreign competition. Contractors for contracts estimated above US$250,000 will be
prequalified, those for contracts estimated at US$250,000 and below, postqualified. Contracts
exceeding US$250,000 equivalent will be pre-reviewed by the Association. The road works
contracts will start in 1996 with a one-year pilot phase of about 160km (para. 3.27) divided into
seven contract packages in five districts, as specified in Annex 3.10. The contracts range from
Lek 2.6 million (US$26,000 equivalent) for contract 19 Kav 14 (Kavaje-Momli; 1.6 km.) road
to Lek 113.1 million (US$1,130,000 equivalent) for contract 2 Fie 21 (Varibopi-Gorishova; 34.2
km.). Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works by LCB for contracts above
US$250,000 equivalent (documents dated July 1994), and contracts for US$250,000 equivalent
and below (documents dated June 1994) will be used. The contract packages for years 1997 and
1998 will be defined based on experience and best practices gained during the 1996 pilot phase.
It is expected that numerous local contractors, most of them proceeding from recently
commercialized and privatized state-owned companies into the private sector would be highly
competitive with their country experience, low wage costs, and new financial status. The
provision of training for GRD, DRDs and local contractors and consultants will further enhance
their experience, efficiency and competitiveness.
3.34    Equipment and vehicles for contracts estimated US$50,000 and above (Annex 3.3)
would be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated May 1992.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods by ICB, dated May 1994
will be used (estimate of seven contracts ranging from US$60,000 to US$120,000). Goods
manufactured in Albania would be granted a preference of 15 percent or related duties,
whichever is less, provided that the value added in Albania is more than 20 percent. Items of
equipment, spare parts, tools, and materials, and those for operational costs (para. 3.07),
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each (total estimated aggregate cost of
US$300,000, Table 3.3) would be procured by Local Shopping (L.S.) with a minimum of three
quotations from three different suppliers. Proprietary spare parts (total estimated at US$300,000,
Table 3.3) would be procured directly from original suppliers. All contracts estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or more, and contracts for goods procured under direct contracting, would
be subject to IDA's prior review and approval of procurement documentation. These limits
would result in prior review of contracts representing 80 percent of the credit component. The
other contracts would be subject to ex-post review after award of contract.
3.35    Consulting services, TA and Training will be carried out by qualified and experienced
consultants selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981). Consulting services for supervision of construction works, the Organization and
Management Study (Table 3.1, and para. 3.18), and the Project Coordinator will be carried out
by intemational consulting firms. TA and training activities will be contracted on the basis of
a selected list of qualified consulting firms and/or individual consultants (details in Annexes 3.5
and 3.6). All TORs documents related to procurement of consulting services would be subject
to prior review and approval by the Association. Consultants' contracts exceeding US$50,000



-27-
equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval. This was discussed and agreed
at negotiations (para. 5.01(n)).
3.36     A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed. However, for
the IDA-financed portion of the project, the Borrower would follow procedures consistent with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 3.11, page
2) includes a procurement plan indicating major items, costs, methods of procurement, and time
schedule for all major procurement activities.
3.37     Procurement would be a main responsibility of the PIU (para. 3.25) and of its Project
Coordinator specialist financed under the project. Procurement information provided to IDA
would include: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information; (b) comprehensive
explanation of revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (c) revised
timing of procurement action (including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion
time for individual contracts); and (d) compliance with aggregate limits on p-;ecified methods of
procurement. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on all
procurement arrangements (para. 5.01(o)).
H. Disbursement
3.38     The proposed IDA Credit, SDR 10.1 million or US$15.0 million equivalent, would be
disbursed against the project components as follows:
Amount
US$ (SDR)    Pett Of
Catgory      Dacnp0on                     Million     Eqadt
Equiv.    to be fimeubd
1.      Roadworks                     10.5       90 percent
(7.04)
2.      Goods                          1.0       100 percent of fbreign expenditures, 100 percent of
(0.68)    local expenditures, (ex-factory co"), an 80 percent of
local expenditures for other items procured localy.
3.      Operatonal Costs               0.4       100 percent
(0.27)
4       Com_ants
(a) Supervision of            1.0       100 percent
Works                     (0.68)
(b) TA and Training           0.8       100 percent
(0.54)
(c) Organization and          0.3       100 percent
Management                 (0.21)
Study
S    U                                 1.0
(0.68)
TlOTAL              15.0
(10.1)



-28-
3.39   Disbursements against contracts for civil works and goods, valued at less than
US$250,000 and US$50,000 respectively, would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOE). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govemment that
documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs would be maintained by the
Borrower and made available for review by IDA supervision missions in addition to being
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Association (para. 5.01(p)).
3.40   Retroactive financing up to a total of US$100,000 is recommended for payments made
by the Borrower after April 30, 1995, but before the date of credit signature. This would allow
an early start on some critical items during the inception phase, such as the hiring of the Project
Coordinator for the PIU, and the acquisition of essential office equipment.
3.41    To facilitate disbursements and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, IDA's
share of the project would be financed through a Special Account (SA; revolving fund) which
would be opened by the Borrower in the Bank of Albania. The authorized allocation for the SA
would be US$1.4 million, equivalent to about four months of project expenditures financed by
IDA during the 3 years and 8 months (44 months) disbursement period for the project.
However, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the authorized allocation shall be limited
to US$800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR3,000,000. Funds for equipment, vehicles, and spare parts would be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the SA after approval of the ICB, local shopping, or direct
contracting and related contract awards by the Association. Replenishment for technical
assistance and for consultants for construction supervision would be made on the basis of
appropriate documentation. Replenishment of the SA would follow IDA procedures. The SA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government on the establishment and operation of the SA in
accordance with the Albanian Treasury regulations, agreed with IDA, which require the
establishment of the SA in the Bank of Albania by the Treasury, the Treasury authorizing any
payment into a commercial bank account managed by the PIU upon PIU's request to pay the
expenditures under the project (para. 5.01(q)).
3.42   A schedule of disbursements, based on the Project Implementation Schedule (para.
3.30) is given in Annex 3.13. Albania is a new IDA member, with only the first activities of
the Transport Project yet under implementation. Thus, there are no sectoral disbursement
profiles available. However, the interest demonstrated by the Government and responsible
agency GRD in the project, the urgency of the need of the works, equipment and TA, and the
initial favorable disbursement under the ongoing Transport Project would guarantee a reasonable
project implementation period of 44 months. With an early second quarter 1995 credit
effectiveness date and a May 1, 1995 through December 31, 1998 project implementation period
(para. 3.30 and Annex 3. 11), the proposed credit would be fully disbursed six months later on
June 30, 1999.
I. Accounting and Auditing
3.43   Starting in May 1995, GRD would establish separate accounts through its PIU in
accordance with acceptable accounting principles, record all project expenditures and maintain



-29-
records on commitments, reimbursements, and the status of project funds on the basis of the
accounting done and released by every DRD. With respect to the amounts withdrawn on the
basis of SOEs, GRD would maintain records on contracts, invoices, and evidence of payments
readily available for review. All records would also reflect adequately the different contributions
from the cofinanciers and the Govemment. GRD would submit to IDA a brief update of these
accounts in the quarterly reports (para. 3.31). The PIU Secretary would have the project
accounts, including SOEs, and the Special Account (para. 3.41), audited by an independent
auditor (ikely together with other IDA projects in order to achieve lower audit costs) acceptable
to IDA, and would submit annually to IDA such audit accounts within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. These requirements were agreed on with the Government at negotiations (para.
5.01(r)).
J. Envirornent
3.44    The project has been classified as "B" for purposes of O.D. 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment, meaning that only limited environmental review is required.  A thorough
environmental assessment was conducted, comprising the direct and indirect environmental
impacts of rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance operations. Annex 3.14 contains a
summary of the main results. Recommendations of the assessment, detailing the mitigation
measures to be taken, would be integrated into GRD's rural road planning design and works
execution activities during project implementation.
3.45    The project would not have significant indirect effects on the environment. Civil works
are confined to rehabilitating existing roads. This should lead to a cleaner environment for the
population living in settlements along the roads, as well as improve the delivery of social
services, i.e., health care (hospitals, dispensaries), education (schools), water supply (easier
access), fuel (delivery of gas instead of an ongoing deforestation process through the cutting of
local wood), trade (easy access to markets), and urban crossing (PM for road sections through
villages). The project would protect the areas adjacent to the roads from erosion through
construction of side-drains, cross drainage structures, and retaining walls, and planting of
vetiver. No population resettlement would be necessary since the right of way of the roads is
clear of housing construction. Furthermore, all road improvements would take place within the
public right-of-way for which the Government has full ownership. The project would not affect
any archaeological or historical site.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Methodology
4.01    Economic rates of return (ERRs) and net present values (NPVs) were estimated for
the road improvements included in the project which comprise 90 percent of project costs
including contingencies. The calculations were based on a vehicle operating cost (VOC)
approach.
4.02    The project area and roads were selected to have the maximum impact on agricultural
output and to improve access to rural population centers.  Complementary irrigation
improvements will be carried out in some agricultural areas under the Irrigation Development
Project. Most project roads are in "poor" or 'bad" condition, which is a desincentive for



-30-
farmers to commercialize their production. In addition many farmers, particularly those from
broken up state farms, are housed in apartment blocks in artificial villages which are often many
kilometers distant from the land which they are now cultivating. Complementary investments and
actions are normally required to increase agricultural output, and the absence of any significant
one of these could impede the development of the sector. This may include, in addition to road
investments, irrigation improvements, clarification of property rights, an agricultural credit
system, and suitable extension services. It is not possible to evaluate the economic benefit of
any one of these complementary inputs in isolation, although in the correct combination the
combined benefit may be significant. The main complementary investments in the agricultural
project areas have been provided under the Irrigation Development Project. However, it is not
possible to estimate the "producer's surplus" which could be separately attributed to the road
investment under this project because of its complementary nature. The VOC approach, which
was used in its place, significantly understates the importance of the project to the development
of the agriculture sector.
4.03    The project is also expected to have other benefits which are difficult to quantify. One
of the main purposes of the project is to increase employment (para. 3.01). The project, through
the increase of agricultural production and subsequent employment, and through the direct
creation of 12,000 man-years of work (road construction) over three years and 500 permanent
jobs (road maintenance) will have a significant beneficial impact on the alleviation of poverty
and on the decrease of outward migration in an area of 20 districts containing 60 percent (about
168,000) of Albania's total unemployment (para. 3.01). It will also help reduce rural poverty,
improve access to rural population areas, help with local Government reform by establishing an
administrative and financial system for maintaining all rural roads, encourage the development
of the domestic contracting industry, and help reduce soil erosion. The ERR estimates,
therefore, significantly understate the contribution of the project to Albania's economic
development.
B. Project Area
4.04    Project roads were selected in three stages. First, two project areas were identified on
the basis of their potential for increasing agricultural output. Second, project roads were chosen
within the two areas on the basis of their estimated ERRs. Third, road sections providing access
to other rural district centers were added to achieve geographic balance at GOA's request (para.
3.01). Factors considered in selecting project areas were the current volume of agricultural
production, the amount of arable land, population, unemployment, the number of persons
receiving economic assistance, and proposed complementary investments (primarily irrigation
improvements), as shown in Annex 4.1. Forestry areas were not included in the project on the
grounds that they could be more suitably improved under an integrated forestry project. Areas
where other rural road improvements are underway were mostly excluded to avoid duplication
and confusion about institutional arrangements. The highest priority area was identified as the
coastal plains, comprising the main agricultural areas in the new districts of Shkodra/Malesia
e Madhe, Lezha, Laci, Kruja, Durres, Tirana, Kavaja, Peqini/Elbasani, Lushnja,
Fieri/Mallakastra and Vlora. These districts provide about 63 percent of the Albania's
agricultural output, include 58 percent of the country's population, and account for 56 percent
of the Government's social assistance program (Annex 4.1). As noted, many of the road



-31-
improvements in this area complement irrigation improvements being made under the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project. A second important agricultural area comprises the interior districts of
Pogradeci, Korga, and Devolli. This area accounts for 11 percent of agricultural value, 9 percent
of the population, and 5 percent of the Government's social assistance program.
C. Calculation and Results
4.05    The economic rates of return (ERRs) from improving 90 road sections included in the
project were estimated using the Bank's HDM Im model. The model's equations were adjusted
to reflect the high levels of roughness encountered. Present traffic levels were estimated on the
basis of traffic counts and the size of the agricultural area and population served. Traffic was
forecast taking into account the current (low) rate of motorization in Albania, recent (high)
traffic growth rates, motorization rates in other countries, and the expected growth of GDP, and
forecasts of increases in agricultural output in the project area. Vehicle operating costs were
estimated on the basis of international norms adjusted for local income levels. Construction cost
estimates were adjusted to remove taxes. Costs were shadow priced to reflect the high level of
unemployment, and the higher world price of bitumen. Road maintenance costs were taken into
account. The analysis was based on a ten year period, with the residual value of the investments
taken into account. Details of the economic evaluation are shown in Annex 4.2.
4.06    The ERR for road improvements are estimated to range from 11 percent to 140 percent
with a weighted average of 33 percent (Annex 3.1). The corresponding net present value (NPV)
at a 12 percent discount rate is estimated to be US$19.9 million (US$20,400/kin). If project
costs are underestimated by 25 percent (e.g., if labor costs increase), then the ERR would be
26 percent (NPV: US$ 16.9 million). If benefits are 25 percent less than expected (e.g., if the
operating costs of mostly old vehicles are substantially overestimated and traffic grows much less
than expected) then the ERR would be a still satisfactory 22 percent (NPV: US$ 11.5 million),
and the ERRs for about 252 km would fall below 10 percent. Traffic counts for marginal roads
would be updated if necessary, and cost estimates refined during project implementation to
assure that estimated ERRs for all road sections are above 10 percent (see below). The project
is, therefore, considered to be economically justified.
4.07    The economic evaluation was based on an assumed work program of 975 km (Annex
3.1). The Government agreed on the first year program at negotiations (para. 3.27). The list
of roads and design standards for the subsequent year would be defined and agreed during
project implementation. The GOA also agreed at negotiations that it will not undertake any
rural road investments under the project unless they are demonstrated, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association, to have an ERR of at least 10 percent. (para. 5.01(s)).
D. Risks
4.08    Albania has made good progress in implementing its economic reform program under
difficult economic conditions. The momentum for reform is being sustained, so that the risk of
a major setback in the reform process is considered to be small. One country risk which cannot
be assessed is the possible spread of regional conflicts.



-32-
4.09    One project risk is that the GOA would not provide sufficient funds to maintain the
project roads. However, they have increased the budget for maintaining the main road network
more rapidly than agreed under the ongoing Transport Project. A second project risk is that the
GOA would fail to implement the necessary reforms at the local govemment level to administer
and maintain the rural road network. However, they have already adopted legislation on local
government reform assisted by IDA, and are preparing legislation to fund rural road maintenance
(paras. 1.04 and 2.16). Project roads will be maintained by GRD, and permanent arrangements
for maintaining rural roads would be agreed with the Government following the Organization
and Management Study conclusions and recommendations (para. 3.30). An additional risk
relates to the complexity of organizing labor intensive road works. We will minimize this risk
by using consultants for supervision who are experienced in this area, and by training GRD staff
and local contractors. With the arrangements and assurances provided under the project, risks
are considered to be acceptable.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01    During negotiations, the following matters were discussed and agreed upon with the
Borrower:
(a)   road improvement works under the project to be executed, unless otherwise
agreed with IDA, through labor intensive methods (para. 3.03);
(b)   list and characteristics of the roads to be asphalted (paras. 3.03, 3.04, and
Annex 3.1);
(c)   list of equipment, vehicles, spare parts, tools, and materials to be financed
(para. 3.06, and Annex 3.3);
(d)   the list of training courses for GRD, DRDs, local contractors, and local
consultants (paras. 3.10, 3.11, and Annex 3.6);
(e)   not later than July 31, 1997, complete an action plan, and carry out such a plan
to improve the administration and maintenance of non-GRD roads, including
implementing the recommendations of the Organization and Management Study
as agreed with IDA (para. 3.14);
(f)   project components, and cost estimates (para. 3.16),
(g)   GOA's US$3.6 million contribution to the financing of the project (para. 3.20);
(h)   project financing plan (para. 3.20, Table 3.2);



-33-
(i)   provision of the following funds to GRD by the GOA for maintenance of
project roads: US$450,000 in FY97, US$500,000 in FY98, US$550,000 in
FY99, US$600,000 in FY2000, and US$650,000 in FY2001 (para. 3.21);
(j)   establishment and staffing of the PIU in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para. 3.24);
(k)   not later than March 31, 1997, GOA undertake with IDA a review and
evaluation on the progress achieved on carrying out the pilot phase and agree
on the subsequent modifications (para. 3.27, and Annex 3.10);
(1)   TOR for (a) Engineering Supervision of road works (Annex 3.5), (b) Project
Coordinator (Annex 3.7), and (c) Organization and Management Study (Annex
3.8), (para. 3.28);
(m)  project implementation schedule (including preparation of the Organization and
Management Study during the second year of project implementation),
monitoring criteria, and reporting arrangements (para. 3.31; and Annexes 3.11
and 3.12);
(n)   all consulting services TORs, and contracts exceeding US$50,000 will be
subject to prior review and approval by the Association (para. 3.35);
(o)   all procurement arrangements (para. 3.37);
(p)   documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs will be maintained
by the Borrower and made available for review by IDA supervision missions
in addition to being audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Association
(para. 3.39);
(q)   establishment and operation of the Special Account (para. 3.41);
(r)   PIU's Secretary will have the project accounts, including SOEs, and the Special
Account, audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and will submit
annually to IDA such audit reports within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 3.43); and
(s)   GOA will not undertake any rural road investments under the project unless
they are demonstrated, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, to have an
ERR of at least 10 percent (para. 4.07).
5.02   Establishment and staffing of the PIU (para. 3.24), and of its Secretariat (para. 3.25)
were conditions of negotiations duly fulfilled through MOC's Ministerial Order Number 648 of
March 3, 1995 (pam. 3.25).



-34-
5.03   The appointment of the Project Coordinator, a condition of Board presentation, was
approved on May 1, 1995 (paras. 3.12 and 3.25).
5.04    The hiring of the international consultant supervision team is a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (para. 3.08).
5.05    With the agreements reached above, the project is suitable for a SDR 10.1 million
(US$15.0 million equivalent) credit under the standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity, to the
Government of Albania.
m:aIba%ia\fedWc.lf



-35-                                Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
National Road Network, 1994*
General Survey Administered by GRD
District          Primary                   Secondary                Total           Grand
Total   Asphalt Non-Asphalt    Total   Asphalt Non-Asphalt  Asphlt Non-Asphalt  Total
Berat           62       62        0      156       10      146       72      146        218
Bulqize         32       32        0      142        3      139       35      139        174
Biber           63       38       25      155        0      155       38      180        218
Durres          41       41        0       90       39       51       80       51        131
Elbasan        113      113        0      284       54      230      167      230        397
Fier           125      125        0      152       66       86      191       86        277
Gramsh          50       50        0       71        0       71       50       71        121
Girokaster      55       55        0      226       20      206       75      206        281
Kavaje          30       30        0       50       14       36       44       36         80
Kolonje         73       73        0       41        8       33       81       33        114
Korce          138      106       32      256       18      238      124      270        394
Kruje           84       84        0       81       10       71       94       71        165
Kukes          168      105       63      207       12      195      117      258        375
Lezhe           53       53        0      106       28       78       81       78        159
Librazhd        48       48        0      369       15      354       63      354        417
Lushnje         70       70        0      157       35      122      105      122        227
Mat             97       97        0      277       21      256      118      256        374
Mirdite         91       59       32      282        0      282       59      314        373
Permet          58       58        0      103        0      103       58      103        161
Pogradec        56       56        0      194       45      149      101      149        250
Puke           112      112        0      209        0      209      112      209        321
Sarande        116      116        0      146       29      117      145      117        262
Skrapar         35       35        0      108        2      106       37      106        143
Shkoder        148      148        0      317       63      254      211      254        465
Tepelene        92       58       34      118       19       99       77      133        210
Tirane          96       96        0      272      107      165      203      165        368
Tropoje         90       55       35      164        5      159       60      194        254
Vlore          175      149       26      243       47      196      196      222        418
Total         2371    2124       247    4976       670    4306    2794    4553          7347
'Based on the formner division of the notion into 28 districts.
Source: ITECO Study, July 1994
M:%ALBANIA%FEEDER\AdNEX2-1 .XLS
11301S6



-36-
Annex 3.1
AL BAN IAPae1o3
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                               Page of 3
Road Improvement Program
Works  Agric.   Popul-   Traffic  Cumul.
Length   cost    area      ation     vpd    Cost
Road: No. and name                  Type    (km) (m Lek)    (ha)   served       2000 (m Lek)  E.R.R.
1 Vio 8:FitoretoDellinja              PM       11.2    29.7   2,138     5,782      989      30   131%
2 Fie 21 Varibopi/Gorishova          PM/G      34.2   113.1   2,899    19,872     1,421    143   140%
3 Kav 6: Vor'eni/Luzi iV. to Beden    PM       10.8    37.7   2,683    12,169      887     181   122%
4 Dev 12: Vranishti road              PM        2.4     6.2    695    2,569        350     187   125%
5 Fie 18: Levani to Vjosa / Kashisht  PM/G     13.3    26.3   1,836    7,532       773     213    81%
6 Fie 16: Pishe, Qarri and Bocova     PM       12.4    33.7   1,619    5,192       549     247    67%
7 Lez I :ZejmanitoGryka e Lumit       PM        9.5    24.4   1,240    4,687       493     271    92%
8 Tir 7 : Stermasito Kocaj Tavareni   PM       13.6    27.7   2,396    5,864       668     299    70%
9 Lus 16 :Cerme to TerbuVTri Urat    PWG        9.0    21.0   1,720     1,822      421     320    53%
10 Lus 11: Bishcukasi to Germenj junct.  G3      6.3     7.3    962      1,808       79     327    45%
11 Fie 10: Fier to Seman i Ri to NWjunct    PM/G  15.6    42.1   2,077    2,439     607     369    47%
12 Dev10:Treniroad                     G5        4.1     9.5    812    2,884        199     379    79%
13 Kav 16: Spillejito Hasdushku (Rd3)  PM/G     11.2    26.1    589      1,495      144     405    33%
14 VloI1: Xhyeina to Beshisht          PM       11.5    27.2   3,090    9,534       877     432    48%
15 Peq 1: PeqinitoThansaj               G5      12.5    30.1   1,295    3,960       206     462    47%
16 Kor 15: Pretusha to Zemblaku        PM       23.7    60.9   2,746     9,494      453     523    50%
17 Dur 14: Shijaku to Hardishta        G5        8.1    14.4    930    3,441        237     537    36%
18 Kav12:SynetoHajdaraj                G5        5.9    15.6   1,572    3,638       147     553    28%
19 Kav 14: Kavajeto Momli               G3       1.6     2.5    270        358       77     556    27%
20 Lus 6 :Grabjani to PlukiVTirana road  PM     11.7    31.1   1,746    5,893       502     587    30%
21 Kor 1: Korca to Voskopi             PM        8.5    19.2  2,458    4,490        500     606    36%
22 Fie 1 Agimi to Hasfurcasi           PM        7.7    30.4   1,966    2,717       441     636    45%
23 Fie8:SukiPoshtemandArapaj           PM        8.6    28.0    710    3,132        266     664    46%
24 Fie 7:Marinezato Suki Siperm        PM        8.4    28.6   1,414    3,194       317     693    20%
25 Lus 10: Lushnje to Hysgjokaj/Gjuzaj  PWG     22.2    55.4   3,192    6,324       357     748    29%
26 Fie 27 :Fier to Krapsi               G5       8.5    22.8    840      1,620      136     771    23%
27 Fie 20 :Levani to Shtyllasi         PM        3.8    13.2   1,089     1,953      271     784    37%
28 Dev 1 Poloska to Mirasi             PM       16.2    41.6   4,864    11,900      680     826    32%
29 Dev 7: Biisht to HocishtlGraca     PM        7.7    16.8   2,063    5,822       380     843    41%
30 Lus 3: Babunja to Mertishi          PM        7.3    20.1   3,455    9,370       773     863    36%
31 Fie 26: Mbrostari to Agami          PM       12.5    39.9  4,861      8,574      953     903    38%
32 Fie 11 Hoxara to Gjokalli (Rd 58)   PM        5.8    14.6    890      1,776      234     917    36%
33 Kav 5: Kavaja to Bagoja             PM        8.1    34.2  2,076    6,842        565     951    45%
34 Kor 18: Rembeci to Podgorij/Pretusha    PWG  16.5    41.2   3,207    8,668       359     993    28%
35 Lac 1: Fushe Mamuras to Gorreja     G5       19.5    36.1   2,100    2,700       225   1,029    24%



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 3
Works   Agric   Popul-   Traffic  Cumul.
Length    cost   area      ation      vpd    Cost
Road: No. and name                   Type    (km) (m Lek)    (ha)   served       2000  (m Lek)  E.R.R.
36 Dur 7: Xhatzotaj to Qeret Flaka      PM        8.4    22.4   1,340    2,934       513   1,051    17%
37 Lez 6: Tirana road to PirajVKodeli   PM       13.3    37.3   1,286    2,622       374   1,088    39%
38 Sko 14: Ranxato Melgushi             G5        6.0    18.1    790      3,034      236   1,107    45%
39 Lez5:Gramshito Dajci (Rd 37)         PM        4.2    11.5   1,796    4,518       381   1,118    41%
40 Lac 5 : Fonat Laci to Gurez/Fush Kuqja    G5  14.0    31.8    850      5,900      287   1,150    30%
41 Dur 3: Sallmonaj to Katundi i Ri     PM        9.3    23.8   1,569    4,542       610   1,174    43%
42 Fie 33: Kurjanito Ngjeqari/All'bresi  G5      10.2    32.8   1,110     4,050      140   1,206    26%
43 Dur 1: Maminasi to Hamallaj          PM       15.7    52.4   5,377    15,346      612   1,259    46%
44 Kru 9: Hasanito Mallkuci             PM        7.5    16.3   1,255     3,814      452   1,275    42%
45 Kav7: Bagojato Demeni/Kry'dhi (Rd3)    PM     21.0    17.3   3,389     8,416      338   1,292    39%
46 Lez2: Shenkoli to Lezha              PM        8.9    51.2   1,350     3,433      446   1,344    35%
47 Fie 29: Roscovecito Kurjani          PM        5.2    20.8   2,010     6,638      482   1,364    24%
48 Fie 9: Fieri to Mujallia             PM        6.0    17.4   1,080     2,479      531   1,382    26%
49 Dev8: Bilishtbto BabanVStropani      PM        6.7    16.1    983      2,977      293   1,398    21%
50 Sko 13: Hajmelito Shalgeti           G5        8.4    39.5   1,200     2,880      178   1,437    14%
51 Lus 2: Babunja to Divjaka (Rd 30)    PM       13.6    23.0   2,779     7,807      429   1,460    22%
52 Kor 8: Korce to Polena               PM        8.6    17.8   1,205     2,177      254   1,478    29%
53 Lez 12 : Dajci to KoterrVN'shab (Rd 39)  G3    6.2    25.3    563      1,365      167   1,503    18%
54 Dev5 :Kucito Perparimaj              G5        8.0     7.9    754      1,825      151   1,511    16%
55 Kav4: Rrakullito Bagoja              G5        8.8    12.8    682      2,850      227   1,524    28%
56 Lus 18: Gurito Karavastaja (Rd 51)   G5        6.0    48.9    877      3,094      226   1,573    13%
57 Lus8:FierSheganitoFieriRi            PM        7.8    17.9   2,197     6,394      419   1,591    19%
58 Fie13:TopojatoSheq-Marinasi         PM/G      10.3    15.1   2,100     1,154      754   1,606    19%
59 Dev6 :Borshito Cipani (Rd 54)        G5        3.5    31.1    414      1,029      105   1,637    35%
60 Kav 1: Golemi to Seferaj/Golemasi    G3        4.1     7.8    750      2,104      176   1,645    27%
61 Lus 7: Bubullina to KamcishtiAlmshi  PM       15.9    18.4   3,378     7,287      523   1,663    21%
62 Kor 23 :Zvezda to Plasa              PM        7.1     8.9   1,735    6,525       345   1,672    24%
63 Kor 14: Pendavinjto Rembeci junct    PM        6.1    22.8    960      2,350      324   1,695    23%
64 Fie2: Kallmi i Vogel to Verrija      PM       11.0    22.2   1,062     1,802      372   1,717    15%
65 Lac6 :GurezitoGorrejiroad            PM        3.4    16.1    485      2,650      241   1,733    18%
66 Kru 11 NikljtoMukja                 PWG       10.0    81.3    544      2,741      322   1,814    20%
67 Tir 10: Kamza to Karasta             PM        4.0    23.3    880      3,439      283   1,838    15%
68 Tir6 :VaqaritoArbanaMshaj            PM        8.9    16.9   1,230     4,550      367   1,855    13%
69 Lez 10: Rrabnshta to KallmetiVogel  PWG       11.6    15.2   1,380     4,902      386   1,870    13%
70 Lus9 : KarbunaretoZgjane             PM        5.8    16.3   1,315     2,284      225   1,886    14%



-38-                                      Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 3
Works   Agric   Popul-   Traffic  Cumul.
Length    cost    area       ation      vpd    Cost
Road: No. and name                    Type    (km) (m Lek)    (ha)   served         2000  (m Lek)  E.R.R.
71 Tirl6:Kashari                          PM        4.0      9.7   1,163     4,052       391    1,896    15%
72 Fie 15: Bocova from junct road 16      G3        7.0      6.5     600         0        45   1,902    24%
73 Lac 9: Sanxhakito Fushe Kuqja          G3        9.0      7.2   1,130     2,840       122   1,909    29%
74 Lac 1: Fushe Kuqja to Fonat Laci       G3        6.6      7.3     570     1,100        82   1,917    40%
75 Lac8: N. Mamurasito ShIlinza           G3        7.4     6.3   1,130        100        81   1,923    17%
76 Dur 10: Qeret FlakaJP. Roman.Nrinasi    G3       8.2      8.2   1,020     2,877        92   1,931    48%
77 Lus 1 Savra to Tri Urat                G5       14.8    31.0   2,780         50       148   1,962    38%
78 Fie17:FerrasitoKafaraj                 G3        5.9      4.1     435       625        59   1,966    31%
79 Lus 15: LushnjetoAllprenezi            G3        3.5      5.5     369       850        60   1,972    11%
80 Kor 21 Zvezda to LiqenasVZaroshka      G5       11.6    21.8      789     2,874       239   1,994     11%
81 Kav 11 Kryeluzi to Zambishta/Oshtuni    G5       8.4    23.0      934     3,454       172   2,017    11%
82 Tir 11 :Karasta to Zall Herri (Rd 65)  G5        2.7      4.6     660     2,625       143   2,021     11%
83 Lus17:KemishtatoSopeza                 G3        2.2      4.4     320       810       113   2,026     11%
84 Pog 12: Blaca and Alarupi              PM        7.4    17.5   1,381      3,134      221   2,043    11%
85 Tir 8 : Berxulli to Bregu i Lumit      G5       10.4    20.7      800     2,880       163   2,064     11%
86 Add 5A: Cuka to Konispoli              PM       29.4    71.0   2,280      4,230       350   2,135    30%
87 Add 3: Berat to Corovoda               PM       48.0    93.7      390     1,435      607   2,229    33%
88 Add 4: Brataj to Kuci                  PM       28.8    80.2   1,162      6,811       105   2,309     12%
89 Add 1: Bajram to Kruma                 PM       47.0    90.8   4,125      9,900       193   2,400     13%
90 Add 2: Elbasanito Gramshi              PM       18.8    40.5      345     1,620       368   2,440     13%
TOTAL (Average)                                 975   2,440 141,556   383,694        (405)            (33%)
Note: PM, G3 and G5 refer to the main surface and width of the road; penetration macadam (PM), gravel (G), 3.5 meters (3)
and 5.5 meters (5). A few sections include subsections with both (PM and G) surfaces;
In roads including two types of surface, the one Indicated is the dominant type on which benefts have been based.
Exchange rate: US$1 =Lek 94.7
Source: ITECO
December 1994
m:%albaniaVeederAannex3-1 .wk4 - 01/31/95



-39-
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Inprovement Measures
1.   Improvement measures. The base data used to define the improvement of the project
roads are: (i) road and soil conditions, (ii) condition of structures, and (iii) volume of traffic
anticipated by the year 2000, measured in vehicles per day (v.p.d.). The volume of traffic has
been used to define the road width and type of surfacing. The road and soil condition, together
with the traffic volumes, are the determining factors for the structural road design. The large
number of roads investigated and selected required the elaboration of generalized engineering
designs accurate enough for the purpose of the project.
2.    Road Width. Traffic volumes were divided into three categories, each defining a
specific road width:
Traffic Volume      Width of         Width of       Total Width
(v.p.d.)       carriage way      shoulders         of road
> 250            5.00 m         2 x 0.75 m        6.50 m
100-250           5.50 m              -             5.50 m
< 100            3.50 m         2 x 0.75 m        5.00 m
The carriageway width of 5.00 m together with the two shoulders of 0.75 m each and
the carriageway width of 5.50 m (without shoulders) allow a crossing of two trucks at reduced
speed. On the 3.50 m wide carriage way, crossing of trucks is only possible at reduced speed
and by using the adjacent shoulders. Omission of shoulders in the 100-250 v.p.d. category is
only for economy, but is technically acceptable. Road width within villages will be 6.00 m
without shoulders and with stone pitch lined drainage ditches on both road sides. The road
widths proposed above have been discussed with local engineers and the relevant authorities, and
according to their judgement, will not be in opposition to future standards.
3.    Road Surfaces. Roads with traffic volumes above 250 v.p.d. will be improved with a
penetration macadam (PM) surface. All other roads shall be given gravel surfaces. The
technique of PM surfacing is well known in Albania and will be used for the project. However,
the use of asphalt concrete (AC) and surfacing with cold mix using emulsion should not be
excluded as an alternative bid, if it can be justified.
4.    Structural Design. The three following road structure designs were based on the
recommendations from Road Note 31 (draft 4th edition) by TRRL, and Pavement Rehabilitation
and Strengthening Design, by M. Blumer, Hnibach/Thun, Switzerland, and on observations of
available materials, technical considerations, input from local engineers, and costs.



-40-
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 3
Lower             Top                  Road
Traffic Category      Layer            Layer                Surfacing
> 250 veh/day      150 mm Gravel   100 mm Gravel        65 mm PM
100 - 250 veh/day    150 mm Gravel   100 mm Gravel      100 mm Gravel, crushed
< 100 veh/day            -          150 mm Gravel       150 mm Gravel
5.    Road Types. Based on the selected road widths and surfaces, the project will include
four different road types: (i) PM (penetration macadam, 6.50m wide, 5.00m. carriageway; 2
shoulders of 0.75 m.), (ii) G5 (gravel surface 5.50 m. wide, 5.50 m. wide carriageway; no
shoulders), (iii) G3 (gravel surface 5.00 m. wide, 3.50 m. carriageway; 2 shoulders of 0.75 m.),
and (iv) village roads, (6.00 wide, 6.00 m. carriageway 1.20 m. stone pitched drainage side
ditches). These are shown in diagrams on the following page of this Annex.
m:ailinia^\cder~,mx-3.2



-41-                             Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 3
ROAD TYPES
,             m~~~~rcx. 6.50 
PM (5.00 m. carriageway) ,nax. 0.75l    l.C                                     rn.=  0.73
Traffic (in general):           _                                          7
> 100 veh/day                                     - 
13-4.    X     2-3              _3-4 ze
L C=-rent Carmiae7m (! gS=?l1) 3.50   i
ma.x. 5-.50
G5 (5.50 m. carriageway)
Traffic (in general):                         - _
30 - 100 veh/day                             3--
L C-rreut Cdiczy  (. se         ) 2.50   wide
G3 (3.50 m. carriageway)         0.75 L            3.a.
Traffic (in general):             I  |          .
< 30 veh/day                , .-  5,7-7.
-6 %          3-4 %            5-6 Z
LCcwrest Cezr-ialZfway (i ceTaI) 3.5O= wide
In villages.
PM 6.00 m. carriageway
and 1.20 m. stone pitched                                                              raout
side ditches                                                                          ouu-t 
L C=rect CaxxqzTIu.mW   (  gencral) 3.50x wide



-42-                                     Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
Rural Roads Project
Equipment to be procured
Unit Price    Total Cost
Procurements (CIF Value)                          Unit   Qty.  (US$ 1,000) (US$ 1,000)
1 Project Coordinator Office (PIU Secretariat at GRD)
1.1 Office Equipment
Computer                                                   1            3            3
Computer + Printer                                         1            2            2
Software (standard as text, spreadsheet, etc.)  LS                                   2
Software for Accounting                                    1            2            2
Software for Contract Management                           1            8            8
Photocopier (small)                                        1            3            3
Fax                                                        1            2            2
Initial Spare / Consumables                     LS                                   2
1.1      Subtotal                                                                       24
1.2 Vehicles
Vehicles                                                   2           15           30
Initial Spares (10%)                                                                 3
1.2      Subtotal                                                                      33
1       Total PIU Coordinator Office                                                 57
2 District Road Authorities
per district
2.1 Office Equipment
Computer                                                   1            3            3
Printer                                                    1            2            2
Software (text, spreadsheet, accounting)        LS                                   3
Initial Spares / Consumables                    LS                                   2
2.1      Subtotal                                                                       10
2.2 Vehicles
Vehicle (pick-up)                                          1           22           22
Motorbike                                                  1            5            5
Initial Spares                                                                       3
2.2       Subtotal                                                                     30
Total per supported district                                                        40
2 Total District Roads Authority                             12         40          480
3 Main Project Office for Supervision (Tirana)
3.1 Office Equipment
Photocopier                                                1            7            7
Binding Machine                                            1            1            1
Telephone System                                           1            2            2
Fax                                                        1            2            2
Computer                                                   3            3            9



-43                                    Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 2
Unit Price    Total Cost
Procurements (CIF Value)                          Unit   Qty.  (USs 1,000) 1US$ 1,000o
Printer                                                    2            2            4
Streamer                                                   1            1            1
Software (text/spreadsheet. etc., also for site office)  LS                          4
Drafting Equipment                              LS                                   2
Initial Spares t Consumables                    LS                                   3
3.1       Subtotal                                                                      35
3.2 Survey / Supervision Equipment
Level / Tripod / Measuring Rods                            1            3            3
Various small equipment (measuring tapes, calculators,
etc.)                                           LS                                   2
3.2       Subtotal                                                                       5
3.3 Office Furniture                                LS                                   2
3.4 Vehicles for supervision / technical assistance            3          15            45
3       Total Main Project Office                                                     87
4 Site Project Offices for Supervision (3)
per Project Office
4.1 Office Equipment
Photocopier (small)                                        1            3            3
Fax                                                        1            2            2
Computer                                                   1            3            3
Printer                                                    1            2            2
Drafting Equipment                              LS                                   2
Initial Spares / Consumables                    LS                                   2
4.1       Subtotal                                                                      14
4.2 Survey / Supervision Equipment
Level / Tripod / Measuring Rods                            1            3            3
Various small equipment (measuring tapes, calculators,
etc.)                                           LS                                   2
4.2       Subtotal                                                                       5
4.3 Office Furniture                                LS                                   1
4.4 Vehicles for supervision
Vehicle                                                    1           15           15
Motorbike                                                  2            5           10
Initial Spares (10%)                                                                 3
4.4       Subtotal                                                                      28
Total per Project Office                                                            48
4       Total Site Project Offices                           3          48           144
1-4              GRAND TOTAL                                                            768
Procurement Services, Handling Charges                    10%        768            77
TOTAL PROCUREMENT in 1,000 US$                                                    845
m:%Nbans%F9ederVAUvwx.3-3
10131/1994



-44-                                 Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Incremental Operational Costs
Provisions of Project: Allowances and Operation Costs
Unit        Qty.       1,000 Lek   1,000 Lek
1 National Roads Directorate
1.1 Project Allowances
Project Manager                        month         36              15         540
Assistant Engineer                     month         36              10         360
Accountant                             month         36               10        360
Secretary                              month         36              10         360
Driver / Helper                        month         36               6         216
1.1      Subtotal                                                                 1,836
1.2 Operational Expenses
Vehicle operation (2)                  month         72              25       1,800
Communication (international)          month         36              20         720
Office Consumables                     month         36              1 0        360
1.2      Subtotal                                                                2,880
1       Total                                                                  4,716
2 District Roads Authorities
per involved / supported district
2.1 Project Allowances
Director                               month         36              1 5        540
Engineer                               month         36              10         360
2.1      Subtotal                                                                   900
2.2 Operational Expenses
Vehicle operation (pickup)             month         36              30        1,080
Motorbike (1)                          month         36              10         360
2.2      Subtotal                                                                 1,440
Total per supported District                                                  2,340
2       Total District Roads Directorates  district    12           2,340      28,080
TOTAL ALLOWANCES/OPERATIONAL COST                                      32 796
TOTAL in 1,000 US$$                                                       328



-45-                         Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Consultants for Construction Supervision, and
Technical Assistance and Training
Terms of Reference
A.   Background and Introduction
1.    The Rural Roads Project will operate through an 8-month preparation period followed
by three years of construction, and will provide for improvement of some 975 km of short road
sections dispersed over 20 districts. In addition, it will assist in the development of the technical
and managerial capabilities of GOA institutions and of the emerging private construction
industry, and in the creation of a viable private consulting industry. It will also provide inputs
to improve management and techniques of road maintenance to assure conservation of every road
improved by means of the project.
2.    Physical improvement works will be undertaken under FIDIC organization with the
District Road Directorates as the "Employers". International consultants in collaboration with
local engineers/consultants will act as the "Engineer", providing adaptive designs and
construction supervision. Private contractors will be responsible for implementation. Up to 90
construction sites, and about 30 contracts, should be operational through the project period.
3.    Successful implementation of the project requires understanding of its wide scope, i.e.,
of the large number of work sites, the numerous "Employers", the range of objectives, and the
lack of experience of the participants. This will be addressed by providing a Project Coordinator,
using experienced international consultants and commencing with a one-year inception phase in
order to gain experience through the proposed organizational, managerial and technical
procedures, and assess the modifications required following a review of initial works.
B.   Objectives
4.    The consultants' two main objectives are provision of:
(i)   technical assistance to the General Roads Directorate, and the 20 involved District
Road Directorates in construction supervision, ensuring that appropriate levels of
quality, cost, and progress are achieved; and
(ii)  technical assistance to the GRD/DRDs, the local construction companies, and the
local consulting companies to ensure each is better able to address their roles in
the future.



-46-                          Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 5
C.   Scope of Work
Construction supervision
5.    Improvement of 975 km of rural roads will require approximately 30 construction
contracts covering a total of around 90 road sections spread through 20 districts over a three
year project period. Supervision of these contracts on behalf of GRD/DRDs will be performed
by an international consultant with expatriate staff working in association with local engineers
and site supervisors. Their work will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following
activities:
(i)   define contract packages at the beginning to ensure that a range of size and
complexity of contracts is provided, that the packages include realistic groupings
to minimize construction and supervision, particularly during the first year, and
to ensure that these packages are approved by GRD/DRDs. Contract packages
for subsequent years will be re-evaluated, where required, by means of traffic
surveys to confirm economic viability;
(ii)  review pre-qualification documentation, agree on criteria with GRD/DRDs, and
set up the procedures for advertising and evaluation of pre-qualification;
(iii)  evaluate pre-qualification documentation provided by contractors, and recommend
a list of qualified contractors to GRD/DRDs for the different types of contract;
(iv)   determine traffic measurements and review designs of the roads to be improved;
(v)   prepare tender documents for each contract, assist DRDs with any problems
during the bidding period and in the evaluation of tenders, and recommend to
DRDs which contractors should win each contract, following participation in
contract negotiations as required;
(vi)  prepare construction drawings with the contractor and provide the contractor with
all data for the execution of the works, including confirmations of all changes
specified to the tender designs during adaptation on site; review and approval of
any working drawings prepared by the contractor to adapt and finalize the general
designs for specific sites;
(vii)  issue revised plans and specifications as necessary, prepare variation orders and
assist DRDs in negotiating with the contractors;
(viii) review and approve the contractors' work schedules, and ensure that the works
are inspected and are in accordance with updated schedules and that progress is
being made as required to complete the works. Regular progress reports back to
DRD and GRD should be made;
(ix)  inspect all works to ensure that they conform to specifications and meet specified
quality standards and give immediate notice in writing to the contractor and DRD
of any defects, deficiencies or non-compliance;



-47-                           Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 5
(x)   maintain a clear and permanent record of the quantities of work executed together
with clear permanent records of all quality control testing carried out during the
course of the works;
(xi)  assist the contractors in measurement and in preparation of monthly bills, which
should conform to DRD requirements, with details of quantity of work performed
during the current month, total work executed to date, evaluation and justification
for any extra work and stating the amount due to the contractor in total and for
the current month;
(xii)  report (monthly) progress of the works, by site and by contract, to GRD and PIU
with compilation reports of progress in all districts to GRD, including analysis of
problems in any area, with proposals for their resolution; and
(xiii) prepare completion reports for all contracts including any special as-built details.
Technical Assistance and Training
6.    The consultant will provide support to each of the participants in the Project, i.e., the
General Roads Directorate, each of the twenty District Road Directorates, all local contractors
employed by the DRDs within the project, and the local engineers/consultants, in order to
promote the successful implementation of the various project objectives.
7.    Assistance to the General Roads Directorate in project management will be continuous
through the whole project implementation period. Working with the Project Coordinator, the
consultant will focus on specific aspects such as:
(i)  provision of job assistance in management of project planning and budgeting, cost,
quality and progress control during the course of working with the Project
Coordinator and his staff, and assurance by the consultant that training in the
practical use of computer facilities is provided in such a way that basic competence
in production of reports is facilitated, using word processing, spreadsheets and
project management programs or data bases;
(ii)  courses in management of contracts (FIDIC) given by a specialist experienced in
contracting; and
(iii) arrangement of study tours to Western Europe with 3 tours of 6 persons for a
period of approximately 10 days with emphasis on exchange of experience in the
fields of contract management, road system administration, and road rehabilitation
and maintenance techniques and systems.
8.    Assistance to District Road Directorates will largely be through a continuous on-the-job
basis. The consultant acting as "Engineer" will have continuous contact with the DRD as his
"Employer" and will provide assistance as necessary to permit effective management of contracts
(FIDIC), with emphasis on the DRD's duties as the "Employer" on the following basis:



-48-                           Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 5
(i)  the consultant will assist the District Road Directorates in management of contracts,
accounting and assumption of the role of the Employer (cost, quality and progress
control), especially at crucial phases of the project (i.e., tender evaluation,
commencement of works, and taking-over of works);
(ii) the DRDs' extensive knowledge of local conditions will be utilized and the
consultant will seek full agreement on all details of improvement works. The
consultant will provide specialists to resolve any serious problems which may arise,
e.g., aspects of pavement technology or erosion protection but will seek to ensure
that such specialists are used to disseminate technical solutions as widely as possible
with seminars and site meetings involving more than a single district staff; and
(iii) during the second and third years of the project, the consultant will assist the DRDs
in improving and implementing the proposed maintenance concept with the
introduction of elements of a maintenance management system. Specific training
will be provided in the use of computers to improve accounting and general office
practices.
9.    Assistance to local contractors will be provided on request on such matters as site
organization, management of labor, maintenance and use of equipment, and contract
measurement and billing. Specific involvement will include pre-bid seminars for local contractors
with emphasis on pertinent sections of the general conditions of contract (FIDIC Part I) and on
particular applications for the Project (FIDIC Part II), the base for reasonable assessment of
construction rates for bidding and the best mix of labor-intensive methods with the necessary but
limited equipment.
10.   Technical assistance to contractors will include assistance in the definition of equipment
needs and in work preparation, and on-site support in site management and equipment
management. The extent of assistance depends on the contractors selected for execution of works
and has to be shaped according to their specific demands.
11.   The international consultants' work will depend very much upon their success in
developing the capacities of the local engineers employed so that they learn to assume their new
role as consultants. The project's objective is to use the consulting services required under the
Project to create three independent private engineering consultant companies. This will be
achieved through a process whereby individuals or groups of individuals will be hired by the
international consultant with the expressed aim of their moving from individual contracts of
employment at the commencement of the project to fee based payment through sub-contracts for
works by the end of the first year. The groups will provide full services but remain responsible
to the international consultant. In order to achieve this, the consultant will provide technical
assistance to the designated local staff and on-the-job training in supervision of construction
works (measurement and billing, control of cost, quality and progress) and contract management.
12.   In addition to the continuous on-the-job training provided by the resident team, the
international consultant will provide supplementary assistance specific to the build-up and
management of a consulting office with training in administration, accounting, cost calculation



-49-                             Annex 3.5
Page 5 of 5
and control, quality assurance, business development etc.. The extent of assistance will depend
on the needs expressed by the local engineers/consultants.
13.   This transition from employee to associated local consultant is intended to take place as
early as possible but efforts in this direction are assumed to be concentrated in the second and
third years, when the priority work with DRDs and contractors starts to become better
understood. The international consultant will be responsible to assist in determining the most
appropriate legal basis for the local consultants, in assisting with appropriate organizational
structures and job classifications, staffing requirements and salary scales.
14.   Provision of procurement services for all items required by GRD and the consultar.t will
be done through international procurement. The items involved are assumed to be as specified
in this report but will be clarified in the inception report, see below.
15.   Monitoring of project activities is the responsibility of the Project Coordinator with the
provision that the consultant will be assisting this reporting in all areas. However, the following
reporting will be required directly from the consultant:
(i)  Inception report within six weeks of commencement of work. The report will
outline its findings of any significant alterations since the Project Study, in
particular those which could require amendments to the initial approach, e.g.,
changes in GOA organizations and their responsibility for particular roads. It will
include any proposal for amendments to the project timetable and provide schedules
for any specialist staff due in the next half yearly work period;
(ii) Semi-annual Report to be provided simultaneously with the Project Coordinator
report, assumed to be at the mid- and end-points of the annual cycle with the report
to be produced within two weeks of the end of the period; and
(iii) Final Report to be provided in draft form within six weeks of completion of the
construction works and within three weeks after receipt of comments upon the draft
report from the Bank.
MMUALNIA\FEEDERANNEX3.5



-50-                                     Annex 3.6
ALBANIA                                     Page 1 of 1
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training'
Procu.
Method   Unit    Qty.        1,000 L ek     1,000 Lek
1 National Roads Directorate
1.1 Training/Courses Local Cost                             S.L.
Computer Courses (6wk)Tirana                                               3               10            30
Courses in Contract Management including
direct cost for course materials                                                                         70
1.1 Subtotal                                                                                                100
1.1 Subtotal in US$ 1,000                                                                                     1
Unit    Qty.      1,000 US$      1.000 US$
1.2 Study Tours to Western Europe (3)                       S.L.
per tour
tour preparationlescort                                                                                  15
per diem                                                         days      60            0.15             9
travel                                                          trips      6              1.5              9
insurance and documentation                                                                               4
Total per tour                                                                                           37
1.2 Subtotal                                                                   3              37            111
1 Total National Roads Directorate                                                                        112
Unit    Qty.       1,000 Lek     1,000 Lek
2 District Roads Authorities
per involved/supported district
2.3 Training/Courses Local Cost                             S.L.
Computer Courses (6wk) Tirana                                              2               10            20
Courses in Management of Contracts, including
direct costs for participants and course materials               day       20               3            60
Total per supported District                                                                             80
2 Total District Roads Directorates                               district    12             80           960
2 Total District Roads Directorates in 1,000 US$                                                           10
Unit    Qty.      US$ 1,000      US$ 1,000
3 Technical Assistance by Foreign Consultant
3.1 Technical Assistance by Resident Expatriates            S.L.
Assistance to National and District Roads Directorates
Contractors in Management of Contracts and Quality Control
provided by Team Leader                                          m/m       13              10           130
3.1 Subtotal                                                                                                130
3.2 Technical Assistance by Short Term Specialists           S.L.
Assistance/Training in Computer Accounting                       mi/M      3               10            30
Courses in Contract Management (FIDIC)                           mi/M      1               10            10
Pre-bid Seminar for Contractors                                  mi/M      1               10            10
Assistance to District Road Authorities in management of
contracts/maintenance                                            m/m       3               10            30
Assistance to Contractors in Site (Labor) and Equipment
Management                                                       m/m       3               10            30
Support for Build-up and Training of Local Consultants           mi/M      5               10            50
Unallocated man/months for unforeseable assistance /
support to road directorates, consultants and contractors        m/m       7               10            70
Direct Cost for Course Material                                                                          10
3.2 Subtotal                                                                                                240
3 Total                                                                                                   370
1-3           GRAND TOTAL IN US$ 1,000                                                                     493
1/ The above estimates do not include contingencies.       S.L. = Selected Ust
M:AALBANIAWFEEDERIANNEX-3.6 - 11/1611994



Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Coordinator
Terms of Reference
A.   BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION
1.    The Rural Roads Project will operate through an eight-month preparation period and
three-year period of construction, and will provide for improvement of some 975 km of short
sections of roads dispersed over 20 districts. In addition, it will assist in the development of the
technical and managerial capabilities of GOA institutions, the emerging private construction
industry, and the creation of viable private sector consulting engineers. It will also provide
inputs to improve management and techniques of road maintenance to assure satisfactory
conservation of roads improved under the project.
2.    Physical improvement works will be undertaken under FIDIC organization with the
District Road Directorates as the 'Employers", international consultants in collaboration with
local engineers/consultants acting as the "Engineer", providing adaptive designs and construction
supervision, and private contractors responsible for detailed implementation. Through the project
period, up to 90 construction sites and about 30 contracts should be operational.
3.    Successful implementation of the project requires understanding of its wide scope,
including the large number of work sites, the numerous "Employers", the range of objectives,
and the lack of experience of the participants. This will be addressed by providing a Project
Coordinator, using an experienced international consultant and commencing with a one-year
inception phase with reduced targets to gain experience with the proposed organizational,
managerial and technical procedures, and providing for modifications following a review of
initial works.
B.   OBJECTIVES
4.    The Project Coordinator will provide a single channel of command for the project to
ensure that an up-to-date focus of knowledge is available to provide appropriate planning,
financial monitoring and progress reporting to Government departments, to the World Bank and
to other (Italy) project donors. The Project Coordinator will expand the capacity of the General
Roads Directorate to manage the project, whilst remaining within their established structure. He
will ensure that the funds provided are utilized so as to maintain the proper balance between
project beneficiaries and maximize overall benefits.
C. SCOPE OF WORK
5.    The Project Coordinator will be responsible to the Director General of the General Roads
Directorate (GRD) through the PIU Secretariat in the GRD Foreign Aid Department. He will
be supported by professional/supporting staff and the specialists of other departments within
GRD and will work closely with, and receive support from, the international consultants. He will
be required to work through the eight-month preparation period, and the three years of
construction works. The main tasks for the Project coordinator are described below.



-52-                           Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 3
Project coordination
6.    The Project Coordinator, through the PIU, will be responsible for liaison between GRD
and other Government ministries, departments and district authorities, with the World Bank and
Italy, with the international consultants, and with the DRDs for all activities of the Rural Roads
Project. He will ensure that official and practical liaison is maintained with others responsible
for Government programs, in particular the management of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
(or its successor), and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. His activities will be undertaken in
such manner as to provide appropriate information to all parties and to promote resolution of any
problems arising during implementation.
Planning and budgeting of works
7.    The Project Coordinator will be responsible for the development of annual work plans
as required by the World Bank. He will provide detailed plans for implementation and ensure
that the consultants, the appropriate DRDs and any other project-related bodies are fully involved
and provide all required base information. He will coordinate preparation of the project budget
and ensure that any administrative procedures for both budget preparation and expenditures are
in compliance with prevailing Government and Bank regulations.
Resource allocation and release of funds to DRDs
8.    The project budget will be contained in the investment budget for roads of the Ministry
of Construction but will be clearly separable since the World Bank credit and Italy loan will flow
through a special account operated at a commercial bank in Tirana. The Project Coordinator will
be responsible to:
(i)   provide documented submission of withdrawal application to the World Bank to
permit this account to be replenished in time to ensure that payments to
contractors are not delayed and that the progress of works is adhered to;
(ii)   arrange provision of letters of credit to permit the consultant to undertake the
international procurement required by the project, and to make payment to the
consultants in accordance with their contract; and
(iii)  release funds to the District Road Directorates on the basis of progress of works
actually achieved.
Selection of international consultant services and equipment required for the project.
9.    An early and urgent task of the Project Coordinator will be to advance the selection,
negotiation/award of contract to the international engineering consultant team. Following this
award he will provide assistance to the consultant in all matters connected with relations with
Government and ensure maximum utilization of the consultant in accordance with the
consultant's TOR.
10.   He will assist the consultant in defining items requiring international procurement,
including vehicles and equipment for use by GOA personnel and the consultant during the
implementation of the project. He will arrange letters of credit following Bank approval of these



-53-                            Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 3
items and create and maintain an assets register for all Government equipment procured under
the project.
Finalization of pre-qualification and tender documents and issue of guidelines for pre-
qualification and tendering to the DRDs
11.   The Project Coordinator is responsible for the rapid and correct appointment of
contractors. He will, with the consultant, finalize pre-qualification and tender documents, issue
guidelines for local pre-qualification and tendering by the DRDs, and provide the support
required such that the DRDs are able to rapidly and effectively undertake this new role.
Reporting, monitoring of progress, quality and financial performance
12.   The efficient disbursement of project funds to the Government of Albania by the World
Bank depends upon proper reporting to the Bank of physical progress, development of
institutions, quality of works, and financial performance. It is the responsibility of the Project
Coordinator to provide such reporting on time and meeting the content requirements as may be
required from time to time by the Bank.
13.   The Project Coordinator will be responsible to provide financial monitoring of all
expenditure under the credit and to request such assistance from the consultant and the DRDs
to ensure this occurs. This will include quarterly and annual progress and financial reports to
the GOA, the World Bank, and Italy, in accordance with their reporting requirements.
14.   He will also provide comprehensive information on rehabilitation works including the
extent of work progress, labor involvement, work quality and payments made and due to
contractors and the overall situation. He will include progress reports on institutional
developments, including consultant and contractor support and performance of consultants, and
districts staff including any improved maintenance introduced. He will provide copies of any
amended design proposals, consultants construction manuals and road performance studies. The
basic monitoring framework will be as provided in the Annex 3.12, Project Monitoring Matrix
(Monitoring Indicators), but will be supplemented in cooperation with the consultant.
15.   He will prepare and provide to the GOA, the World Bank, and Government of Italy
monthly statements on all financial records including: (i) withdrawals from IDA credit, Italy
loan, and GOA's participation with copies of disbursement requests and related documentation;
(ii) records of transactions of the Project account including copies of bank statements and
balances; and (iii) information on any outstanding claims to the Bank and upon the Project by
contractors or arising from procurement.
Technical services to DRDs
16.   The Project Coordinator will provide to the DRDs any details of technical standards
required and results of any technical audits such as evaluation of gravels, bitumen or concrete
which have not been conducted locally.
MWALBANIA\FEEDER\ANNEX-3.7



-54-                           Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Organization and Management Study
Terms of Reference
A.   Introduction
1.    There are approximately 18,000 km of roads in Albania, with 2,400 km classified as
primary roads, 5,000 km as secondary roads, some 1,000 km as urban roads, and the remaining
9,500 km as tertiary or local (rural) roads. The General Roads Directorate (GRD) of the
Ministry of Construction and Tourism (MOC) is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance of some 7,400 km of the primary and secondary roads, and the municipalities
administer the 1,000 km of urban roads. The remaining 9,500 km were previously managed by
a variety of state farms, cooperatives and communes which have disappeared. According to the
Law No. 7572 of Local Government of June 10, 1992, the latter are now the responsibility of
the 36 local elected legislative bodies called the district councils, with the possibility left open
for them to delegate further to a commune or baskia (town) council. Although the legal
responsibility for this lowest level of the road system is clear, the system is not yet implemented.
Neither the districts nor the communes have a budget adequate to meet their responsibilities at
present. In addition, they have insufficient technical capacity and, in matters related to roads,
it appears common for the commune or baskia to approach the GRD's District Road Directorates
(DRDs) for informal technical advice. The GRD has recommended, and the Ministry of the
Interior plans, to provide the district councils with more realistic budgets for road maintenance
beginning in 1995, and to arrange with individual communes for local sources of taxation to
finance local road maintenance.
3.    Over the last decade, and particularly since 1991 most secondary and tertiary roads have
deteriorated severely due to lack of maintenance, to the extent that many of these roads are
inaccessible to motorized vehicles during part of the year and many of them are in poor
condition even during the dry season. In addition, all roads were designed to carry a small fleet
of state owned vehicles, in an era when there were severe restrictions on personal mobility. The
number of registered vehicles has grown some six-fold during the last four years and is expected
to continue growing rapidly. Traffic counts carried out in 1994 on 40 sections of secondary and
tertiary roads ranged from 60 vpd to as high as 1,670 vpd (excluding agricultural and animal
drawn traffic). Truck sizes have increased from a typical weight of five tons per single axle
to ten tons per single axle on the asphalted roads (often 11.5 tons, as presently authorized in the
European Community), and six tons on the rest of the network. Significant numbers of heavy
articulated trucks are now in use, and these are even appearing on tertiary roads. There are no
axle-load limitations at present, and this issue is being investigated with the assistance of
advisors under the Transport Project. As a consequence, almost all of the paved roads need to
be rehabilitated, investments are required to increase capacity on some sections of primary
roads, and sections of the secondary and tertiary networks require improvement.



-55-                          Annex
Page 2 of 4
4.    GRD was reorganized (Organizational Decision of December 29, 1993) in March 1994
under the Ministry of Construction, Housing, and Territory Adjustment, presently the Ministry
of Construction and Tourism (MOC), as a continuation of the former National Roads
Department (NRD) of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). GRD is presently
responsible for secondary roads and even some tertiary roads. Government has also applied for
IDA assistance to finance a Rural Roads Project, and has agreed to be responsible for all roads
which would be improved under the project. GRD is supported by consultants under the ongoing
Transport Project in developing appropriate management and monitoring systems for its road
network, including the determination of a work program, staffing requirements, job
classification, and training requirements. Advisors are also assisting GRD to review the road
network which it will retain under its own responsibility. This review is expected to be
completed before the start of the present study.
5.    The Organization and Management (O&M) study would be financed under the proposed
Rural Roads Project. The purpose of the study is to identify and inventory the non-GRD road
network (around 9,500 km) and to analyze, recommend and prepare to implement the most
appropriate system for assuring its administration, financing and maintenance.
B.   Objectives
6.    The objectives of the study are to:
(a)   identify and inventory the network of roads which are not managed by GRD, not
including urban streets or roads which are under the direct responsibility of
forestry or industrial enterprises;
(b)   assess the functions, legal responsibilities and capability of the main organizations
potentially involved in administering, financing and maintaining the non-GRD
road networkl;
(c)   recommend a system for administering, financing and maintaining the non-GRD
roads; and
(d)   recommend a practical plan for maintaining and improving the non-GRD roads,
estimate budgetary requirements, specify organizational responsibilities, and
propose a practical plan of implementation including transition and training
arrangements.
C.   Scope of Consultant Services
7.    The consultant will build upon the work under the Transport Project defining the
responsibilities of GRD, as well as on recent reforms of local Government. The study will
determine whether the best solution is to decentralize responsibilities to the communes or an
association of communes (decentralized solution), or centralize responsibility under GRD, e.g.,
through a sub-directorate for rural roads (centralized solution),. Other possibilities include a
mixture of GRD and main commune responsibilities, or to have GRD only intervene in the most
difficult tasks and provide technical assistance to the communes.  The consultant will liaise
closely with each of the organizations likely to play a role in administering non-GRD roads



-56-                           Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 4
including the Districts, representative communes, the DRDs, GRD, MLG and local contractors.
8.    The consultant will carry out, inter alia, the following tasks:
(a)   identify the non-GRD road network (expected to be around 9,500 km);
(b)   review the existing situation for managing non-GRD roads and determine the most
appropriate basis for dividing responsibilities between the various organizations
involved;
(c)   assess the capacity of GRD to administer additional roads with particular
emphasis upon the extent and role the field network of 28 DRDs could play in
maintaining these roads;
(d)   review and assess the legal responsibility, interest, and financial and technical
capacity of the Districts and representative Communes for maintaining non-GRD
roads,
(e)   review the responsibility and present role of central Government for funding the
maintenance of non-GRD roads;
(f)   assess the availability of local contracting capacity for road maintenance;
(g)   assess and recommend the most cost effective means of maintaining the non-GRD
network;
(h)   develop structures, job classifications, staffing requirements and the levels of
authority for the DRDs and/or other responsible organizations;
(i)   determine the training requirements and interim institutional support required to
carry out revised responsibilities;
Gj)   undertake an inventory of non-GRD roads, making maximum use of information
currently available with the DRDs, and supplementing it to ensure that a basic
knowledge of the length, structures and general condition are recorded together
with outline of the function of the road with estimates of population served and
numbers of villages connected in such a form that future development of the
inventory will be possible using local consultants;
(k)   define work methods, prepare an indicative work program which gives priority
to the conservation of existing roads and determine budgetary requirements and
sources for each responsible organization;
(1)   review  the existing legal instruments which would be used to transfer
responsibility to a new organization;
(m)   prepare a practical implementation for review and decision by Government; and



-57-                          Annex 3.8
Page 4 of 4
(n)   determine the legal and physical situation regarding right-of-way and the means
by which this may best be preserved or increased as may be required.
D.   Staffing and Time Schedule
9.    The study would be carried out in two phases, in order to expedite key Government
decisions which would be implemented under the proposed Rural Roads Project. Phase I would
identify the non-NRD roads and make preliminary administrative recommendations for
consideration by Government.  Phase II would include the preparation of detailed
recommendations following the receipt of comments on the Phase I report, plus the detailed
inventory of the network.
10.   It is envisaged that the above assignment would require the following skills, which
would need to be combined into a small number of staff assisted by local staff to carry out the
road inventory:
(a)   experience in the management of public works agencies preferably including
experience in Eastern Europe or other countries in transition from socialist to free
market economies;
(b)   experience in local Government administration and reform: and
(c)   experience in road maintenance programming and costing, small scale works, the
introduction of contract based systems, and working under conditions of severe
budgetary constraint.
E.   Reporting
9.    The consultant will prepare and submit the following reports in English:
(a)   Phase I Report (10 copies) within four months of commencement of works.
(b)   Draft Final Report (10 copies) within four months of receiving comments on the
Phase I Report;
(c)   Final Report (25 copies) within three weeks of receipt of comments on the Draft
Final Report.
M:AL ANIAFEEDERANNEX-3.3
Dsednbcr 15, 1994



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
GRD and Project Organization
Ministry of Construction
LGeneral Roads Directorate
|     ~~Director     l
Maintenance                 Planning          Technical        General Services      Freign
Department Manager          Department        Department       Department            Aid Department
Manas er          Manager          Manacaer             Mana ger
r                                                                                           -----------------------
Regional Roads      Specialists      Specialists    S    pecialists      Specialists                 -          Project
Directorates (5)    -road            -road data        -tendering and     - finances/                           Managers for:
(for national roads)    maintenance   bank             contracting          accounting          o               other priects!
-bridge         -traffic safety   -supervision and    - laws
maintenance     and standards     quality control
-planning/       -project economy
econom           and unit prices                                     .4 rl
-equipment
16lf9.*4



-59-
ALBANIA                             Annex 3.l
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                            Page 2 of 2
GRD and Project Organization
Ministry of Construction]
General Roads Directorate Contrct for TA and Supeision
TA
.~~~~~~ S
.............................-.,~*..
,~~~~~~~~~                                  .
Coope"an                                  T
Work Contracts
I  Suporvision....... ....................5i ..n  .........
| |   i 11   |  i1 11 i11     >         ~~~~~~TA
Notes:
- Prequalification and Tendering made by DRDs with guide-lines
prepared by Project Coordinator, supported by Engineer
- Evaluation of Prequalification and Tendering made by DRDs with guide-lines
prepared by Project Coordinator, supported by Engineer
Project Organization during Implementation
- Contractual Relations  -     -
- Lines of Command      ..........
- Technical Assistance (TA)
m asV.dupg3-.4



-60-                                  Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Improvement Program
Year 1 Defined Roads
(6 Contracts)
Road: No. and name              Type           Length            Works
cost
(km)      (in Million Lek)
Fiefi
Fie 18: Levani to Vjosa/Kashishti        PM/G             13.3              27.2
Fie 16: Pishi, Qarri and Bocova           PM              12.4              34.9
Fie 20: Levani to Shtyllasi               PM               3.8              13.7
Sub-total                    29.5              75.8
Fieri
Fie 1: Agimi to Hasfurcasi                PM               7.7              31.5
Fie 26: Mbrostari to Agami-               PM              12.5              41.3
Sub-total                   20.2               72.8
Lushnie
Lus 18: Guri to Karvastaja                G5               6.0              23.8
Lus 11: Bishcukasi to Germenj junct.      G3               6.3               7.6
Sub-total                    12.3              31.4
Lushnie
Lus 10: Lushnje to Hysgjokaj/Gjuzaj      PM/G            22.2               57.4
Sub-total                   45.7              124.4
Laci
Lac 1: Fushe Mamuras to Gorreja           G5              19.5              37.4
Sub-total                   20.2               72.8
Tirana
Tir 10: Kamza to Karasta                  PM               4.0               9.2
Tir. 6: Vaqari to Arbana/Vishaj           PM               8.9              23.6
Tir 16: Kashari                           PM               4.0              10.0
Sub-total                   24.6               62.8
TOTAL                                    152.5             440.0
2/2/95
m:\albania\feeder\ANNEX-3. 10



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Rowlew by IDIA and GOA of:
Po. Frbn I T.d prmedse
FPo nn GRD,'DRD. EVo
.Ccnshkn Fo7
Phs I of Implermntabon 
rsoF sroZo I          tI. Yo-tdoi db                        2naL Yoo M Condtdlo.                   3nt Y..,dCo .. dbni
er~~ =    --E                         -_______ ___E__. 
d              U.kw                                        --                                                                                     -  -  -  -                
MoMan  "Ad  wW
PF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
5  N  t t WKg                                                                                                                                                                         r
Ewhak.Fawd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~       ~  



-62-                                            Annex 3.11
Page 2 of 2
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Procurement Plan
Est. Cost (1)    Proc.    Issue of   Submission   Award of    Contract
Component                                 IUS$ Th.     Method    Document  of Bids/Proi.   Contrac    Comriletion
A. Road Works
1.) 1996 Works (7 packages, Annex 3.10)        5,000        LCB       Oct-95      Nov-95       Dec-95      Dec-96
2.) 1997 Works (about 20 packages) (2)        12,000        LCB       Oct-96      Nov-96       Dec-96       Dec-97
3.) 1998 Works (about 15 packages) (2)        12,510        LCB       Oct-97      Nov-97       Dec-97       Dec-98
Subtotal                                        29,510
B. Office and Transport Equipment
1.) Computer Equipment (1st package)              88         ICB     Aug-95       Sep-95       Oct-95       Dec-95
2.) Computer Equipment (2nd package)              90         ICB     Aug-96        Sep-96      Oct-96       Dec-96
3.) Transport Equipment 11st package)            275         ICB     Aug-95        Sep-95      Oct-95       Dec-95
4.) Transport Equipment (2nd package)            361         ICB      Aug-96       Sep-96      Oct-96       Dec-96
5.) Misc. Office Eq. for 97 (several packages)    54      LS/DC      Aug-95        Sep-95      Oct-95       Dec-95
6.) Misc. Office Eq. for 96 (several packages)    44      LS/DC       Aug-96       Sep-96      Oct-96       Dec-96
7.) Survey/Supervision Equipment                  24      LS/DC      Aug-95        Sep-95      Oct-95       Dec-95
8.) Procurement Services/ Handling Charges        94
Subtotal                                         1,030
C. Operational Costs
1.) Project Allowances                           154
2.) Operational Expenses                         246    -/LS/DC
Subtotal                                          400
D. Supervision of Works (A) above
Supervision by Internat. Consultant Team       1,210          SL      Apr-95      May-95       Jun-95       Dec-98
E. Technical Assistance and Training
1.) Technical Assistance                         360         SL
2.) Project Coordinator                          490         SL       Mar-95       Apr-95      Apr-95       Dec-98
3.) Training
(i) Study Tours to Western Europe              135          SL
(ii) In house training                          105         SL
E. 3.) Subtotal                               240
E. Subtotal                                      1,090
F. Organization and Manaaement Study
Preparation by Intern. Consultants               360         SL       Jul-95      Aug-95       Aug-95       Apr-96
Grand Total                                    33,600
47  All costs including contingencies.
(2) Packages for 1997 and 1998 Works are to be defined after the one-year pilot phase.
3/23/95
m:\albania\feeder\anex3-1 1.pg2



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING MATRIX
Note: this matrix provides preliminary advice and is to be revised at the time of the Inception Report and again in response to any changes proposed during
the Review and Evaluation required from the World Bank at the completion of Phase 1.
COMPONENT                           ACTIVITY                            PERFORMANCE INDICATOR               MONITORABLE TARGET
Initial Institutional Setup         Project coordination team created   State of team functioning           - appointment of all staff
- physical facilities in place, e.g.,
vehicle, and office space
International consultant appointed  State of recruitment                - contract signed
- resident team in place
Procurement of Project equipment    State of availability of equipmnent  - % age GRD equipment in place
- % age DRD equipment in place
- % age Consultant equipment in place
Project funding operational         - funds arriving from WB            - proportion of total received
- funds being disbursed for DRD's   - proportion of receipts disbursed for
- payments being made to consultants    the different operators (DRDs,
- letters of credit being opened     Consultants, suppliers)
Physical Road Improvement Works     Defune contract packages            Extent of roads deftned             - % age year I defined
- confirmation of priority for years 2
and 3 following traffic survey
- % age year 2 and 3 confirmed
Pre-qualification of contractors    Stage of completion:                - year I % age completed
- principle and documentation      - year 2 % age completed
- applications analysis by types   - year 3 % age completed
- selection
- pre-bid seminars held
Contract tendering operational      - documents available               - % age of total ready
- tenders returned and accepted    - % age of total issued
- contracts awarded                 - % age of total awarded



COMPONENT                           ACTIVITY                             PERFORMANCE INDICATOR               MONITORABLE TARGET
Actual road improvement work        Length completed                     - length completed as % age of 975
Contract payments made               km
- % age of total estimated cost spent
- length and cost by district and by
timetable as % age assumed in
Project Study/Inception Report
Institutional Support to Contractors  Contractors undertaking works in   - contractual problems arising      - number of problems arising from use
accord with FIDIC                   - measurement/billing problems arising   of FIDIC
- number of measurement/billing
problems arising
Courses in measurement and billing    Courses provided to all contractors  - % age completed
Contractors site management improved  Consultants input required for     - total time spent by consultants in this
introduction of improved practices   area
including labor and equipment
management
Institutional Support to Consultants  Build up of local consultants      Responsibility accepted by local    - % age staff recruited by consultant
consultants within Project          - % age local engineers working as
separate consultant groups
- % age legally separated
Institutional Support and Training to    Courses in contract management  Courses held with all Project Districts  - % age completed
GRD and DRDs                                                             and GRD
Assistance in project management    Levels of competence reached and     - extent of further support required as
reduced need for continued consultant    % age of time inputs estimated
training inputs
Training in office practices        Courses held with all Project Districts   - % age completed
Introduction of maintenance         Stage reached in each District       - extent of completion of target set in
management systems                                                        Inception Report: specify by District
Study tours                         Study tours executed                 - % age completion of planned
Benefit to participants              program
- number of persons completed study
tour
- extent of benefit reported by
participants
Establish Administrative and        -   Definition of Communes in        Length completed                    - Construction completed
Financing Arrangements for managing      charge                                                              - Maintenance under implementation
non-ORD roads.                      -   Budget Allocations                                                   - Payments made
m:Aaibania\feeder\annex3 .12



-65-
Annex 3.13
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements*
(US$ million)
IDA FY              Estimated         Disbursement           Schedule
(CumulMive %)          Quarter           Cumulative
FY 1996
September 30, 1995
December 31, 1995               9                 1.4                 1.4
March 31, 1996                 11                 0.3                 1.7
June 30, 1996                  13                 0.3                 2.0
FY 1997
September 30, 1996             16                 0.4                 2.4
December 31, 1996              19                 0.5                 2.9
March 31, 1997                 23                 0.6                 3.5
June 30, 1997                  28                 0.7                 4.2
FY 1998
September 30, 1997             35                 1.0                 5.2
December 31, 1997              42                 1.2                 6.4
March 31, 1998                 53                 1.5                 7.9
June 30, 1998                  64                 1.7                 9.6
FY 1999
September 30, 1998             74                 1.5                11.1
December 31, 1998              84                 1.5                12.6
March 31, 1999                 93                 1.4                14.0
June 30, 1999                  100                1.0                15.0
Credit effectiveness estimated in 2nd. quarter 1995 (para. 3.31).
\,I:bsa:i%Vo1\ca\x-3.13



-66-
Annex 3.14
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
Direct and Indirect impacts of the Project
and Mitigation Measures to be taken
1.   Improvement of rural roads can have important effects upon the physical environment.
Direct impacts may be anticipated only in the immediate environs of the improved roads, whilst
indirect impacts will gradually arise, and over a wider area, as a consequence of improved
access.
2.   In the proposed project, direct environmental impacts are anticipated to be very limited
because:
3     no new roads will be constructed
*     only existing alignments will be used
3     improved access is focused upon areas with high agricultural production and will
not provide access to areas with sensitive ecosystems or to forest areas where
unregulated exploitation could arise
3.    However, there are three areas in which indirect adverse impacts could arise:
e     use of mineral reserves in previously unexploited river beds for road gravel
e     additional dust problems along roads, particularly in villages
3     erosion from gravel roads
Satisfactory solutions to all these potentially adverse impact factors have been formulated
in the project.
4.    River bed gravels. The use of river gravel is likely to permit substantial savings in
transport cost compared with past stone production systems which were centralized and involved
very long haulage distances. Recently, numerous small private crushing plants have arisen,
generally in river beds, to exploit more easily accessible resources. This trend is likely to
continue and be encouraged by the sales to the project. The benefits of reduction in vehicle
pollution will accordingly be countered by possible damage in river beds. In the proposed
project, all contracts would designate the non-sensitive bed areas for gravel sources, with the
project management retaining the power to prohibit the unlikely use of any potentially sensitive
river bed area.
5.    Dust. Dust is a severe problem on gravel and earth roads in Albania. It is particularly
grave during the dry summer period. The project has addressed this problem by including
penetration macadam (PM) road sections through most villages, complemented with the
construction of roadside drainage to improve the awful conditions caused by water in most



-67-
Annex 3.14
Page 2 of 2
villages during the winter. The additional expenditure included in the project for such road
paving and drainage in villages will substantially improve living conditions for around 100,000
people living in villages and settlements in the area of the project. This improvement will
particularly be helpful to women and children who spend most of their time in the villages and
necessarily move along the roads for unfortunate tasks such as transporting household water
supplies and firewood.
6.    Erosion. Erosion from gravel roads can choke watercourses adjacent to the road. This
condition is most likely to arise on steep roads in areas of high rainfall, following a lack of
maintenance, or because of poor grain size distribution in the gravel, or because of poor
compaction. The project has a limited length of steep section in high rainfall areas and answers
these problems through a mandatory selection of gravel in every contract to prevent poor grain
distribution, and specific compaction requirements. It also includes assistance in improving
technical specifications and practices for maintenance, and it ensures adequate maintenance
budgets for all project roads.
7.    The increase of economic activity and agricultural production, and the easier connection
among the villages could increase the use of chemicals in agriculture and facilitate outwards
immigration. However, adverse effects from increases in the use of chemicals should be kept
within reason because the improved roads will also facilitate existing agriculture advice services.
Outward migration would diminish because the improved access to health, education, and
business opportunities facilitated by better roads would provide a strong stimulus to staying in
the villages.
8.    All contracts require proper disposal of waste materials generated during construction as
well as proper sanitary waste disposal for labor intensive crews.
M :\abnia\fciet\umc-3 .14



ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Factors Considered for Selecting Project Districts
District               Agricultural Potential                 Social Support                        Population                      Complementary
InvestinentsUb
% or land     Persons
% of                      with less      Receiving                                                               Proposed IDA  Proposed
Agricultural   Production   than 5%      Economic      Number                   Density     % of      No. of     Irrigation     IFAD or
Value Added  (lek/capita)   gradient     Assistance    Unemployed    1990       (pop/km2)   Albania  Commune  Project (ha)    RPAPP
_                         Project
Coastal Area
Lushnja                   9.0       6,711            72          2,137         8,985      137,830      194         4         15         17,570
DurresiUKavaja            8.9       5,004            59          6,306        29,064      251,029      296         8         16         19,570
Kruja/Laci                4.1       4,925            74          4,722        12,379      109,876      181         3          8         14,835
FierilMallakastra        11.2       4,605            58          3,179        17,803      251,115      214         8         20         14,815
Tirana                    5.2       4,037            29         10,589        44,363      374,483      303        12         17          6,696
Shkodra/M.Madhe           8.6       3,953            79         18,674        30,310      241,549       96         7         20
Lezha                     3.2       4,646            90          2,440         3,971       63,505      133         2          9
Peqini/Elbasani           8.1       4,320            25          7,389        28,715      248,676      168         8         26
Vbora                     4.7       4,219            40          3.503         9.105      180.725      112         6         If
Subtotal                 63.0                                   58,939       184,695    1,858,788                 58        142         73,486
00
Korea Area
Korca/Devo1i              8.7       4,872            49          3,387         8,926      218,219      104         7         19
Poeradeci                 1.8       4,852            14          1.908         5.723       73333       101                    7 7                     yes
Subtotal                 10.5                                    5,295        14,649      291,552                  9         26
Other
Kolonja                   1.0       5,795            19           310          2,978       25,291       31         1          6
Gjirokastra               2.4       5,678            54           660          4,102       67,392       59         2         11
Saranda/Delvina           4.1       5,343            45           631          6,569       89,459       82         3          9
Permeti                   1.3       4,593            20           160          2,960       40,419       44         1          6
BeratiWKucova             5.0       3,633            22          4,833        19,759      180,489      176         6         12
Skrapari                  1.1       3,574             4           358          5,906       47,605       61         1          8                       yes
Tepelena                  1.0       3,297            14          1,471         2,237       51,022       63         2          8
Gramshi                   1.0       2,752            11          2,110         4,684       44,791       63         1          9                       yes
Tropoja                   0.8       2,514            15         3,320          7,365       45,965      303         1          7                       yes
Mirdits                   0.7       2,278            20         3,350          4,385       51,701       77         2          7                       yes
MatilBulqiza              1.2       2,048            13          5,185        14,408       78,754       77         2         18                       yes
Kukesi/Hasi               1.7       1,945           20          10,819        12,388      104,731       79         3         16                       yes
Dibra                     2.9       1,876           34           1,504         6,720      153,775       98         5         13                       yes
Librazhdi                 1.7       1,793           20           1,732         7,013       73,871       73         2          9                       yes  ' I>
Puka                                1,187            13          4.811         3.306       50,286       49                    7                       Yes  m 3
TOTAL ALBANIA           100.0                                  105,488       304,124    3,255,891                100        314
Source: 1991 Statistica Yearbook; Ministry of Labor (10/93 statistics).                                                                                      or
(I) does not include 475 km of forest roads under proposed IDA Integrated Forest Management Project.
M:wAaib..kf.e knua4.I Date: 09-27-94                                             .



-69-
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation'
1.    Traffic: Traffic surveys were undertaken in April and July 1994 on 37 of the 90 roads
in the project area. The survey took place on one normal week day during either a 16 or 24
hour period, with vehicles classified into eight categories.   These figures (excluding animal
traffic and motorcycles) were adjusted to an annual basis by reducing them by 8 percent to allow
for lower weekend traffic, and by a further 20 percent to allow for the surveys being carried out
during the growing season. Results are shown in the Attachment. Traffic levels were then
correlated with the population, agricultural area and the value of agricultural production of the
area served by each road section in the project. The best fit was obtained by weighting
agricultural production 60% and population 40%, with an average error of 15% in the estimated
traffic level. This relationship was then used to estimate traffic levels on project roads where
traffic surveys were not carried out.
2.    Traffic was projected from 1994 to 2004 taking into account recent traffic trends, the
current level of motorization in Albania and trends in other countries, projected GNP growth
and agricultural potential. Albania's road vehicle fleet doubled in size from 1992 to 1994 (Table
1.2). The most recent growth rates are also high, with car registrations increasing 26 percent
and truck registrations 16 percent during the first three months of 1994. The passenger car fleet
is expected to grow at more than double the rate of GNP on average for at least the next several
years (para. 1.10). The balance of the road vehicle fleet is likely to grow at a slightly slower
rate.
3.    Agricultural forecasts were also prepared for each irrigated and non-irrigated area within
the project region by type of terrain. The value of agricultural output is generally expected to
increase by 50-100 percent in these areas, as detailed in the ITECO study. Taking all these
factors into account, traffic was forecast to grow 40 percent from the end of 1993 to mid-1995,
with the growth rate then slowing to six percent p.a. thereafter until 2004. This implies Albanian
vehicle registration levels in 2004 of 135 vehicles per 1,000 people, which is 85 percent of the
level achieved in Bulgaria, or 54 percent of the level achieved in Greece, in 1991. Traffic
forecasts are, therefore, considered to be conservative.
4.    The surveys revealed that traffic on some road sections was suppressed due to their poor
condition, and these roads were not included in the above statistical analysis (para. 1). In order
not to overestimate project benefits on these sections, 50 percent of the traffic on "bad" sections,
'The report 'Albania Feeder Roads Study' prepared by consultants ITECO dated July 1994 contains
additional information on the economic evaluation.



-70-
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
25 percent of the traffic on "poor" sections, and 10 percent on "fair" sections, was considered
to be induced traffic. Corresponding project benefits were reduced by 50 percent in accordance
with conventional practice.
5.    Economic Costs: The engineering cost estimates (including the cost of supervision and
physical contingencies) were adjusted to take into account economic distortions and to remove
taxes which are transfer payments. Labor costs comprise around 45 percent of construction
costs. Since unemployment is estimated to be around 30 percent, the cost of unskilled labor was
valued at 50 percent of the wage rate (skilled labor was valued at 100 percent of the wage rate).
This adjustment reduced the cost of constructing both gravel and bitumen surfaced roads by 19.2
percent. Diesel fuel presently has a real tax element (retail price less border price plus the cost
of distribution) of about 50 percent. Since diesel fuel comprises an estimated 37 percent of the
cost of constructing gravel roads (due to relatively long material haulage distances) and 20
percent of the cost of bitumen roads, their costs were reduced by 18.5 and 10 percent
respectively. The cost for both types of construction were also reduced by 10 percent to account
for the estimated tax component of material costs.  Bitumen accounts for approximately 23
percent of the cost of paved roads. The domestic price of bitumen is about 50 percent of the
world price, so that the economic cost of bitumen surfaced roads was increased by 23 percent
to compensate for this underpricing. In summary, the financial costs of gravel surfaced roads
were reduced by 52.7 percent and bitumen roads by 21.2 percent in the economic evaluation.
The construction costs for each road section are listed in Annex 3.2.
6.    Economic maintenance costs were based on engineering cost estimates, adjusted in the
same way as construction costs (para. 5). Routine maintenance costs for new bitumen roads
were estimated to increase from 19,000 lek/km in 1995 to 65,000 lek/km in 2003; it was also
assumed the road would be resealed in 2006 at a cost of 873,000 lek/km. Maintenance of
existing bitumen roads was estimated to cost 89,000 lek/km. Routine maintenance costs for
improved gravel roads are expected to range between 25,000 and 43,000 leks/km according to
age and traffic level. It was estimated that these roads would need to be regravelled in 2004 at
a cost ranging from 231,000 to 1,348,000 lek/km according to terrain and traffic level. The cost
of maintaining (but not improving) existing gravel roads was estimated to be 20,000 lek/km.
7.    Vehicle Operating Costs: Vehicle operating costs (voc) were estimated using the Banks
HDM-III model. Model equations were adjusted to take into account the poor condition of roads
in Albania. Most of the existing roads were made from large stones, as in medieval or earlier
times, and overlaid with a cosmetic skin of gravel or penetration macadam which has now
largely disappeared due to lack of maintenance. Many of these roads are so rough that travel
is restricted to 5-10 km per hour. Roughness, as measured on the international roughness index
(IRI), could be as high as 30 m/km. The HDM-III model (and other known models) are not
calibrated to accommodate this high degree of roughness. The HDM m equations were,
therefore, extrapolated to provide voc estimates.  IRIs were estimated to average 6.5 on
improved paved roads, 8.0 on improved gravel roads, 12.0 on all roads in "fair" condition, 16.0
for all roads in "poor" condition, and 23.0 for all roads in "bad" condition.  Taking into



-71-
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
account the composition of motorized vehicles observed on the project roads, the corresponding
average vehicle operating costs were estimated to be 3.7, 8.0, 12.0, 46.0, and 65 lek/km
respectively.
8.    Albania does not yet assemble statistics on vehicle operating costs. HDM III inputs
were, therefore, estimated using typical international values, modified to take into account local
economic conditions. Unskilled labor was valued at 252 leks/day, the same value as used in the
analysis of construction costs. A nominal value of passenger travel time was included (57.3
lek/car/1000 km and 745 leklbus/1000 km) Vehicle spare parts were valued at 40 percent of
their international price to take into account the significant amount of cannibalization which takes
place.
9.    Analysis Period: Proposed road improvements were evaluated for a ten-year period.
The residual value of the improvements in year ten was taken as a project benefit, assuming
proper maintenance as discussed. Residual values were estimated to consist of 80 percent of the
value of the base and sub-base, 75 percent of the value of the gravel surface and 27 percent of
the pavement, 25 percent of drainage works, 50 percent of drainage walls and concrete works,
and 60 percent of village works. The costs of periodic maintenance were prorated.
10.   Design Standards: The expected lifetime cost of a five meter penetration macadam road
(construction, maintenance and vehicle operating costs) was compared with that of a five meter
gravel road. Gravel is not normally available near roads located in flat (irrigated) areas which
comprise most of the project (haulage distances are frequently greater than 15 km). A second
factor which favors the choice of paved roads is the expected rapid growth of traffic discussed
above (para. 3). A rough calculation based on generalized costs indicates that it may be more
economic to pave roads which carry as little as 100 vpd in 1994 (180 vpd expected by 2000),
or about 90 percent of project roads. In order to be conservative, it was assumed that only
roads carrying more than 250 vpd in 2000 would be paved, or about 60 percent of project roads
(Annex 3.2). Calculations would be refined on a road by road basis, and design standards
finalized, during project implementation.



- 72 -                                                         Annex 4.2
Attachment
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Traffic Survey
(Survey in July 4-7, 1994 except Lushnje April 21, 1994)
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  |Eti mna ek
Medium       Heavy                  Agric.      Horse    otorimaze
District and Road    Hours   T        Total         Cars        LV       Buses    Trucks   Trucks   M Bike   Tractor                Cart    AADT
Dev I :Potoska            16                 601.        200        151          261        82          30         20       __3
24 #               6931
Dev 7: Bilishti           16                 3131         88         80           6         38           4          2          33          82          179
24 #               361
Dev 12 :Vranishti         16                 387          48         33           8         14           6         44          74         180         132
24 #               446             ___                                                      I
Dur 1 Maminasi            16                 602        249         130           4         54          14         86          23          42         341
at Tirana Road   24                 6871        272        1551          4         63          16         97          28          52          387
Dur1  Hamallaj            16                 715         275        114           8         65          55         94          63          41         4181
atManza         24                  772        296         120           8         74         60         110          63         41          447
Dur 3 KatundiiRi          16                 751;        248        160          20        116          32         83          50          42         451
atKatundi        24                  885i       297         196         20         141          32         93          61         45          538
Dur 3 Katundi i Ri        16                1,317        827        186          39         86          18         71          46          441        865'
atTirana Road   24                 1.402        857        2041         41         96          18         79          54          53          914
1Dur 16 Hamallaj          16                 3468        120          93         12          47          19         44          65         68          256
at Shackafane      24                 513         132        102          12         53          22         48          701         74         282
Fie 1: Agami              16        |        150          41         171          0         11           2         23          24          32           68
24                 171          47         19t          0         12           2         26          281         37          78
Fie8  Strumi              16                 322          47         20          13         S0           0           9         81         102          152'
24                 384          53         29          13         62           0           9,       109         109          192
Fie9  Fien                16                 555          85         82.         291        61          52          80         89          77          2871
24                 634          95         97          29         77          52         91         104          89         3271
Fie 13 Topoja             16                 960         228        175          58        195           0        109         106          91          5471
24               1,143.        271        200          65        231           0        122         136         118         6501
|Fie16 TiranaRd           16                  283         40          63         10          32          9          41          52         36          148.
24                 381          50         74          19         49          13         54          74          48         201'
;Fie18 Levani             16                  230         92          24         13          25           9         29          24          14         135
24                 275!        100         29          141        29           9         36          36          22          156
Fie20  Levani             16                  87          18         29           ol         14          6           3         11           6           56
24                 115          23         32           0         14           8           4         20          14!          70'
Fie27: Fieri              1s                 146          28         19          141        16          18          10         24          171          86
24                 168          33         21_         16]        18          19          13         311         17           99
Kav1  Golemi              16                 979         329        217           01        77          10        100         126         120;         5468
24               1,199         400        254           0'       104          10        130         161         140         669'
,Kav rVorrozenit          16                  895        227         1921         81         86           4         76         128        176          4631
24               1,104         272        227          101       112           4        111         161         207         566
Kav 6: Luzi Madh          16                1,612        716        228           8        124          30         198        160         148          912
24                1.917'       790        273          11        154          30        243         214         202        1060
Kav8: Gose                16               2.0,49        810        346           9        288          55        226         154         161        1197
24               2.3621        890        377          10        333          601       263         214         215         1356
Kor1 :Korce               16        1        6391        135        129          49        101           0l        68          45         112          330
24        I        646         138        131          51        101           01        68          45         112          336
Kor2: Voskopi             16                  651         23         13          11          14          l          0          4           0           47
24#                 75
Kor8: Polena              18                 187|         53         16          10         52           1          17         19          19          109
24 #               216
Kor21 :Zvezda             16                 234          45         49          10         51          33           7         18          21          148
24 #               270  _ _ _                                                               L _ _                               I
KruI: TiranaRd            16                 160|         35         231          0          14         16         21          281         23           84
24 #               184
Kru 8:VoraRd              16                 208          77         301          0         20           5          13         30          33          117
24                 217          81         32           0         20           5         14          32          33          122
Kru 9: Vora Rd            16                 423         103         54           6         17           7         65          80          91          192
24                 5241        131         62           9         26           7         75         100         114         241
KruI1: TiranaRd           16                 374         174         78           21        42           0         27          24          27          230
248S               431                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Lac I  rirana Rd          16                 108          32          6           0          4           2           6-        40          18           80
24 #               125
Lac 5Road10               16                 349          62         19           2         35           5           7        164          55          2071
24 #               402
Lac6 Gurez                16                 170          62         23           0         28           4           5         31          17          107
248#               196
Lac10 :RoadS              18s                349         133         30           1         16           7           8        120          34         221
248#               402                                                                         ___
ILUS2 Gun                 18i                 186         45          33          8          42          6           9          25         18          114
248#               214
Lus 6  Pluk               16                 318         174         92           0          6           0           0         15          31         207
24 #               367
Lus7: Bubullima           18                 279         127         57          11         57           0           0          0          27          181i
24 8               322
Lus8 :Roupai              16                  75          36         12           4!         6           0          10         0a           7           42
248                 86e
Lus 10: Kharaj            16                  75          Is         10|          8         27           4           3          o           7           47
24#                 88        _
Average_% *ge                                          34%    17%              2%         11%         3%          9%         11% _        %
8 16 hour figures adusted to 24 hours by measured average night factor of 15.5 %
Figures for Lushnje adjusted with 10 % horse carts
Exdudes animal traftic and motor bikes.
m:%aIbaniaVeederVorecast.wk4 - 01/31/95



-73-
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Documentation in Project Files
1.   Albania: Report of Advisory Mission on Road Infrastructure Management in Albania,
UN/DESD Project, June 1992.
2.   Albania: An Agricultural Strategy for Albania, World Bank/European Community,
October 1992.
3.   Albania: Technical Assistance to MTC and GRD under the Transport Project, Danish
Road Directorate, September 1993.
4.   Albania Public Investment Program 1994-96, October 1993.
5.   Albania Country Strategy Paper, February 28, 1994.
6.   Albania Feeder (Rural) Roads Study - Preliminary Report, ITECO, February 1994.
7.   Albania Road Traffic Counts, June 30, 1994.
8.   Albania Feeder (Rural) Roads Study, ITECO, Tirana, July 1994 including:
(i)   Report;
(ii)   Annex 1: Background Documentation;
(iii) Annex 2: Improvement Measures and Engineer's Cost Estimate;
(iv)  Annex 3: Prequalification and Tender Documents (without Bills of
Quantity); and
(v)   Annex 4: Bills of Quantity.
9.   Albania Feeder (Rural) Roads Study - Supplementary Report, ITECO, Affoltern a/A,
December 1994.
mJb.iaUhcdniaflm1-S. I.



ALBANIA
Rural Roads Project
Organization Chart of MOC and GRD
MINISTER
General Roads                       Inst. No. 1 and 4    Inst. No. 2     Inst. No. 3                        AIrt. of Geology  lInt. of
Directorate                         DeveltUrban      for Studies and  Hydropower         and         Construction
and Buldinme    lRoad, Bridge and  and Dams        Geodesy       Technology         Planning and
R aiwayl Design                                                   Csdssre Do t
l Housingl   | 
Maintenance                                    Planning    |                                                                                n    Depsrtmenc
Department                                  Department                                                                                              ailment
maintenance of roads                      -road data bank                                                                                         DenmtI
maintenance of bridges                    - road inventory                                                                                   2    Investment n
winter service                              road planning                                                                                        Department
maintenance management
I                    ,                                .r Dvelopmnt nd
Coordi nato
Technical                                     General                        Foreign Aid                                                        Depaitmnt
Department                                     Service                        Deparatment
Department                           .ea
designs                                   - personnel                      - Design, Procurement                                                 Department
surveying                                 - finance                          Surveying, Construction
construction supervision                  - administration                   of foreign aid programs
research                                  - training                         and projects.
equipment                                 - legislation                    - Coordination of
external aid.1
SOURCE: MOC and ITECO
July 1994
m:Wbmr\F*b"\CHART-I SAR - 1/31/96



-75-                                        Chart 2
ALBANIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Organization of District Road Directorates
GENERAL ROAD          ll                        Minister of   l
DIRECTODRATE         IConstruction
and Tourism
DISTRICT ROAD                                    District
DIRECTORATE           (informal advice,   Authority  President
minor road works)
Plantniing9  |              FiAnceut Setind    |ehnical                  || Transport and |
Section    Accounts Section]~~~~              Sc tion                   Eauipment Section
Stores,
Lao =G_ng                                                           Workshop
|lengthmen  |equipment
Labor Gang/          eda 
lengthmen
etc.
Each headman is responsible for 30 - 50 km of roads
depending upon road tVpe and construction.
Source:   NRD and ITECO.
January 1995
MAALBANIA\FEEOER CHART2.SAR
1131/96






IBRD 26234
hER0 ' 120                         21
ALBANIA                                                             FED REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SOUTHERN  DISTRICTS                                                             , FoBRD 26232
PROJECT ROADS:                                                                                 I'< ,<Shengiln   | 0-
PENETRATION MACADAM SURFACED               0 Q  SELECTED CITIES                                                    FYR
GRAVEL SURFACED, 5.50 METERS                 DISTRICT CENTERS                               II -              MACEDONIA
IIlb__  Tirandl
84     ROAD REFERENCE NUMBERS                         RIVERS                             Adricoti   ' |    * A
D DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                   Soa      1      B A N_       |
NATIONAL ROADS                          _ .   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
For DefoiI Suee    RA -
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                    I iBRD 26233    OF
,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IJ o 'iv  s                      .I-I                    I
I \  *   / /                     /  ITALY'        I 
40'          I - - _,                   40G
~~1               T~~~~~ ~ GREECE
Lake                    S Sea
LIBRA_ ZHfDfs    t0/                                  -   Ohrid                                 2.
ELBASAN                      / _-                                                             FYR
_,, _   .. ,,  -   _.          )               t  i           \           gMACEDONIA,
-    Prespes
SGRAMSH
danorn'*o.,ons and any              IPodgorija
i,nply on t.f port o34F
orany_- _. SvendorsZa    a                                             '-a
\ ) _ / 4b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reimbeci                                                    00 WJ
X   \   9                     4           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOR(; 3\               Vrqnihti  Trenii
or .cetneo uh    ,                 I                   5,l.CLsr                                 1
,~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iss t<Z< j
rhsfoundar,as  con                                        INJtJJ                                    0 .                       10 Mie
naher mbommohon shern parima~ '  > /   _   |  ^    F;Ui1- 19
rhe Wond ooni Group  ^           > .        *                  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r' h 
rhh.    -ofon  eri hry -j-,                                                                    S4   I      
orp  oyedonmn .                                                   *-t of,W_   
or occephnce of such    ,  o   \   w       ~~~~~~~KOLONJE                            0             5 o  g         MOiles
FEBRUAARY 1 995






1s_ 8, 30'                     19'00'                   19,10'                   20-00'                   22 1'0
t\ - '.<.i                                    .J  i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL REPUBLIC bF YUGOSLAVIA
CRO,kTIA  j                                                       . X,-. 
42-30-                 ;       <                                                      l  {Volbo..      \                                            42930'
--VL H(PIikE~~~~~~opik  A,. S'
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                               k                                   
-49' ADDITIONAL ROADS                                          >        -                  .ru,    !          |                 iv20
M   PENETRATION MACADAM SURFACED                                                               ,:\''')   i,   K 0 K E 5  
Cl SELECrED CMES                              VS4giiN            >/ RDlE                  _          i 
69)  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     @      oehn             O5 
NATIONAL ROADS                                            u       t        /     : RDIBERi
'''RAltROADS                                                                                 P j  \ .hkpi     
--RIVERS                                      Fushel Kugo  LA  Ltorf, A       ~     !         \
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                             J$        Mnrs  Brr,MA   
INTERNATIONAL aOUNDARIES                                    K   h  ?\\)FYR Jl30
8 t  F        - 3    IBULIZEWMACEDONIA
i   Kotoj  h i ^           ~~~i tBRAZHD    
,1  5sJ   (  t _  .  ~~rob's  Lj,Qb.ohd    >
:  I; , Z i; t             ;         t     H PE O 9h~~~~~~PEON  lbaan\    a     9 
)    E I B  A    S     A~ELASN '           
'-NJE/YjM,1                                 R/;                    -    '
nsz_m - , Oi    d o                          < ~~~~~~~~~LIVMriS     _                '     .       
o   ^.s  dC  ....... d vr.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                         o   hrThW..........1Fj 5*\zt n ,-    
-3-30   lrtoo        , \      4     f         SBERATt.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.mh  JOC          //DVt  
, A- -.  d.    -6  'n.J W" ,_A.E A O- Eo
a |             j-'        <      AFAI    ;v         - 40'00'                              '       ,       _                                      40'300
{   t t-5'-    t                                                q  : Dj3>D}e2vin^;t  !~~~~~~~~~~-d
-<!   ,,e &, _,--_ \/ 8~~~Vi
1Ws  \,M,S5A'\ ,UICA-'^                                 Soro~~~~~NEt5.k_                      GEC
fsCti----j f | tSARANDE) do lo 20 30 40 50~KOION 
_  ur  ,                    e                                            9,^!                          KllL>EtERS              W~~~~~~~~~~PRME
_  x          Ar                                      19@30~~~~~~~~~~~LO       2 -00                    20'0 yr0'                            iJ






HER? &")    FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                                                    \AR,..                Burrel
i       Mortmurasi. ',
,  J/For DuJFOd, Seeu  '. KDURRES                                                     -  '
'    I BRD 26232  \                                                     ,
A  3  nD2n                  2                                                         K
FYR                                           amcJiDOj
I,-                  i                                                    3d,ht                   F      ),i
ITALY, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .oe30                           />
I MACEDONIA
A-riGKiEAdriatic :                                                                  . r                   (d j 
AALBANIlikTRN
I.cnSea        ----  -,                                               urii&aaj         ols hke(                   
41'Sr                                     41-                               4
AREA                    --         Por1to R                                            P SI  rK
I 1MG 26234 ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     M
ALAIA                                            5p            i >;ku9H4goa                                       
VIm       : IBR 223                         Dur   *         ozol   1 7   /
--Y---~- -
ITALY
40''                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~                      ~~GREECE  Aditc Golmoasi6
21-                      R~~~~~okuII461i Kovoj    Mce l
ALBANIA1-S a                                                          ~~EBAA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                               ,.i5       b                    *       
DURRES5AND3SO3UTHERN                                          Fam M8iIsl- 8< 5eoabnrePslm
(    )~~~~~~~ ssk i Siperm                          - Kup                  t
PROJECT ROADS                                      aa                   oe                   iA
PENETRATION MACADAM SURFACED                   J            IR      !Fe        649 Kjn 
-   GRAVEL SURFACED. 5.50 MtETERS /5  ,*Almrs  
_   GRAVEL SURFACED, 3.50 METERS              gs         'a         \              >5    ge,r 
76    ROAD REFERENCE NUMRERS                          -r                                                          EA 
- NATIONAL ROADS   )    i
GRAVEL ROADS                                  \\a   /    >   Kosh, i        L2  iGoovaS
C:10 SELECTED CITIES                                    /Bsh                         [                                                       J
   NATIONAL CAPITAL  $q*  >*
RIVERS                                     2o urk      %1 40            rXlyherina              _o\                                 9.
-   -   DISTRICT ROUNDARIES                 \Jj>m}v  
-  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            V      l     j     Sa   us
o   5  lo1I0j                                            rk m                         t               .           \Tpin I
o         5         10      1215.,                                  \                            J-       4
Spll     13    idi       rogozkinaE      PEQENE 
RURAL~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ \ ROD PROJOECTE  \ 
>   nwzv-csof #  sie2   w                                  -                   W       J      |  \    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Gjirokoster<  w
_ __________________________                                                                                            9        DELVINE    t          o






Z            I :n RFP  FF    SLAVIA
- \  tR (    AREA  ;
JP I3'OF                                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC                              . 4i OF YUGOSLAVIA
.42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
__  ______       - MACEDONIA                                         !
Adriatic                     2                                                     i)
41,  Seo                                    Alt                                                                         C Y .  0,oIbono
IBRD 233 :For Deai,                                                                                            TROPOJE
VI-      :I jIBRD 26234,1_
ITALY'-
IIAIY,        _________________               '1,T e,*(                                                    ;%      ..C                              9
T:RANE AND NORTHGREECE                                                                     SHKODER
S-Il   t       4'  -7 / 'J                                                                                                   F,{<      Ferzei
Kalimeti ii VoI ,PUKE/
\-   /  5 4    \         ,          . R         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pukii
ALBANIA >>(\)- 
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TIRAVE AND NORTHERN S
DISTRICT S
i   '~~~  i      <    769   \a '_          '  
NATIONAL CArobPhITAL                                MIRDITE            s
PROJECT ROADS:ARES
_   PENETRATION MAACADAM SURFACED                                                 Lezhe    Rubike             rse             Ku?bneshi0 
GRAVEL SURFACED, 5.50 METERS                                               e                    n                                    . 
-   GRAVEL SURFACED, 3.50 METERS                                              5'i*f6                                                .
50    ROAD REFERENCE NUMBERS                       Adriatic                                 Zee n lm 0_   \
-    NATIONALTROADS BOSNDARIE
GRAVEL ROADS                                                         Fush' u_~   
5ELECTED CITIES 
()DISTRir CCENTERS                                                           .t              Son.h k     '               
RIVERS                                            ~~~~~~~~Shelinzo      ura LA                     Burrel   (       A
RIVERS                                       ~~~~DURRES    Mouoi'           (                                    \
-  '~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES M   
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          |\z       .          t          r    i ,          
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \  M &i a  I t, _s
ie~~~                                          BN d   yl TIRANE i 
0  5     10    15    20 Ki6.                                                                                                                D     
OI          I           I                                 DurKh,TRN
0 5                  10      15M,Io                                                          Vo1ri
_                                           n        X            X         KaSaj-  Greni ,-*  Ni  ~~~~~~~~~             ~    ~~ELBASAN   
t  %iww" ,yr er  rr Drar    AA     
< Grwp o y l- bm rP 11 ~~~~~~AV ruoey_i , sox1\./nA a.
O ffi/lwrswhzac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOrhbno I a-ruN-    






I18'230'                 1900!                    1,,'                                               20'30                    21 00
For Detaii  i  \   FEDERAL  ZEPUBLIC  OF YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA                                             IBRD 26232k  
42130'                                                                                                                                                 A2'30'
ALBANIA ~ ~ ~~~~~~ALS
.                 >     ./ fiE ~~~~~~~~~~MADHEt     TROyOJE    bXt
:                    Won ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i Hohfi l   Bcur mG
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                          '                   d  D K mo,
42-00'     PROJECT DISTRICTS                                                                                                                            2 00
' PROJECT DISTRICTS                                                                                                              j
O    SELECrED CITIES
*    DISTRICT CENTERS                              Shgn                        DIT1
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                             b o h'
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                             IE
--     RAILROADS
-~RIVERS                                      F,iKg
-  *- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-~ -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
fLEVATIONS IN METERS.                                                                                                    F Y  R         Al30
f.    Y      .. v  E . :\BUtSULIZ'  MACEDONIA
1200
R200                                      D urr.
.. w- w-lS^r . 'tQLBRAZHD 
1..,44,_ _
'          \s.A  -. IR                          Forv Detil                                                                 F   De,
IBRD 26233                            STyR~~~~E, A A             IBR   26234        '
IB'30'                  19,00' , ER  KCE t1
uH r t z u-e 3 i < 1 X ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAA                                    KRAPAR7 lih
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q                                                                                                           0 ,,_t>- ...............  { . ,Vornrhs.10301
,, ,, tE , w5 ._ \ ^ Lvrovet / Rsr#~~~~PELENE kk_   
1la~~' bj -',/  U    Fr                                                             S!le
MIAMA.92    \'   UII   '                                                         SA -   'S rANdDREC
5   .4XSANA'>_'        j                                                i tI gARANDEt~~~~~~~~~~~VLO  Kc,  )to 20  3     40   5
....                                                                                               Er,k  .190'  200  20    0  OF0  2100'
/~~~~~~FrDti












