Report No. 828a-CD                                                          FILE COPY
Appraisal of
Lake Chad Polders Project
*Chad
October 16, 1975
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
M
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               CFAF Franc
US$1                =       CFAF 225
CFAF 1              =       US$0.0044
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
l kilometer (km)            0.6215 mile
1 centimeter (cm)           0.033 feet
l hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
1 metric ton                2,207 lb]
1 kilogram (kg)             2.207 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDF      African Developwent Fund
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coopération Econouique
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FDAR      Fonds d'Action et de Développement Rural
FEU       Fonds Européen de Développement
GMT       Grands Moulins du Tchad
ITA       Ingénieur des Travaux Agricples
ITR       Ingénieur des Travaux Ruraux
MA        Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Eaux
et Forêts
MATE      Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de
li'Environnement
ONDR      Office National Pour le Développement Rural
SODELAC   Société de Développement du Lac



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............       ................  i - vii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ........................................         1
II.   BACKGROUND  ..* .....* ...................                     2
A. General              ......................                2
B.   The Rural Sector  ...............................        2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA    ....................................       5
Location  .       ......................................  5
Access  ........   .......................               5
Climate  ........    ............................        6
Existing Works  ......     .........................     6
Soils  . ..........................................      6
Present Cultivation  .....     ....................      6
Population  .......     ...........................      7
Land Tenure  .......    ..........................       7
Agricultural Research  .        ..........................    7
SODELAC  ........    ...........................         7
IV.   THE PROJECT  ..........................................    7
A.   Summary Description .....................  .......   7
B.   Detailed Features ...............................   8
Irrigation and Drainage  .......................       8
Agricultural Development  ......................       9
Assistance for SODELAC Reorganization  ...  ......  10
C.   Water Demand, Supply, Quality  ...................      il
D.   Status of Engineering and Consultants  ....      .......  12
E.   Irrigation Works Construction  ........ ...........  12
F.   Project Impact on Ecology  .......... .............  13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
J. Ropiteau, R. Grimshaw, A. Kaunan, and M. Fireman (Bank) and P. Maistre
(Consultant).



Table of.Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINGNCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....          ........   13
A. Project Costs .13
B.   Proposed Financing  ......15........................   t5
C.   Procurement  .....................................   17
D.   Disbursements  ...................................   17
E.   Accounts and Audit  ..............................   18
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   .......................    18
A.   Organization  ...................................    18
B.   Staffing  .......................................    20
C.   Farmers Settlement  .............................    21
D.   Training  .......................................    23
E.   Credit  .........................................    23
VII.   YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES,
FARMERS BENEFITS AND RECOVERY OF COSTS ....          ...........    24
A.   Yields and Production  ...........................    24
B.   World Markets and Prices for Project Produced
Commodities  ..................................    24
C.   Local Marketing and Prices  .....................    25
D.   Farmers Benefits and Cost Recovery  ....         .........    27
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ....           .............   29
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .....................................    31
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Agricultural Statistics
Table 1 - Cereals and Seed Cotton Production
Table 2 - Country Exports
Annex 2   Project Area Soils
Annex 3   Agricultural Development.
Table 1 - Crop Producticn
Table 2 - Settlement Farmer Gross Income
Table 3 - Settlement Farmer Budget and Cash Flow
Table 4 - Labor Requirements - Man-Days



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 4   Societe de Developpement du Lac
Table 1 - Income Statements
Annex 5   Irrigation Works
Table 1 - Irrigation Works Characteristics
Table 2 - Construction Schedule
Annex 6   Water Supply and Quality, Irrigation Requirements and Drainage
Table 1 - Lake Water Levels at Bol
Table 2 - Water Requirements
Annex 7   Project Cost
Table 1 -  Project Cost and Financing
Table 2  -  Construction Works
Table 3  -  Staff
Table 4  -  Staff (continued)
Table 5  -  Housing
Table 6  -  Vehicles
Table 7  -  Equipment
Table 8  -  Direct Expenses
Table 9  -  Direct Expenses (continued)
Table 10 -  Administrative and Indirect Expenses
Table 11 -  Income Statement and Cash Flow
Table 12 -  Consulting Services and Other
Table 13 -  IDA Disbursement Schedule
Annex 8   Organization
Organization Chart No. 9744
Schedule 1  -  Terms of Reference for the Engineering Consulting
Firm Providing Seconded Staff
Table 1     -  Expatriate Staff Salaries
Schedule 2  -  Terms of Reference of the Research Staff
Annex 9   Economic Prices
Table 1 - Marketing and Processing Costs
Table 2 - Forecasted Farm Gate Economic Prices
Annex 10  Government Cash Flow
Table 1 - Capital Recovery Index
Table 2 - Capital Recovery Index Including all Government
Benefits
Table 3  -  Government Cash Flow
Annex 11  Economic Calculations
Table 1 - Economic Calculations
Table 2 - Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS






CHAD
LARE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        The Government of Chad has asked IDA  to help finance 1,200 ha of
irrigated agricultural development using the waters of Lake Chad. The project
is based on a feasibility study financed by Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC) who employed SCET, of France for preparing the Study, and on the find-
ings of an appraisal mission which visited Chad in November 1974.
ii.       Given Chad's very limited agricultural resource base, Government's
strategy options for developing the rural sector are very restricted. There
is a real limit to the level of increases in farming incomes that rainfed
agricultural development projects can generate. Currently, income levels in
rainfed areas of Chad are about US$35-50 per capita. With present technology,
these can be increased by maybe 50 percent, but the beneficiaries from such
projects will continue to remain very poor, and the food base of the couatry
will continue to be dependent upon a rainfall that even in normal years is
very variable, and that from time to time falls to a degree that national
catastrophe results. While rainfed projects will continue to be allotted the
highest priority, Government believes that in time it will be necessary to
develop the irrigation potential of Lake Chad and the rivers of the Lake Chad
basin, because irrigation alone can solve the critical problems faced by the
economy as a whole and the rural sector in particular. Some of the benefits
of developing the irrigated sector would be: greater diversity of crop pro-,
duction, better utilization of livestock resources, evolution of a high tech-
nology agriculture, insurance against the disruptive effects of drought. The
cost of developing the irrigated sector, however, is high, and Chad cannot
expend large sums of money for irrigation works over large areas and in a
short period of time, to the benefit of relatively few farm families.
iii.      Government believes that there is a case for making a start in irri-
gation, even if this is at the expense of some development in the rainfed
sector; this is not because irrigation projects, such as the proposed project,
can be duplicated so easily as to have a rapid, major and favorable impact
on the economy, but because only in this way can Chad begin to obtain the
expertise in irrigation technology, the trained Chadian personnel, and
evolution of the institutions needed to exploit its irrigation potential
effectively and in the long run to improve the economic base of the country.
The project appraised in this report would be a pilot operation economically
viable in its own right and designed to achieve the foregoing objectives.



- ii -
iv.       The project would comprise development of two polders I/ already
reclaimed from the lake: Guini, 370 ha net are cultivable, and Berim, 800 ha
located within 5 km of the center of Bol, headquarters for the Prefecture du
Lac. The project would comprise rehabilitating and completing the irrigation
and drainage network for polder; constructing the irrigation and drainage
network for Berim polder; establishing a commercial agricultural development
section which would ease the way for farmer settlement, and be responsible
for the first year of operations on all newly developed land; providing a
package of services to the farmers wno would take up cultivation of the polders;
and expanding the program of adaptive agricultural research at the Matafo
Research Station. Project development would occur over a four-year period.
v.        The irrigation works would include:  for Guini polder, rehabilita-
tion of 1.6 km of primary irrigation canals, a broken 0.9 km siphon, con-
struction of a small pumping station at the water intake, 3.3 km of primary
canals, a complete secondary network, 2 km of main drainage collectors and
some 22 km of service roads; for Berimn polder, construction of two water
intakes, 10.8 km of primary canals, 30 km of secondary pipes, 12.5 km of main
drainage collectors leading to a drainage pumping station and some 50 km of
service roads. Construction of tlhe irrigation works could start anytime.
Detailed engineering studies at a scale 115,000 have been completed and bid
clocuments prepared. The timetable for construction of the irrigation works
assumes the beginning of construction by early 1976 when lake waters are high
enough to allow transport of supplies and equipment to Bol, which is only
possible between December and March.
vi.       The project would be implemented by Societe de Developpement du
Lac (SODELAC), a small corporation owned by Government and responsible for
the overall development of the Lake Chad region, through a Project Unit
established for that purpose. SODELAC is engaged in agricultural develop-
ment and a number of other activities, which have resulted in a dispersion
of SODELAC's management effort and increased its losses. SODELAC needs to be
reorganized and particularly, to limit its activities to those of providing
agricultural extension services which it is committed to provide on behalf
of Government to farmers, and those marketing activities which are authorized
by its general charter and which are profitable. A consultant would be
appointed to assist SODELAC in its reorganization. Pending such reorganiza-
tion, the Project Unit would remain financially independent of SODELAC's
other activities.
viii.     The Project Unit Manager and key project staff would be recruited
internationally. As it is essential that internationally recruited staff
form a compatible team under the harsh living conditions prevailing in the
pclder area, and can be sufficiently technically backstopped, internationally
1/   Polders are land reclaimed frcm the sea or any other body of water by
constructing dikes and drying out the land so empoldered. Thereafter,
the water runoff is control7ed by sluicing or pumping.



- iii -
recruited staff would be provided by a recognized international company
with expertise to carry out irrigation projects including construction
of works. Government chose SCET-INTERNATIONAL of France to provide such
staff. SCET is acceptable to the Association.
viii.     Project costs are estimated at US$13 million, net of duties and
taxes. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$10.4 million or
80 percent of total costs. Principal components are: irrigation works
construction and supervision, US$5.5 million; farm development, US$0.9 mil-
lion; agricultural research, US$0.9 million; Project Unit overhead, US$1.2 mil-
lion; other, US$0.1 million; and contingencies, US$4.4 million. The proposed
IDA credit of US$5 million would finance 38 percent of total project costs
and would cover some 48 percent of the foreign cost. The remainder of project
costs would be met by the African Development Fund (AFDF), US$5 million or
38 percent of total project costs; USAID, US$1 million, 8 percent: and Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), US$2 million, 16 percent. IDA financing would
be passed on by Government to SODELAC as a loan to be repaid over 50 years
starting in 1979 and bearing an interest rate of 0.25%.
ix.       Construction of the water intakes and the pumping stations would be
financed by the African Development Fund (AFDF) in parallel to the IDA
credit. AFDF would also finance the supply of secondary irrigation pipes,
the equipment to construct the irrigation works, and the construction of staff
houses and service centers. It is expected that construction of the water
intakes and pumping stations would be let under local competitive bidding,
and supply of pipes, to international competitive bidding among AFDF member
countries. AFDF's share of the financing of the irrigation works, including
the supply of irrigation pipes, would amount to US$3.0 million (60% of total
civil works) prior to contingencies. The rest of the irrigation works
(US$2.0 million) would be small and would include different items, such as
construction of primary canals, laying secondary pipes and land levelling.
It would be financed by IDA and FAC on a pari-passu basis (71-29%). Because
of their smallness and their nature, it is proposed that the latter irrigation
works be built by force account. Equipment and supplies would be procured
by international competitive bidding.
x.        For those project items financed by IDA and FAC, the following
would apply: orders or contracts for equipment, cement, vehicles or chem-
icals with a value of more than US$25,000 would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such procure-
ment is estimated to have a value of CFAF 400 millionl/ or US$1.8 million.
Some CFAF 200 million 1/ or US$1.1 million would be for operating expenses
unsuitable for competitive bidding. The expatriates posted to the project
would be provided under contract by a firm recruited internationally accord-
ing to IDA guidelines; their salaries would amount to CFAF 400 million or
US$1.7 million. The remaining CFAF 500 million or US$2.4 million would be
for contingencies.
1/   Prior to Physical and Price contingencies.



- iv -
xi.       The costs of the project are high--with civil works, without contin-
gencies, costing US$4.800 per ha in 1975 terms. This very high cost reflects
conditions specific to Chad:  high external and internal transportation costs,
lack of a technically developed Chadian domestic contracting industry, and
a generally low level of experience in irrigation works. The situation will
not change in the short run, but it should improve as experience is built up
through the implementation of irrigation projects. Other major items in
project costs are high but generally reflect the disecononiies of a small
scale operation.
xii.      The project feasibility study verified the population within a
60 km radius of the project area at about 62,000 people, of which there would
be 7,000 farm families.  About 700 farm families already live in the project
area. Tle development of the two rroject polders would require a total of
1,150 farm families, assuming they are given oII the average a 1 ha plot to
cultivate. Some 450 farm families would therefore settle from outside the
project area. As this accounts for only 7% of the farming population within
a 60 km radius, it should not be difficult to recruit settlement farmers.
xiii.     Selection of farmers and their land tenure arrangements with SODELAC
would be made jointly by the Project and the Comite Prefectoral du Developpe-
ment Rural, the latter comprising representatives of the prefecture, various
-ministries and politicians. Land allocation would be limited to what a faamily
can handle effectively bv itself, without mechanical or temporary help. It
is estimated that the average family of 2.8 adults could not handle more than
1 ha of irrigated land.  An average family could be allocated less than 1 ha
but not more than 1 ha.  A decree would be issued to confirm that SODELAC is
authorized under law to organize the settlement of farmers in newly developed
polder lands.
xiv.      The excellent soil fertility of the polders would result in satis-
factory yield levels of 2,500 kg/ha of seed cotton and wheat respectively.
The price of both project produced commodities is expected to remain attrac-
tive.  The price of the Mexican SM 1-1/16", which is the standard for Bank's
projections of cotton prices, reached US cents 62/lb CIF Europe in 1973 and
decreased in 1974 to US cents 54/-b. The Bank's Economic Commodities and
E:xports Projections Division (ECEPD) forecasts that competitive pressures
from man-made fibers will keep it at about the latter level in 1974 terms
for the foreseeable future. It is expected that the longer staple grown
under the project (1-3/32") should continue to fetch a US cents 1.5/lb length
premium over the standard. lheat prices doubled in 1973 to US$147/ton and
reached 115209/ton in 1974.  ECEPD expects wheat to trade between US$190/ton
and US$175/ton in 1975 and to decrease to US$125/ton in constant 1974 terms
by 1980-1981.
xv.       SODELAC is responsible for organizing wheat purchases from farmers.
To encourage the sale of wheat through SODELAC Government increased the
official producer price for wheat from CFAF 20/kg to CFAF 32/kg in 1974, a
price competitive to local traders. At the same time SODELAC was guaranteed



v
a CFAF 18/kg margin to market and transport wheat to the flour mill.  The
only flour mill in Chad, 12 000 ton capacity, belongs to Grands Moulins du
Tchad (GMT) which has the monopoly for flour processing and importing in the
country. The miil has been fairly inactive lately as there was practically
no wheat produced in the country. Even at full project development, locally
produced wheat may not exceed 3,000 tons per year.  Processing costs will-
remain high until the mill reaches full operating capacity. SODELAC would
enter into a long-term contract with G!tfT by which GMT would purchase SODELAC
wheat at its effective economic value less a factor to take into account GMT
high milling costs. Government was requested during negotiations to keep the
discount as low as possible, preferably below the 20% implied in the farmer
producer prices of CFAF 50/kg.
xvi.      At present, cotton growers in the south are paid CFAF 45/kg for
first quality seed cotton. This price provides them with adequate incentive.
Project farmers would be paid CFAF 53/kg, to reflect the fact that collection
costs would be lower (CFAF 5/kg), and that the quality of the project cotton
would be better (CFAF 3/kg) than in the south. Cotontchad, the government-
owned corporation with the monopoly for seed cotton purchasing and lint
processing in the country, would enter into a long-term agreement with SODELAC
by which Cotontchad would purchase project produced cotton at a price which
would reflect the better quality of cotton grown at Bol and the lower market-
ing costs which would be incurred.
xvii.     Project area farmers have at present an estimated per capita GNP
of US$35, about half the national average. No change in their income would
take place without the project. With the project their per capita GNP would
increase to about US$300 annually, US$1,256 per family.  The family would be
able to meet the cost of services provided to it by SODELAC, the costs
incurred in collecting and delivering the family produce, and make a sizeable
payment to partly amortize Government investment in the project.  A family
farming one ha of irrigated land would be in receipt of a gross income of
CFAF 282,500 (US$1,256) annually.  After meeting direct production costs and
food requirements, the family farming one ha of irrigated land would be in
receipt of CFAF 245,500, annually. Clearly the family would be able to meet
the cost of services provided by SODELAC, CFAF 74,000/ha. Following payment
of these charges, the family would remain in receipt of CFAF 171,500. Tlere
is neither a governmental policy for the recovery of irrigation project
investnent costs from participants nor an understanding on the level of
incentives that families require to induce them to remain and efficiently
farm irrigated holdings.  It would appear that a net family income of CFAF
115,500 (US$513), which would imply a return of CFAF 297 per man-day worked
by the family, would be an adequate incentive.  This would permit the farm
family to make a payment of CFAF 56,000/ha annually to partly amortize
project investment costs. Farmers would initially and temporarily be charged
a consolidated fee of CFAF 130,000/ha which would include charges for
operating expenses and capital amortization. This fee is about 7 times the
fee collected on the only ongoing large scale irrigation scheme, at Bangor,



- vi -
in southern Chad.  The fee would be reviewed from time to time.  The fee
would be collected by SODELAC bi-annually after the sale of each crop.
xviii.    Farmers' payments would enable SODELAC to cover all its operating
charges and to repay government investment in the project over a 50-year
period at a nominal interest rate of 0.25%. Expressed differently, assuming
the country's cost of capital to be 10%, Government recovery through the
consolidated fee alone, from its initial investment and recurrent expenditures
in the project would be 40% over a 50-vear period. Government recovery would
increase to 68%, if project induced cotton taxes and profits generated by
Cotontchad are added to the consolidated fee. All three measures indicate a
certain degree of government subs:Ldy, which is justified, given that the
project is economically viable and that farmers' response must be tested prior
to increasing the consolidated fee.
xix.      The project's direct bernefits would be the 3,000 tons of wheat and
the 3,000 tons of seed cotton procuction that it would generate annually and
which would result in higher incomes for a minimum of 1,200 farm families, if
each family is allotted one ha of polder cultivation. A minimum of 5,000
people would benefit directly from the project. It would increase to 14,000
people, if families are allotted 0.5 ha each, and if the average family size
increases from 4 to 6 persons through higher birth rates and lower infant
mortality rates, and if some members of the extended family are, as expected,
attracted to the project area.  The economic rate of return from investment
in the project is estimated at 17%. Important assumptions used in the calcu-
lations are:
(a) economic farm gate prices in 1973 constant CFAF terms as
projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Division;
(b) shadow CFAF rate of 270 per US$ instead of the current exchange
rate of CFAF 225 per USS to take account of existing import
and export taxes and the additional factors that weaken Chad's
balance of payments and result in durable low levels of reserves;
(c) inclusion as an economic cost of the foregone incomes of
traditional irrigation and
(d)  exclusion of the costs of the agricultural research com-
ponent.
A sensitivity analysis in,licates that the project's rate of return
is very sensitive to variations in benefits or costs. Without shadow pricing
of the foreign exchange the rate o` return would be 16%. Costing the addi-
tional farmer labor required for po:Lder cultivation at the daily rate of CFAF
170/day, which is the minimum wage in the agricultural sector, would bring the
rate of return to 13%, which is still acceptable.



- vii -
xx.       The project would have a number of secondary benefits which have
not been included in the economic rate of return calculations: it would
prevent the progressive salinization, a normal process exacerbated by trad-
itional irrigation, and eventual abandonment of Guini and Berim polders; it
would create a pole of develonment in the so far underprivileged northern
part of Chad; it would help stabilize the farm community by reducing the
ineome disparity between northern and southern regions; it would strengthen
the balance of payments by providing a permanent source of foreign exchange;
it would provide a reliable source of agricultural production, which would
reduce the devastating impact of the drought. and it would provide the basis
for the development of a modern tecmnology in irrigated agriculture.  Further-
more, IDA's exposure in the project is not large (38% of total financing
required), but is essential for the mobilization of aid from the three other
donors (AFDF, FAC, and USAID). Wlithout IDA particiDation, these agencies
would reconsider their participation in the project. As the proposed project
is one of the very few, if not the only project of any magnitude in the
agricultural sector ready for financing and execution, funds released by
withdrawal of these other donors could not imniediately be reallocated to
other projects.
xxi.      On the basis of the assurances set out in chapter IX the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5 million.






CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Chad has asked IDA to help finance the initial
phase of a program of irrigated agricultural development using the waters
of Lake Chad. This first phase would consist of developing some 1,200 ha
of polders for irrigated farming. About 50,000 ha could be empoldered in
the northeastern part of Lake Chad.
1.02      The project would comprise development of two polders already
reclaimed from the lake, and the provision of technical, marketing and
credit services, and inputs to about 1,200 farm families who would be allotted
plots in the polders. The project appraised in this report is smaller than
that for which Government requested financing, which included development
of a third polder of some 1,630 ha which is still under water. The decision
to restrict the project to 1,200 ha was made because detailed engineering
design work had been done only for 1,200 ha. A larger project at this time
would increase the risk of heavy cost overruns, a risk inherent in the con-
struction of major civil works in a region of difficult access. Reclamation
of the third polder and detailed engineering design of the works to be built
in that polder are expected to be financed by another foreign aid donor
(Government has contacted the Kuwait Fund) but would come under the responsi'-
bility of a single project management.
1.03      Previous IDA lending in the agricultural sector has been:  a
US$2.2 million credit for livestock (309-CD, 1972) that until very recently
was handicapped by problems of inadequate counterpart funds and administra-
tive bottlenecks which have now been resolved; a US$2.0 million credit for
drought relief measures (445-CD, 1973) which is progressing satisfactorily;
and a US$7.5 million credit for a rice irrigation project in the Sategui-
Deressia Plain (489-CD, 1974) which has been plagued by substantial cost
overruns; construction of a reformulated project is expected to start later
this year.
1.04      This report is based on a feasibility study financed by Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), who employed SCET of France for preparing
the study, and on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. Ropiteau, Grimshaw, Kaunan, Fireman (IDA) and Maistre (consultant),
which visited Chad in November 1974.



-2-
II. BACKGROUNI)
A. General
2.01       Chad is very large, 1,284,000 km2 anj sparsely populated, 3.7 mil-
lion.  Population pressure decreases from 8/km  in the south to zero in the
desertic north. About half the pcpulation are seminomadic herders living in
the dry grasslands, north of latitude 12°, which corresponds roughly to isohyet
750 mm; the0other half are farmers cultivating cereals and cotton south of
latitude 12 along the Logone and Chari rivers where rainfall is more favor-
able and averages between 750 mm and 1,200 mm per year.  Population is esti-
mated to be growing at about 1.7% annually.
2.02      GDP per capita is about US$75 and decreased in real terms by about
6% in each of 1971, 1972 and 1973 as a result of the drought that plagued
the Sahel until the 1974 wet season. Chad's economy is dominated by the
rural sector, which has a very limited potential, except where irrigation
can be employed. Under rainfed conditions, cotton and livestoclc have the
greatest potential as export commodities although any development is hampered
by an underdeveloped social infrastructure and by the fact that Chad is some
1,700 km from the nearest ocean port.  Currentlv, Government faces a very
difficult budgetary situation stemming partly from the loss of tax revenues
c-aused by the slowdown in the economy, and partly from military expenditures
incurred in fighting a rebellion in the desertic northern sector of the
country. In 1974 deficit financing was expected to amount to CFAF 5 billion
(US$20 million) or the equivalent of 40% of total Government expenditures.
B. The Rural Sector
2.03       The rural sector direct1v supports some 90% of the population.  It
contributes about 55% to GDP as foi lows:  food crops (25%), livestock (16%)
and cotton (14%). The country, while normally self-sufficient in food, was
obliged to import cereals in 1972 and 1973 to avert famine (Annex 1, Table 1).
The international community provided Chad with 13,500 tons of relief food,
mainly cereals, in 1972/73 and about 35,000 tons in 1973/74. Normal rainfall
resumed in 1974 and was sufficient to reattain self-sufficiency in cereals.
2.04      Chad is the leading cotton producing and exporting country in West
Africa (exporting CFAF 5.4 billion or US$24 million worth of lint cotton
per year). Cotton alone is the subject of any large scale productivity
improvement activity. This started in 1965 under joint financing by Fonds
Europeen de Developpement (FED) and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of
France. The cotton improvement program consists of distributing fertilizers
and other inputs at subsidized prices by Office National pour le Developpement
Rural (ONDR). Although it is generally assumed that yields of farmers parti-
cipating in the program, i.e., about 20% of all cotton farmers in the south,



-3-
are substantially higher than those of farmers not using improved methods,
this has never been substantiated by a full-fledged analysis of farmers'
results. Government is now organizing a detailed evaluation of program
results to determine the economic viability of the program. This evaluation
is especially important as FED financing of the program is expected to come to
its end shortly, and Government will have to decide whether or not and in what
degree to continue with the program. Livestock production suffered badly
from the loss of animals due to drought, and currently, livestock production
is estimated to be 40% below 1969 levels. The importance of agriculture in
the economy is shown by the fact that, in spite of the drought, rural sector
exports accounted for more than 80% of total exports in 1973, and cotton alone
for 63% of total exports (Annex 1, Table 2).
2.05      Given Chad's very limited agricultural resource base, Government's
strategy options for developing the rural sector are very restricted. As
far as rainfed farming is concerned, there is a very real limit to the level
of increases that development projects, such as the cotton program discussed
in para 2.04 can generate. Currently, income levels in rainfed areas of Chad
are about US$35-50 per capita. With present technology, these can be increased
by maybe 50%, but the beneficiaries from such projects will continue to remain
very poor, and the food base of the country continue to be dependent upon a
rainfall that even in normal years is very variable and that from time to time,
for example in the recent Sahelian drought years, fails to a degree where
national catastrophe results. Despite the limited potential of the rainfed
agriculture, there obviously is a need for and merit in programs to improve
productivity and farm incomes as much as is economically justified, and
wherever possible to contain in programs with these objectives additional
components that are aimed at correcting some of the deficiencies in the
quality of life in rural areas. Such components typically would be the im-
provement of village water supplies, functional literacy programs, and advice
and assistance in hygiene and nutrition. The Bank currently is assisting
Government to prepare a rural development project which would encompass
activities designed to improve both productivity and the social infrastruc-
ture. The costs per family assisted with such projects are not high and they
represent the only way in which limited funds can be applied to help any
significant proportion of the population. It is Government's intention to
continue to promote these types of action.
2.06      While rainfed projects will continue to be allotted the highest
priority, Government believes that in time it will be necessary to develop
the irrigation potential of Lake Chad and the rivers of the Lake Chad basin.
The rationale for this is that given Chad's arid climate and the susceptib-
ility of most of the country to drought of one degree of intensity or another,
irrigation alone can solve the critical problems faced by the economy as a
whole and the rural sector in particular. Some of the benefits that would
accrue from the development of an irrigated sector are listed below. The
list is not exclusive, but it is sufficient to indicate why Government believes
it justified to make a start in developing such a sector albeit on a small
scale. Benefits of developing irrigation in Chad would include, inter alia:



-4-
(a) greater diversity of crop production: Chad is now dependent
on the importation of farm-originating produce that it could
produce domestically with irrigation. Important are such
basics as wheat, sugar, and a wide range of vegetables and
fruit. Chad is so located that imports of these and similar
commodities are expensive, and supply, subject to disruptions
beyond the country's coatrol;
(b) better utilization of the country's livestock resources: Chad's
Sahelian pastures are good breeding areas, but finishing stock
for sale now requires long distance migration in the dry season,
often south into Cameroon and Nigeria. An irrigated sector
would generate substantial amounts of crop by-products and
residues in the dry season that could help to stabilize the
livestock sub-sector andl improve its contribution to the
economy.  Irrigation alone could permit the ultimate develop-
ment of a dairy industry;
(c)  evolution of a high technology agriculture:  The rainfed system
has clear limitations in areas such as yield potential, and the
efficiency of fertilizer and input use. Water, in this case
rainfall, is the limiting factor. Irrigation would allow the
utilization of modern technology to a much greater degree than
now possible and permit Chadian personnel to learn, employ
and further develop modern agricultural techniques. Such an
irrigated agriculture would also assure its participants better
and more secure income prospects than rainfed farming;
(d) insurance against the disruptive effects of drought: The
impact of drought is not only to lessen the supply of food
staples such as grains; among other effects, livestock are
irretrievably lost through death, and agriculturally based
industries are disrupted because of the lack of raw materials.
These effects may be felt for many years--until livestock herds
are replenished and farmers have replenished their own food
resources through de-emphasizing cash crops. Cereal reserves
can be stored as an insurance against drought-induced famine,
but irrigation alone can cushion the other and more insiduous
consequences of drought.
In short, development of an irrigated sector in Chad would bring
a wide range of benefits ranging from providing the means to improve nutri-
tion--fruit, vegetables and dairy products--through creating the circumstances
irn which Chadian scientists and technicians would find rewarding opportu-
nities in agriculture, to cushionirLg the economy as a whole against the
occurrence of drought, which inevitably will occur from time to time. Irri-
gation, however, is not a panacea since, while Chad possesses substantial
physical potential for irrigation, probably in excess of 200,000 ha, the
costs of developing this potential appear high. This is illustrated by the
costs of the project appraised in this report, see para 5.06. Clearly, a



- 5 -
country as poor as Chad cannot expend sums as high as US$5,000/ha for civil
works over large areas and in a short period of time. First, finance is
very limited and second, it would be inequitàble to expend large sums of
money to the benefit of relatively few farm families. Nonetheless, the
pressure to begin to develop the country's irrigation potential is increasing
and received a significant stimulus in the recent past from the catastrophic
Sahelian drought which demonstrated the fragility of the country's wholly
rainfed rural economy.
2.07      Government believes that there is a case for makîng a start in
irrigation, even if this is at the expense of some development in the rain-
fed sector; this i not because irrigation projects, such as the Chad Polders
Project, can be replicated so easily as to have a rapîd, major and favorable
impact on the economy, but because only in this way can Chad begin to obtain
the expertise in irrigation technology, the trained Chadian personnel, and
the evolution of the institutions needed to exploit its irrigation potential
effectively and in the long run to improve the economic base of the country.
The project appraised in this report would be a pilot operation, economically
viable in its own right, and designed to achieve the foregoing objectives.
2.08      A number of Ministries deal with the rural sector.  Ministere de
l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Eaux et Forets (MA) is generally responsible
for rainfed agriculture and livestock, and employs as its executive arm
Office National pour le Developpement Rural (ONDR), which provides extension
services and i responsible for the farm input delivery system. Ministere
de l'Amenagement du Territoire et de L'Environnement (MATE) has respon-
sibility for developing some irrigation projects, which are relatively small,
and is also responsible for storing and marketing grain through its Fonds
d'Action du Developpement Rural (FDAR). Societe de Developpement du Lac
(SODELAC) is an agency of MATE and responsible for the general development
of the Lake Chad region. In general, all governmental services, including
the above, are hampered by budget constraints and a lack of experienced
management.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      Location.  The two project polders:  Guini, 370 ha 1/ and Berim,
800 ha, are located within five kilometers of the center of Bol (see map).
The third polder, Mamdi, of 1,630 ha, is located close by and could be
managed conveniently by the project management that would be established for
the Guini and Berim polders (para 1.02).
3.02      Access.  Bol is 305 km by road from N'Djamena.  The road runs
around the southeastern tip of the lake and îs passable only by four-wheel
drive vehicles. The shortest route from Bol to N'Djamena is by barge down
the Chari river and across the lake. This is possible, however, only a few
1/   Net area cultivable.



- 6 -
months each year at the time the Chari floods and when the lake's water level
is sufficiently high to permit barges to clear the sand barrier which sepa-
rates Bol from the rest of the lake. This barrier is at 279.5 m a.s.l.
Accesa across the lake is usually possible from November to March, although
the Chari itself is navigable for a longer period from October to May.
3.03      Climate.  The climate is arid and characterized by high daytime
temperatures, which reach an average of 38.50C in April and sharp intra-day
variations especially during the long dry season of October through June.
Average annual rainfall in the project area is about 285 mm, with about 70%
falling in the months of July and August; this is inadequate to sustain
arable crop production except for the production of a very low yielding crop
of millet. Evapotranspiration is high, about 2,150 mm per year.
3.04      Existing Works.  Guini and Berim polders were sealed off from the
lake in 1951 and in 1954 respectively by the creation of dikes which are
still in good condition. Guini polder was partly developed between 1969 and
1972. Existing works include the 0.75 m3/s water intake, 1.6 km of primary
:irrigation canals (28% of the total), a 0.9 km siphon, a secondary distribu-
tion system for 70 ha, 4 km of the main drainage collectors (67% of the total),
the 1.2 m3/s drainage pumping station and 4 km of service roads in the polder.
The works were not completed for lack of financing and some, in particular
the primary and secondary canals and the siphon were broken when the polder
soils dried out, cracked and settled during the extreme drought years of 1972
and 1973. No irrigation works were built on Berim polder.
3.05      Soils.  The soils of Guini and Berim polders have been the subject
of many investigations, in particular by Office de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM). The soils are alluvial in origin, very
fertile and high in nutrient content (Annex 2). Salinity surveys of Guini
and Berin in 1966 showed that only a small portion of each had any damaging
concentration of salt in the surface half meter, and that the severity of
the salinity problem had increased only very slowly since the mid-1960s,
thus indicating almost certainly that some salt is being eliminated, probably
by seepage. The irrigation system adopted by the project of gravity irriga-
tion from the lake and of drainage of the irrigation water would eliminate
any risk of salt depositing and would reduce present salt concentration
through leaching.
3.06      Present Cultivation.  Traditional shadoof 1/ irrigation on Guini and
Berim polders was practiced until the underground water table in the polders
fell below 0.8 m from the surface, at which point farmers moved to other
polders. A total of 132 ha were cultivated on both polders in 1972, half
at Matafo Research Station and hal.f by individual farmers. Since 1972 the
area under cultivation has been reduced. Crops produced were essentially
cotton and wheat. Present farmers cultivate an average 1.3 ha of rainfed
!/  The shadoof or counterpoise consists Jf a rope and basket on one end of
a beam with a heavy counterweight on the other end to offset the weight
of the water as ut is withdrawn from the well.



- 7 -
millet on the dunes and 0.2 ha each in the polders through traditional
shadoof irrigation techniques.  They own an average of 3.5 animal units.
3.07      Population.  The present population of Bol and neighboring villages
was verified by the project feasibility study at about 7,300 people, 40% of
whom are involved in agriculture. As a farm family averages 4 people, there
are about 700 farm families within a 5 km radius of Bol (Annex 3).
3.08      Land Tenure.  The legal owner of all three polders is the Republic
of Chad under provisions of a decree of August 1, 1967. Farmers cultivating
in the polders have no formal rights of usufruct and occupancy but would be
given priority once developed polder land is allocated (para 6.08).
3.09      Agricultural Research.  Since 1970 SODELAC has carried out a series
of experiments and trials to determine the best cultural techniques and the
potential yields of various varieties of wheat and cotton at the Matafo Agri-
cultural Research Station. The station is located in the Guini polder. The
trials have demonstrated that the polders have a very high productive poten-
tial.
3.10      SODELAC.  Societe de Developpement du Lac (SODELAC) is the small
corporation, yearly budget about US$100,000 equivalent, responsible for the
development of the Lake Chad region. Ninety-five percent of the shares belong
to Government and the remaining 5% to government agencies. It was created with
responsibility for the overall development of the Lake Chad region, including
the provision of extension, credit and marketing services to farmers (Annex 4).
SODELAC headquarters are in N'Djamena, and it has branches at Bol and N'gouri.
SODELAC enjoys a high degree of autonomy, but due to the low economic activity
of the Lake Chad region and inadequate financing by Government, SODELAC has
achieved very little and is in a difficult financial position. Government
intends to resolve SODELAC's financial situation before proceeding with the
proposed project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a four-year investment period
1976-79 by a Project Unit established for this purpose within SODELAC, see
Chapter VI. The project would comprise:
(a) rehabilitating and completing the irrigation and drainage
networks of Guini polder (370 ha net area);
(b) constructing the irrigation and drainage networks for
Berim polder (800 ha net area);



(c) establishing a Commercial Agricultural Development Section
under the project which would ease the way for farmer
settlement, and be responsible for the first year of opera-
tions on all newly developed land, and for the basic
cultivations during the following year;
(d) providing a package of services to the farmers who would
take up cultivation of the polders after the initial first
year of operations by the Commercial Agricultural Develop-
ment Section, such services to include resettlement
assistance, training extension, credit and marketing;
(e)  constructing necessary service centers and houses for
project staff;
(f)  expanding adaptive agricultural research at the Matafo
Research Station; and
(g) providing consultant assistance to reorganize Societe
de Developpement du Lac (SODELAC).
B. Detailed Features
Irrigation and Drainage
4.02      Rehabilitation and Completion of Works on Guini Polder.  The works
rehabilitated under the project would include the 1.6 km of broken primary
irrigation canals and the broken 0.9 km siphon (para 3.04). The secondary
distribution system serving the Matafo Research Station (70 ha) would be
abandoned, as it is no longer usable. To complete the Guini polder's irriga-
tion system, the following structures would be built and equipped: a small
pumping station at the intake, 3.3 km of primary canals, a complete secondary
network (15.2 km of pipes), 2 km of main drainage collector, 15.2 km of
service roads, and a 6.5 km access road to Bol (Annex 5).
4.03      Development of Berim Polder.  Works to be executed include:  two
water intakes each to irrigate halE the polder (400 ha) with a capacity of
1 m3/s. To provide gravity irrigation over most of the polder area, the
water level at each intake would be 1.1 m above the polder bottom. The
intakes would be equipped with a downstream control gate to maintain a
constant head pressure in the primaries for uninterrupted irrigation. The
primary canals (10.8 km), along one side of the polder with a slight eleva-
tion above the polder bottom, would be open, rectangular in shape and lined
wLth reinforced concrete. The secondary pipes (30 km) plugged onto the
pirimaries via junction wells, would be plastic pipes (polyvinyl chloride)
wliich would be able to withstand siiifts in the soil level caused by alternate
wetting and drying. The drainage system for Berim would include 12.5 km of
main drainage collectors, some 2 m deep, leading to a drainage pumping station



- 9 -
of 1 m3/capacity at the mid-section of the polder. Service roads totalling
about 50 km and 3-6 m wide would be built in the polder along drainage col-
lectors and the secondary distribution system; the polder would be connected
to Bol by a 1.5 km access road, 6 m wide and on a 0.3 m embankment.
4.04      Irrigation System Design and Capacity.  Berim irrigation network
would be designed for 2.5 1/s/ha assuming a daily irrigation of 12 hours
(Annex 6). This would be adequate to meet peak crop requirements. The
project is divided into three irrigation units, each covering about 400 ha
(Guini comprises one and Berim two). Each unit would have its own water
intake and an independent irrigation network. Based on field side capa-
cities of 30 l/s or about 100 m3/hour, which correspond to the maximum dis-
charge a farmer can handle efficiently, the continuous discharge of 2.5
1/s/ha could irrigate 12 ha. The irrigation units are divided into subunits
of 12 ha each, comprising 12 individual plots belonging to 12 farmers. The
rotation of water for irrigation application would be organized between the
12 farmers of the subunit. There would be two field outlets of 30 l/s
capacity for each subunit.
4.05      Drainage System Design and Capacity.  Drainage is required to
prevent salt from accumulating on the soil surface through evaporation and
evapotranspiration. For Berim polder the drainage network has a design
capacity of 1.25 1/s/ha adequate to handle water seeping through the dunes
at high lake levels (one-in-100 year frequency) and to dispose of system
water losses (estimated at 40% overall). There would be a central collector
main in the middle of the polder leading to the pumping station. Space for
lateral collector drains would be set aside in case they should prove neces-
sary. In Guini polder the partial drainage system in existence was designed
for 3.2 l/s/ha and consequently is overdesigned. The power supply for the
pumps would be provided by diesel sets.
Agricultural Development
4.06      Establishment of a Commercial Agricultural Development Section.
The project polders would be settled by individual farmers, each cultivating
1 ha (paras 6.07-6.08). This policy was adopted as the best means of provid-
ing maximum benefits to the farm community at lowest cost. To ease the way
for settlement, it is proposed to form a Commercial Agricultural Development
Section, which would be responsible for the first year of operations on all
newly developed land and for the basic cultivation during the following year,
the first year of settlement. In the latter year the Commercial Section
would clear, disc and plant a cotton and a wheat crop, thus giving the farmer
a better chance to settle down and to learn the new techniques that will be
demanded of him. The Commercial Section would be equipped to handle up to
400 ha of new land and 400 ha of second year cultivation.



- 10 -
4.07      The ultimate objective would be reasonable self-reliance for each
farmer and his neighbors. Plots of 'L ha would allow farming to be carried
out by family labor.  After his fiirst year of operation, the farmer would
receive no mechanical cultivatior assistance. His farm year would be divided
into a 5-6 month wheat season anà a 6-7 month cotton season. He would use
limited amounts of fertilizer on wheat and none on cotton. He would protect
his cotton with ULV spraying. He would irrigate his land by furrow irriga-
tion techniques and would harvest both cotton and wheat by hand. The project
would assist the farmer by providing credit for the purchase of equipment,
seeds, and other seasonal inputs. More importantly, the project would provide
the farmer with effective extension advice. Once settled, the farmer would
come under the control of the extension staff, who would assess his assets
and advise him of additional needs and equipment. In the first year, he
would be expected to attend short orientation courses in the new techniques
and crops.  Thereafter, farmer training would be mainly in the field.
4.08      Three Service Centers would be built under the project.  Each center
,would have a 500 mJ warehouse for storage of fertilizers, insecticides and
farm equipment. Within the store would be incorporated a small office for
Service Center staff. The Service Centers would be used as collection centers
after harvest of the crops. Seven senior staff houses and nine junior staff
louses would be built at a site to be selected either at Bol or close to the
Matafo Research Station.
4.tj5     The Matafo Research Station Program which now covers agronomic
astec. sof polder developments would be expanded to evaluate the progress
of the project including both social and economic aspects. The Station would
continue its efforts to determine optimum cultural methods for the main crops
grown on the polders. Particular attention would be paid to improved methods
of cultivation, weed and insect control, and water application. The Research
Station would continue to screen *romising cotton and wheat varieties and
would intensify its research into maize. Fertilizer and trace element studies
would be made to determine the defEiciencies, if any, of zinc, manganese, and
sulphur   Continuous trials would be made to determine the long-term fertility
of Pr   r soils, including the rotations that would maintain current fertility.
Resr r-,ih into alternative irrigat:Lon methods in an attempt to reduce develop-
ment costs would be conducted, including experiments with low lift pumping
from traditional wells.  The Stat:ion would evaluate ongoing project results
-ind i.itiate a program to look into the sociological problems involved in
recruitment and settlement of farrners. The project provides for 108 man-
months of research staff.
Assistance for SODELAC Reorganizat:ion
4.10      The project includes 10 man-months of expert services to assist
SODELAC in its reorganization.



- i1 - 
C. Water Demand, Supply, Quality
4.11      Water Demand.  At full development (by year 1979) irrigation water
requirements for Guini and Berim polders, 1,170 ha of net area, would be
17 million m3 at the source (Annex 6). This assumes double cropping of wheat
and cotton, and an overall efficiency of 60%. The crop requirements are
based on experience at the Matafo Research Station on Guini polder. The
total water takeoff would be an infinitesimal portion (0.0003%) of the average
annual supply to Lake Chad.
4.12      Water Supply.  Given the principle of gravity irrigation from the
lake and constant downstream level gates adopted for the project, the water
intakes would be built so that the water level at the intake would be 1.1 m
above the polder bottom (or at 278.5 m + 1.1 m   279.6 a.s.l.).  This would
assure supplies according to the following probabilities which are based on
a study covering 105 years of lake water levels:
96 years in 100:    irrigation by gravity
3 years in 100:    pumping required for six months of
irrigation
1 year in 100:      no irrigation possible during four
months of the year (June-September).
These probabilities apply to the water intakes to be built at Berim. For
the existing water intake at Guini polder which was built about one meter
too high, it is estimated that pumping for irrigation would be required 10
years in 100; economic calculations show that this would be more advantageous
than constructing a new water intake. A small and permanent pumping station
would be built at the water intake for Guini polder. On Berim polder, the
pumps used to pump out drainage water would be moved to the water intakes
when necessary.
4.13      Water Quality.  The lake water at Bol is classified Cl Si in the
classification scheme of the US Salinity Laboratory. This is the best
category in all respects for irrigation. The electric conductivity (EC) of
the lake water at Bol ranges from 110 to 140 micromhos indicating a low
salinity content of about 70 mg/l (ppm). The water from the superficial
ground water table below the polders at depths of less than 1 m is not suit-
able for irrigation because of its salinity (5,600 ppm) and alkali charac-
teristics. The risk of salt accumulating through capillarity would be
reduced by lowering the ground water table to below root level, or 1.2 m
from the land surface, and by leaching through the irrigation process.



-12-
D. Status of Engineering and Consultants
4.14      Detailed engineering studies at a scale 1/5,000 for the irrigation
and drainage networks and at a smaller scale for the intakes and pumping
station have been completed. Bidding documents have been prepared. SŒET,
the consultants who did the feasibility and detailed engineering studies,
have been retained by FAC for bid preparation and to do a soil survey, and
have recently been retained to prcivide the project internationally recruited
staff (para 6.03).
4.15      Despite the many investigations of Guini and Berim soils, there
had not been any systematic soil survey, based on physical and chemical
characteristics that are important for long-term crop cultivation. Such a
survey has just been completed. It comprises 300 samples (one per 4 ha) with
30 analyzed in detail for texture and chemical characteristics. The soil
survey did confirm the general suitability of soils for cultivation.
E. Irrigation Works Construction
4.16      Construction of the water intakes and the pumping stations (US$0.9
million) and the supply of secondary irrigation pipes (US$2.1 million) would
be financed by the African Development Fund (AFDF) which would apply its
own procurement procedures. It is expected that construction of the water
intakes and pumping stations would be let to local competitive bidding, and
supply of pipes to international competitive bidding among AFDF member
countries. The remaining irrigation works would be small (US$2 million)
and would include different items such as construction of primary canals,
laying down secondary pipes and land-levelling. Because of their smallness
and their nature, it is proposed that the remaining works, which would be
financed by IDA, would be constructed by force account. Such works would
not require highly developed technical skills, as they would involve rela-
tively straightforward tasks. The force account approach would have the
advantage of (a) integrating the agricultural development with construction
of the irrigation systems; and (b) enabling SODELAC to acquire capability in
the basic irrigation construction techniques which would be an asset for
future expansion of polder development.
4.&7      The construction schedule (Annex 5, Table 2) takes into account
that the transport of supplies and equipment to Bol is only possible by
barge between December and March, when the lake level is high (para. 3.02),
and that it takes at least four months for imported supplies to reach Chad.
Assuming that construction starts by April 1, 1976, Guini would be entirely
completed by mid-1977, and Berim by mid-1978.



- 13 -
F. Project Impact on Ecology
4.18      The extent to which schistosomiasis and other diseases affect
people living in the project area is not known. Government should undertake
a limited epidemiological study of the project area to obtain base line
information on schistosomiasis and other diseases. The results of the study
would be reviewed by Government and IDA to determine the possibility of
extension of the diseases and what steps could reasonably be taken to control
them. USAID has shown an interest in financing such a study as part of a
national health program for Chad. Assurances that this study will be under-
taken were obtained at negotiations. It is likely that the project would
have no adverse impact upon the ecology, as it would not increase the inci-
dence of bilharzia, since the irrigation system would be concrete-lined and
use plastic pipes and no additional area would be permanently under water.
On the contrary, the project would have a positive impact on the ecology, as
it would preserve the soil fertility of Guini and Berim polders, which other-
wise would be rapidly destroyed by traditional irrigation methods.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to total CFAF 2,925 million (US$13
million), of which the foreign exchange component would be CFAF 2,340 million
(US$10.4 million) or 80% of total costs.
5.02      Project costs net of import duties and other clearly identifiable
taxes are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized in the following table:



- 14 -
CFAF                            % Foreign
millions          US$ 000         Exchange
Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Irrigation Works
Construction                         1,131   1,110   3,920   5,030    78
Supervision                            103       80     380      460    83
Commercial Unit Investment                167     140      600     740    81
Settlers Credit                           37       30      130     160    82
Agricultural Research
Cereals                                170      160      600     760    79
Cotton                                  23       20       80     100    80
Project Unit Overhead                     276     210   1,020   1,230    83
Other                                      32       -      140     140   100
Sub-total                         1,939   1,750   6,870   8,620    80
Physical Contingency                      218     200      770     970    80
Price Contingency                         768     680   2,730   3,410    80
Total Expected Project Cost             2,925   2,630  10,370  13,000    80
5.03      Project costs include:  construction and supervision of the irriga-
tion works; investment in the Field Operations Section (para 6.02):  farm
equipment, vehicles, housing and expatriate staff salaries; medium-term and
incremental short-term credit to farmers; all expenses related ta the Agri-
cultural Research Section: housing, equipment, vehicles, administrative
expenses, and research staff salaries; Project Unit overhead: housing,
vehicles, equipment, staff salaries, and administrative expenses for the
Project Unit Administrative and Workshop Sections during the four-year
disbursement period and; other: auditing, scholarships, and the cost of
the consultant in organization to SODELAC. Project costs do not include
the running cost of the commercial. unit farm machinery nor the cost of the
local extension staff salaries, the former being paid by the Project Unit
f'rom the sale of produce grown on newly developed land, and the latter being
paid by farmers through the water charges (Annex 7, Table 11).
5.04      Project costs include a physical contingency of 15% on irrigation
works, and 5% on all other project items and, in addition, a contingency to
cover expected inflation over the four-year disbursement period. 1I/ Physical
and price contingencies amount to CFAF 939 million (US$4.2 million) or 47%
of base costs. Base costs have been estimated at June 30th 1975. Expatriate
staff salaries include provision for back-up support services from the home
office of the consulting firm seconding such staff (para 6.03). Project
costs include the purchase of all equipment necessary for the construction
1/   Civil works:  1975, 16%; 1976, 14%; 1977, 12%; 1978-79, 10%; and for the
rest: 1975, 12%; 1976, 10%; 1977, 8%; 1978-79, 7%.



- 15 -
of those irrigation works to be built by force account, and for the opening
of up to 400 ha of new land annually by the Field Operations Section. The
equipment would have a useful life beyond its project utilization--estimated
at 35% for construction equipment and 50% for agricultural equipment--and it
would be further used for development of Mamdi or other polders.
5.05      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all goods required
for the project would be exempt from import duties and taxes.
5.06      The costs of the project are high with civil works costing, with-
out contingencies, US$4,800/ha in 1975 terms.  This cost is not representative
of the total cost of developing a new polder because the project polders were
diked and dried out some 15 years ago.  Developing a polder from scratch is
estimated to cost US$6,300 for civil works in 1975 terms. This very high
cost reflects a number of conditions specific to Chad; these include (a) hîgh
external transportation costs due to Chad's landlocked position and distance
from the sea; (b) high internal transportation costs and the problems of the
lake passage; (c) lack of a technically developed Chadian domestic contract-
ing industry.  This lack, combined with a generally small market and unattrac-
tive working environment for foreign contractors, resuilts in minimal price
or design competition; and (d) a generally low level of experience in irriga-
tion and major civil works in Government agencies that tends to preclude the
investigation of possible lower cost construction methods. It does not
appear that the above situation will change in the short run, although it
should improve as experience is built up through the implementation of
irrigation projects. Other major items in project costs are also high on a
per hectare basis but generally reflect the diseconomies of a small scale
operation. For example, costs of the commercial unit and project unit over-
head, totaling US$2,000/ha in 1975 terms, could be spread over more than
double the 1,200 ha covered by this project.
B. Proposed Financing
5.07      It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$5 million to finance
38% of total project costs excluding import duties and other identifiable
taxes. The credit would cover some 48% of the foreign cost estimated at
CFAF 2,340 million or US$10.4 million. The remainder of project costs would
be met by: the African Development Fund (AFDF), US$5 million covering 38%
of total expected project costs; USAID, US$1 million covering 8%; Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), US$2 million covering 16%. As AFDF and FAC
financings are critical for implementation of the project, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that AFDF board approval of the AFDF credit, and that
FAC committee approval of the FAC grant would be conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed IDA credit. The LUSAID grant, which would finance only the
research for cereals, is not as critical for the implementation of the project,
and its approval was not made a condition of effectiveness. As SODELAC's
major source of revenue would be the water charges, or consolidated fee, paid
by farmers (Annex 7, Table 11), the relending terms for the IDA credit and the
funds received from the other donors would be determined by the level of the



- 16 -
consolidated fee. For a consolidated fee of CFAF 130,000/ha, which is proposed
initially (para 7.13), relending terms to SODELAC would be: repayment of
100% of financing received, over 50 years, at an interest rate of 0.25% (para
7.14). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the relending terms to
SODELAC would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. Details of the
project financing plan are in Annex 7, Table 1 and are summarized in the
following table:
% of
IDA    AFDF    USAID    FAC      Total    Total
…------------ (US$ 000)  …_____
Irrigation Works
Construction               1,310   3,160               560    5,030       39
Supervision                  290       50              120      460        3
Commercial Unit Investment    400       160              180      740        6
Settlers Credit                120                        40      160        1
Agricultural Research
Cereals                                        760              760        6
Cotton                        80       -        -       20      100        1
Project Unit Overhead          800       90              340    1,230        9
Other                          100                        40      140        1
Sub-total               3,100    3,460      760  1,300    8,620       66
Physical Contingency           320       480      40    130       970        8
Price Contingency            1,580    1,060      200    570    3,410        26
Total                        5,000    5,000   1,000  2,000   13,000        100
.7.                                38%      38%     8%      16%
5.08      The proposed financing plan recognizes that each source of financ-
ing has its own financing and disbursement procedures which are not fully
and mutually compatible. AFDF, which cannot finance goods or services
supplied from non-member countries, would finance in parallel to IDA;
100% of the irrigation works built by local contractors, 100% of the procure-
ment of PVC secondary distribution pipes, 100% of the equipment required for
construction of the irrigation works, and 100% of the construction contracts
for staff housing and service centers to be built by local contractors
(para 4.16). It is assumed that USAID would finance 100% of the agricultural
research component for cereals. FAC prefers to disburse pari passu with IDA.
For this reason, the proposed financing plan assumes that IDA and FAC would
finance pari passu-71%-29%-- all project items except those financed by
A4FDF and USAID.
5.09      As Chad is unable to prefinance project expenditures, IDA would
finance a revolving fund of CFAF 100 million (US$0.4 million), which would
be held and operated by Banque de Developpement du Tchad and used to pre-
finance project activities and items fiinanced by IDA.  The cofinancers
would be encouraged to make similar arrangements.  To facilitate the early
start of the project, it is proposed that IDA finance retroactively starting
October lst expenditures incurred under IDA's share of the project in an
amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent.



- 17 -
C. Procurement
5.10      For those project items financed by IDA and FAC, the following
would apply:  orders or contracts for equipment, cement, vehicles or chem-
icals with a value of more than US$25,000 would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such procure-
ment is estimated to have a value of CFAF 400 million 1/ or US$1.8 million.
Some CFAF 200 million 1/ or US$1.1 million would be for operating expenses
unsuitable for competitive bidding. The expatriates posted to the project
would be provided under contract by a firm recruited internationally accord-
ing to IDA guidelines; their salaries would amount to CFAF 400 million or
US$1.7 million. The remaining CFAF 500 million or US$2.4 million would be
for contingencies. AFDF and USAID procurement procedures would apply to
those project items they would finance in amounts of US$5.0 million 2/
and US$1.0 million 2/ respectively (para 4.16).
D. Disbursements
5.11      The proceeds of the IDA credit (US$5 million) would be disbursed
over four years (1976-1979) as follows:
US$ Million
Category I    Cement, equipment,
vehicles, chemicals         1.3          71% of total expenditure
Category II   Operating expenses,
local staff                 0.8          71% of total expenditure
Category III  Expatriate technical
assistance                  1.1          71% of total expenditure
Category IV   Consulting services,
audit, scholarships         0.1          71% of total expenditure
Category V    Unallocated                    1.7
Total                   5.0
5.12      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion, contracts, and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements
made against certified records of expenditures, documentation would not be
submitted for review as a matter of course, but would be retained by the
Project Unit for scrutiny by Bank supervision missions. Any surplus credit
1/   Prior to Physical and Price contingencies.
2/   After Physical and Price contingencies.



- 18 -
funds after completion of the pro-ect would be used to further develop
services to farmers. The estimated schedule of disbursement of the IDA
çredit is at Annex 7, Table 13.
5.13      To ensure that the financial viability of the project would not
be endangered by SODELAC's other activities, which financially are loss-
mraking, SODELAC lost US$143,000 equivaient in the year 1973/74 (Annex 4),
the following steps have been discussed with Government:
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, Government would pay in its
outstanding share of SODELAC's capital, CFAF 70 million
(US$94,000), and pay SODELAC the subsidies budgeted for
SODELAC in fiscal years 1972/1973 and 1973/1974, and which
total CFAF 54 million (US$254,000). These steps would make
it possible for SODELAC to pay its outstanding accounts
with its creditors.
(b)  At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that SODELAC would ensure full payment to farmers for
seed cotton and wheat crops without any deduction other
than the consolidated fee (para 7.13) and that in the
future Government would meet promptly the full costs of
those services provided by SODELAC at the request of
Governnent to farmers outside the project area.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.14      Accounts for the Project Unit and for SODELAC would be kept sepa-
rately under acceptable commercial accounting procedures. Both sets of
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors mutually accept-
able to Government and IDA. Audited annual accounts, balance sheets and
operating statements would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
closing of the financial year. Assurances to the above effect were obtained
at negotiations. The farmers' consolidated fee would be paid into a
special account kept by the Project Unit and debited with payments for current
expenses and debt service to Government (para 7.13).
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Orgaaization
6.01      The project wouid be carried out by Societe de Developpement du
Lac (SODELAC) through a Project Uni;: created for that purpose. SODELAC is
a small, government owned corporation (para 3.10 and Annex 4), established
in 1967, which is responsible for the Lake region development. SODELAC



- 19 -
presently is engaged in three types of activities: polder development,
rainfed development, and a number of other activities such as use of company
vehicles for general transportation purposes, marketing of dry fish, and
construction of refrigerated rooms at N'Djamena airport for storage of
potatoes grown in the polders. These latter activities have resulted in a
dispersion of SODELAC's management effort and increased its losses. SODELAC
needs to be reorganized and particularly, to limit its activities to those
of providing agricultura; extension services which it is committed to provide
on behalf of Government to farmers and for which it is paid by Government,
and those marketing activities which are authorized by its general charter
and which are profitable. Government agrees with the need for a reorganiza-
tion. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a consultant, 10 man-months,
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA would be appointed within six months
of credit effectiveness to assist SODELAC in its reorganization, and that the
consultant's recommendations would be reviewed by Government and IDA with the
intention of agreeing on a timetable for the implementation of the recommen-
dations. Pending the results of the organization study and agreement of
Goverument and IDA on the modalities of reorganization, the Project Unit
would remain financially independent of SODELAC's other activities. Such
assurances vere obtained at negotiations. After the project development
period the Project Unit would be merged into SODELAC.
6.02      A new SODELAC president has recently been designated.  His experience
and qualifications are acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that the Association and Government would exchange views prior to the
appointment of a new president for SODELAC. The President would be responsible
overall for the project, but he would be more actively engaged in supervising
SODELAC activities outside the project. The Project Unit Manager would report
to him, and would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the project
and for coordinating the work of the five project sections. The section heads
would report to the Project Manager. An organization chart and the job
descriptions for key staff are in Annex 8. The functions of the sections
are si-mmarized below:
-    Administration Section, responsible for the establishment
and the financial supervision of construction and suppliers
contracts, project accounting, staff administration,
financial arrangements for agricultural credit and for crop
marketing.
-    Rural Engineering Section, responsible for the technical
preparation of contracts, supervision of contractors,
execution of works on force account, maintenance and opera-
tion of the irrigation and drainage networks in the first
years of project implementation.



- 20 -
Field Operations Section, responsible for developing up to
400 ha of polder land annually through a fully mechanized
subsection, training extension staff and farmers in coopera-
tion with the Research Section, extension services, farmers
credit assessment and distribution, practical arrangements
for crop marketing, enforcement of lease contracts by farmers.
Agricultural Research Section, responsible for continuing
applied research, determining long-term fertility of polder
soils under continuous cultivation experimenting with
small lift pumps and evaluating project results. It would
also assist the Field Operations Section in training Staff
and farmers.
T'orkshop Section, responsible for vehicle maintenance and
repair, and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
networks in the latter years of project implementation.
B. Staffing
6.03      The Project Unit Manager and key project staff would be recruited
internationally, 264 man-months, as Chad is acutely short of qualified
personnel. Internationally recruited staff would be employed for four years
for the posts of Project Unit Manager, Director of Field Operations, and
Chief Mechanic. International recruitment would also be required for the
posts of Rural Engineer, Topographer, and Commercial Manager with tenures of
less than the four-year development period.  It is essential that inter-
nationally recruited staff form a compatible team under the harsh living
conditions prevailing in the polders area, and that it be sufficiently back-
stopped in technical matters. For these reasons, internationally recruited
staff would be provided by an international company with recognized expertise
to carry out irrigation projects, including construction of works. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the company and the terms and conditions of
employment of the seconded staff would be mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA. Evidence of the selection of the company would be a condition of
board presentation. Appointment of the Project Unit Manager would be a con-
dition of credit effectiveness. Government has decided to appoint the French
consultants SCET-INTERNATIONAL to provide the internationally recruited staff.
SCET prepared the project and operated the Matafo Research Station from 1970
until 1972. SCET is acceptable to IDA.
6.04      The research staff, 108 man-months, including an Agronomist, an
Agro-Economist and a Soul Scientist would be recruited by USAID under its own
procedures. Assurances were obtained at negotîations that the research staff
would have qualifications and experience acceptable to Government and IDA.



- 21 -
6.05      High and medium-level local staff would belong to one of the follow-
ing specialities: Agricultural Engineer, or ITA (Ingenieur des Travaux
Agricoles), Rural Engineer or ITR (Ingenieur des Travaux Ruraux), Accountant.
There are a number of experienced ITA staff available in the country. The
first classes of ITR and accounting staff graduated in early 1974. Recruit-
ment of high- and medium-level local staff should therefore not be a problem.
Such staff would be seconded to the Project as government employees on full
pensionable service. They would be housed by the Project.
6.06      Farm level extension workers would be recruited among SODELAC
personnel already on Guini and Berim polders, and among literate candidates
conversant in the local language. The ratio of extension workers to farmers
would be one-to-30 in the first two years, increasing to one-to-100 in Year
Three. This high ratio should allow extension staff to properly train
farmers in agricultural techniques, particularly the application of water.
Extension workers would report to a Section Extension Officer who would be
an ITA, in charge of an irrigation unit of 400 ha.
C.  Farmers' Settlement
6.07      The project feasibility study has verified the population within
a 60 km radius of the project area at 62,200 people, of which there would
be 7,000 farm families (Annex 3). About 700 farm families already live
in the project area. The development of the two project polders would
require a total of 1,150 farm families, if they are given on the average
a 1 ha plot to cultivate. It is reasonable to assume that since all farm
families in the project area already practice traditional irrigation, they
would join the project. Some 450 farm families would settle from outside
the project area. As this accounts for only 7% of the farming population
located within a 60 km radius, it should not be difficult to recruit settle-
ment farmers.
6.08      While polder lands legally belong to the State (decree August 1,
1967), and SODELAC is authorized under law to organize the settlement of
farmers on newly developed polder lands, in order to avoid any misunder-
standing, it is proposed that a decree should be issued by Government that
would stipulate that:
(a)  the rights of farmers already cultivating land in the Guini
and Berim polders would be examined according to
common law;
(b)  farmers whose rights could be established would be given
priority for land allocation;
(c)  SODELAC would be the sole agency mandated to allocate the
polders to settlers on behalf of Government;



- 22-
(d)  SODELAC would be authorized to repossess farmers' land
in case of noncompliance of farmers' obligations; and
(e) the decree would be bincling for all Ministries, particularly
MATE, MA, the Finance Ministry and the Lake Prefecture.
Assurances that this decree would be established were obtained at negotiations,
and its publication would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.09      Selection of farmers anc determination of their land tenure
arrangements with SODELAC would be made jointly by the Project and the Comite
Prefectoral du Developpement Rural, the latter comprising representatives
c,f the prefecture, of various ifinistries, and politicians. Farmers would
be selected according to a number of criteria including: present proximity
to the polders, size of family, farming experience, and existing assets--
including ownership of bullocks. Initially, candidates whose main activity
is farming would be considered. Land allocation would be limited to what a
family can handle effectively by itself without mechanical or temporary help
(para 4.07). It is estimated that the average family, which is composed of
2.8 adults, could not handle more than 1 ha of irrigated land in addition to
cultivating 1.3 ha of rainfed millet on the dunes. Larger families could be
allocated more. Assurances were obtained that IDA's approval would be
required if farmers were allotted more than 2 ha per family. Allocation of
less than 1 ha per family would be possible and left to the judgment of the
Project and the Comite Prefectoral du Developpement Rural who should then
be careful not to decrease farmers' incentives for participating in the
project and not to increase the problems connected with settlement of a
greater number of farmers.
6.10      Farmers would be assured security of tenure for three years.
SODELAC reglementation would specily the rights and obligations of SODELAC,
or the Project Unit on behalf of SODELAC, and the farmer. The Project Unit
would control water supply for irrigation, crop cultivation patterns,
maintenance of irrigation works, marketing, extension and credit operations.
Farmers would be assured continuity of operation, supply of water, basic
services and sale of their produce at guaranteed prices. Farmers would pay
an annual consolidated fee to cover oDerating and maintenance costs incurred
by the Project Unit and capital recovery (see para 7.12). Annéx 3 lists the
settlers' various obligations. Assurances were obtained that Polder lanls
iro,-ld be allotted to farmers under ternis and conditions mutually acceptable
ta Covernment and IDA.
6.11      If farmers do not comply with their obligations, their lands could
be repossessed. The decision to repossess holdings or to impose other
disciplinary action would be made by the Project, but advice would be sought
f rom the Unit Council (Conseil de Perimietre) to which the farmer belonged.
Unit Councils would be created for each irrigation unit (para 4.04) and
wculd include representatives of farmers and the extension staff assigned
to the Unit.



- 23 -
D. Training
6.12      High- and medium-level local staff would receive on-the-job train-
ing so as to be in a position to replace expatriate staff after the project
development period. Training abroad in job specialities would also be
encouraged through project-financed scholarships, i.e., to water management
institutes.
6.13      Extension workers would be trained at Matafo Research Center for
a period of two cropping seasons. Training would be essentially practical
and would focus on wheat and cotton cultivation methods, irrigation methods,
ox-drawn cultivation, agricultural credit crop marketing, and farmers'
compliance with their leasing agreements. Training would be administered
jointly by the Field Operations Section and the Agricultural Research
Section.
6.14      Once settled, a farmer would attend very short (3-4 day) training
courses to familiarize him with the new techniques and crops he will be
encountering. Those courses would be given by the extension staff at one
of the three Project Service Centers. Thereafter, his training would be
mainly in the field.
E. Credit
6.15      The project includes a revolving fund that would be used for the
provision of credit for farm inputs (fertilizers, insecticides and improved
seeds) and for the purchase of farm equipment and oxen.  Once the Project
Unit becomes an integral part of SODELAC (para 6.01), the revolving fund
would pass under the administration of SODELAC. All credit would be made
in kind to the farmers. Seasonal credit would average about CFAF 67,000
per ha per year and would carry an interest rate of 10%, the prevailing rate
in Chad.  It would be repaid after each crop.  Medium-term credit would
average CFAF 79,000, at an interest rate of 10%, and would be repaid over
5 years. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the interest rates
and repayment terms of such agricultural credit would be acceptable to
Government and IDA.



- 24 -
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES,
FARMERS BENEFITS AND RECOVERY OF COSTS
A. Yields and Production
7.01      The excellent soil fertility of the polders, the simple cropping
pattern, wheat and cotton, the limitation on holding size to that which the
farm family can handle efficiently with its own labor, should result in
very satisfactory yield levels. It has been estimated, therefore, that
cotton and wheat yields under the project would average 2,500 kg/ha of
seed cotton and of grain respectively. These yields are 55-60% of the
yields obtained on research plots on Guini polder, and below yields already
obtained by farmers on Guini polder in 1972 when averages of 3,500 kg/ha
for seed cotton and 3,000 kg/ha for wheat were obtained on an area of 30 ha.
7.02      Project induced production would total about 3,000 tons of wheat
and 3,000 tons of seed cotton annually by 1980. It is expected that about
600 tons of wheat would be consumed by participating farm families. Farmers
,would also produce vegetables for their own consumption on their small
polder gardens. Garden production is not quantifiable at this time.
B.  World Markets and Prices for Project Produced Commodities
7.03      World wheat production and consumption is expected to continue
expanding at its historic growth rate of slightly more than 2% until 1985.
The world food system has long been based on the existence of massive stocks
in the developed countries, primarily the USA, which helped stabilize world
prices. Wheat remained at US$60-70/ton f.o.b. US port from mid-1950's until
the early '70's when serious crop shortfalls in 1972-73 demonstrated the
inadequacy of a system depending on commercial stockpiling of a few export-
ing countries. Occurrence of a record wheat crop in 1973-74 and a reason-
able one in 1974-75 restored some degree of confidence in the system, and
in recent months has led to a substantial easing of pressure on prices.
Wheat prices doubled in 1973 to US$147/ton and reached US$209/ton in 1974.
The Bank's Economic Commodities and Exports Projections Division (ECEPD)
expects wheat to trade between US$190/ton and US$175/ton in 1975 and to
decrease to US$125/ton in constanir 1974 terms by 1980-81 (Annex 9, Table 2).
7.04      World cotton consumption is tied to the level of world economic
activity. Consumption declined sharply in 1974 and 1975 in the developed
countries, where severe recession prevailed. Consumption prospects should
iLmprove by 1976. Production and consumption should be expanding at around
the historical rate of 2% per annum from 1976 to 1985. Cotton prices in
1973 constant dollar terms declined by one-third between 1955 and 1966,
stabilized between 1966 and 1972, and increased about 40% in 1973 during the



- 25 -
commodity price boom. The price of the Mexican SM 1-1/1i6", which is the
standard for Bank's projections, reached US cents 62/lb c.i.f. Europe in
1973 and decreased in 1974 to US cents 54/lb. ECEPD forecasts that competi-
tive pressures from man-made fibers will keep it at about the latter level,
in 1974 cosntant terms, until 1985. It is expected that the longer staple
grown under the project (1-3/32") should continue to fetch a US cents 1.5/lb
length premium over the standard (Annex 9, Table 2).
C. Local Marketing and Prices
7.05      Currently, most wheat grown in the polders is marketed locally
and eventually exported illegally to Nigeria. 1/ SODELAC has responsibility
for organizing wheat purchases from growers in the project area and fer
transporting the crop to consutnption centers, principally N'Djamena (Annex
4). A number of reasons, including low yields during the drought years 1970
throughout 1973, the impossibility of using the lake for transport in 1972
and 1973, and unrealistically low official producer prices led to the amount
of wheat marketed by SODELAC falling from 1,300 tons in 1970-71 to 150 tons
in 1973-74. On the other hand, purchases by private traders have increased
to a significant extent.
7.06      To encourage the sale of wheat through SODELAC and thus the supply
of domestic rather than Nigerian markets, Governxnent increased the official
producer price for wheat from CFAF 20/kg to CFAF 32/kg in 1974. As a
consequence, the amount of wheat marketed by SODELAC will reach record levels
in 1974/1975. Since 1974, SODELAC is guaranteed a CFAF 18/kg margin to
market and transport wheat to the flour mill.  This margin adequately covers
SODELAC expenses. SODELAC is therefore paid CFAF 50/kg by the flour mill
(CFAF 41/kg in 1973 terms). This compares with economic values for project
wheat of CFAF 53-52/kg in 1973 constant terms over the period 1976-1985
(Annex 9, Table 2).
7.07      SODELAC sells its wheat to the Grands Moulins du Tchad (GMT),
a private company which has the monopoly for flour milling and importing in
Chad. GIT's mill in N'Djamena operates at only a fraction of its capacity,
12,000 tons annually, as the quantity of wheat produced locally is insuffi-
cient for capacity production. To meet internal demand, GMT has been import-
ing wheat flour processed in its Dakar, Senegal mill. Given the relatively
small quantities of domestic wheat 2/ that will be available in the next
few years, it is clear that the mill will continue to operate substantially
1/   Chad prohibits the export of wheat.
2/   The major source of domestic wheat will be the project wheat, which is
expected to reach only 3,000 tons at full development.



- 26 -
below capacity, and that milling costs will remain high.  There is no other
rmili or other alternative for processing project produced wheat.  Governnent
therefore agrees that, in order to take into account this high milling cost,
wheat should be sold to GMT at a discount from its import substitution price.
7.08      SODELAC and GMT would enter into a formal agreement by which GMT
would purchase project produced wlheat. The agreement would be made by
SODELAC in the name of the farmers.  It would stipulate the price to be paid
to farmers. SODELAC's expenses for transDort and marketing would be paid
by farmers through the consolidated fee (para 7.12). The discount to be
given GMT would be negotiated between Government, SODELAC and GMT, and would
be essentially the function of the amounts of wheat sold. Governnent was
requested during negotiations to mnake all necessary efforts to keep the
discount small, if possible, below the 20% level implicitly implied by the
f'armers present producer prices of CFAF 50/kg. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) SODELAC would enter into a formal agreement with GMT
under which GMT would purchase project produced wheat at a price based on a
formula that would attribute to project wheat its effective economic value,
less a factor to take into account GMT's high milling costs, and (b) that
the formula which would be acceptable to Governnent, GMT, SODELAC and IDA
would be established no later than December 31, 1976. Agreement between
GMT and SODELAC would be a condition of effectiveness.
7.09      Cotontchad, a Government majority-owned corporation has a mono-
poly of seed cotton purchasing, cotton ginning, and marketing cotton lint
and seed. It owns and operates 22 cotton ginneries mostly located in the
south of the country. It is presently establishing a simall cotton ginnery
at Bol (1,000 ton capacity), which will have a capacity sufficient to process
all the cotton grown outside the project area and project production during
the first 3 years. Expansion of this ginnery will essentially depend on
whether Mamdi polder is developed. Its developmnent would bring the total
production of seed cotton in the Bol area to about 8,000 tons, which would
justify the construction of a modern ginnerv of two 120 saw units, each
with a 4,000 ton capacity.
7.10      Under the project  SODELAC would enter into a long-term agreement
wiLth Cotontchad under which Cotontchad would commit itself to buy project
produced cotton at prices tied to the world market.  The economic farm gate
price for project seed cotton would be around CFAF 167/kg of lint, CFAF 60/kg
of seed cotton, 1/ in 1973 constant: terms (Annex 9, Table 2).   Profits made
by Cotontchad are a major source of Government revenue. For example,
CFAF 2.8 billion (US$12 million), 80% of Cotontchad profits, were paid to
Government Caisse de Stabilisation in 1973/74. This is in addition to a
cotton tax of CFAF 17/kg of seed cotton levied on all lint exported. In
shiort, Cotontchad operates a taxing system on cotton farmers who, while
poor by any standards, are the most affluent in the country. It is proposed
in the interest of equity that the same "taxing" systemn be applied to project
farmers by paying to them the samie price paid to rainfed cotton farmers,
1/   The yield outturn of lint from. seed cotton is about 40%.



- 27 -
plus a prenium for the better staple length and quality of the cotton and
an adjustment for transportation costs which would not be incurred. Conse-
quently, in project financial projections, it is assumed that Cotontchad
would pay a price of CFAF 53/kg for project produced seed cotton delivered
to the ginnery. This would compare with the CFAF 45/kg Cotontchad now pays
producers for the shorter staple cotton 1/ grown in the south. Of the
difference of CFAF 8/kg, CFAF 5/kg are collection costs incurred in the
south, but not applicable to project cotton, which would be collected by the
Project Unit and delivered to the ginnery. The costs of collection and
delivery would be incorporated in the farmers' consolidated fee. This
pricing system would give Bol farmers a net premium of CFAF 3/kg for their
cotton which is consistent with the difference that its longer staple lint
would fetch on world markets, usually about US$0.015/kg (CFAF 8/kg). 2/
Agreement that Cotontchad and SODELAC have agreed on a long-term contract
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Assurances were also obtained
at negotiations that the price paid by Cotontchad for project produced
cotton would always be at a level acceptable to Government, SODELAC and
IDA.
D. Farmers Benefits and Cost Recovery
7.11      A model budget for a typical settler who would cultivate 1 ha of
polders, 1.3 ha of millet on the dunes, a polder garden and keep an average
of 3.5 animal units is in Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3. The budget is expressed
in 1975 terms. Excluding the value of the garden produce, which cannot be
quantified at this time, total gross income would amount to CFAF 282,500
(US$1,256) p.er family, about US$300 per capita, compared to CFAF 32,900
(US$146), US$35 per capita, prior to the project (about half the national
GDP average). Without the project no change in farmers' income is antici-
pated. While income would increase substantially, the amount of work re-
quired of the family would also increase on irrigation activities alone,
from an estimated 93 to 364 man-days annually (rainfed agriculture requiring
some 25 man-days), still leaving some 476 man-days for other activities.
7.12      After meeting direct production costs--seed, fertilizers, pesti-
cides, debt service on credit received for seasonal inputs--and after meeting
food requirements, the family farming one ha of irrigated land would be in
receipt of an income of CFAF 245,500 (US$1,091) annually, assuming achievement
of the yields and prices set out in paras 7.01 7.03 and 7.04. Clearly,
the family would be able to meet the cost of services provided to it by
SODELAC, i.e., the operation and maintenance (O and M) cost of the irrigation
system, the cost of extension and other SODELAC overhead, and costs incurred
in collecting and delivering the families' produce to Cotontchad and GMT.
1/   Southern cotton is 1-1/32" to 1-1/16" long; Bol cotton would be 1-3/32"
long.
2/   The yield outturn of lint from seed cotton is about 40%.



- 28 -
On the basis of the estimates in Annex 7, Table 11, annual O and M costs
are estimated at CFAF 28,000/ha; extension services and other project
management overhead CFAF 32,000/ha; and produce collection and delivery
CFAF 14,000/ha; total CFAF 74,000C/ha. Following payment of these charges,
the family would remain in receipt of CFAF 171,500 (US$762) annually.
There is neither a governmental policy for the recovery of irrigation project
investment costs from participants nor an understanding of the level of
incentives, financial and othenrise, that families require to induce them
to remain and efficiently farm irrigated holdings. It would appear, however,
that a net family income of CFAF 115,500 (US$513) which would imply a return
of CFAF 297 per man-day worked by the family on the holding, and which would
compare with a return of CFAF 85 per man-day employed in traditional irrigated
cultivation, would be a minimal incentive. The figure of CFAF 297 is twice
the official daily labor rate. This would permit the farm family to make
a sizable payment of CFAF 56,000/ha annually to partly amortize project
investment costs.
7.13      Farmers would, therefore, initially and temporarily be charged a
consolidated fee of CFAF 130,000/1a (US$578) 1/.  This was the maximum
accepted by Governnent at negotiations, and about 7 times the payments made
by farmers on the Bangor irrigation scheme in the southern part of the
country.  This fee would be reviewed fromn time to time and especially every
three years at the end of the security tenure arrangements. It should then
be possible to determine whether the level of the consolidated fee is
adequate on the basis of farmers' response to the opportunity to prolong
farming. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the level of the
consolidated fee, which would be set initially and tenporarily at CFAF
il30,000/ha, would always be acceptable to SODELAC Government and IDA and
that it would be reviewed on an annual basis until such time that all thie
parties were satisfied that the formula employed in establishing the
consolidated fee was satisfactory. The consolidated fee would be paid by
farmrers in two equal installments through deductions from the sale of their
seed cotton and their wheat. Payments would be credited to two accounts,
cine which would initially receive CFAF 74,000/ha per year and which would
be used by the Project Unit to meet jts operating expenses (para 7.12), and
the other, which would initially receive CFAF 56,000/ha per year and which
would be used to repay government investment in the proiect. Both accounts
would be kept by the Project Unit until such time as the Project Unit becomes
an integral part of SODELAC (para 6.01).
7.14      Farmers' payments wou]d enable SO1)ELAC to cover alL its operal ing
charges (para 7.12) and to repay governmeent invxstrnent i- tiCluh projeci- ovi-
a 50-year period at a nominal interest chargo of 0(.25  (pa)ra '5.0/).  P`xpr<i;iil
differently, assuming the country's cost oft capital to be 1OZ, Governmtieln
recovery through the consoliclated fee alone  from its initial investnienL aind
recurrent expenditures in the project would be 40% over a 50-year period
1/   CFAF 74,000/ha, plus CFAF 56,000/ha.



- 29 -
(Annex 10, Table 1). Governmient recovery would increase to 68%, if project
induced cotton taxes, and profits generated by Cotontchad are added to the
consolidated fee (Annex 10, Table 2). 1/ All three measures indicate a
certain degree of government subsidy, which is justified given that the
project is economically viable and that farmers' response must be tested
prior to increasing the consolidated fee.
VIII.  ECONOM7C BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the 3,000 tons of wheat and
the 3,000 tons of seed cotton production that it would generate annually,
and which would result in higher incomes for some 1,200 farm families
assuming that each farm family is given 1 ha of irrigated land to cultivate.
At the present farm family size, verified by the project feasibility study
at 4 persons, a minimum of about 5,000 people would benefit directly from the
project. If farmers are allotted 0.5 ha in the polders, and if the farm
family size increases, say to 6 persons, through increased birth rates made
possible by better diets and higher incomes, and through the attraction to
the project area of members of the extended family, the number of people who
would eventually benefit directly from the project may reach some 14,000.
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is estimiated at
17% (Annex 11, Table 1). Important assumptions used in the calculations are:
(a)  economic farm gate prices in 1973 constant CFAF terms
as projected bv the Bank's Economic Analysis and
Projections Division based on export parity for
cotton lint and import substitution for wheat;
(b)  shadow CFAF rate of 270 per US$ instead of the current
exchange rate of CFAF 225 per US$ to take account of
existing import and export taxes and the additional
factors that weaken Chad's balance of payments and
result in durable, low levels of reserves;
(c)  inclusion as an economic cost of the foregone income
of farmers engaged in traditional irrigation and other
activities; this income is estimated at CFAF 7,900/year
per family; however, no opportunity cost has been attri-
buted to the incremental work effort required of farmers
under the project (364 days versus 93);
1/   Part of the Cotontchad operating profit can be viewed as a monopsonist's
profit akin to a government tax. Neither this profit nor the regular
cotton tax are comparable with the consolidated fee.  The fee is specifie
to the project, whereas the operating profit and the cotton tax are not
specific.  They are general taxes paid also by farmers not profiting
from the project.



- 30 -
(d)  exclusion of the costs of the agricultural research
component and of the costs of consulting services for
SODELAC's reorganization since the benefits they would
generate would be attributable to development activities
beyond the scope of the project.
8.02      A sensitivity analysis of the economic rate of return is in Annex
11, Table 2 and is summarized below.
Benefits (%)              100   90  110  100  100
Costs (Z)                 100  100  100   90  110
Rate of return (%)         17   14   19   19   14
This sensitivity analysis indicates that the project's rate of return would
be very sensitive to variations in benefits or costs.  A variation of bene-
fits or costs of 1% would result in an absolute change of 0.2 to 0.3 percentage
points in the project's rate of return. Without shadow pricing of the foreign
exchange, the rate of return would become 16%. Costing the additional farmer
labor required for polder cultivation (271 days per ha per year and per family)
at CFAF 170/day, which is the minimum wage in the agricultural sector, would
bring the rate of return to 13%, which is still acceptable.
8.03      The project would have a number of secondary benefits which have
not been included in the economic rate of return calculations:
(a) It would prevent the progressive salinization and eventual
abandonment of Guini and Berim polders. About 70% of the
22,000 ha empoldered since 1959 have become unsuitable, possibly
permanently, for cultivation, as traditional irrigation exacer-
bates the natural salinization process and is resulting in the
destruction of this major resource.
(b) It would create a pole of development in the so far under-
privileged northern part of Chad; it would help stabilize the
farm community, which otherwise would continue migrating to
the south and the towns; it would help reduce the income
disparity between the norrhern and the southern regions of
the country and between the rural and urban populations.
(c)  It would help strengthen the balance of payments of the
country by providing a permanent source of foreign exchange
earnings and savings. Nei: foreign exchange earnings would
amount to US$2 million anmually by 1980.
(d)  It would provide a reliaDle source of agricultural production,
which in case of drought could be converted entirely to the
production of cereals, and thus reduce the need to import
food to avert famine; it would also provide the crop by-products
needed to establish a livestock finishing industry in the Bol
area; and



- 31 -
(e) It would provide a basis for the development of a modern
technology in irrigated agriculture.
8.04      The risks attached to the project have been considered from several
angles:  technical, institutional, and social.  The risks have been reduced
insofar as possible and are considered worth taking. The project finances
only those Irrigation Works whose study has been carried to the stage of detail
engineering and final design. The project will be carried out by the agency
responsible for Lake Chad development (SODELAC), but through a well staffed
and well equipped Project Unit which will be created for that purpose within
SODELAC. The Lake Region population, although somewhat sparse, and as yet not
much involved in modern irrigation, has repeatedly shown a strong interest in
polder development and in learning modern irrigation techniques, first, 15 years
ago when they participated in the construction of dikes for those parts of the
lake which were then empoldered, and more recently since 1970, when farmer
settlement started on Guini polder.
8.05      As indicated above, the project, although expensive by most standards
because of its pilot nature and the generally high cost of civil works in
Chad (see para 5.06), is fully justified economically. IDA's exposure in the
project is not large (38% of total financing required), but is essential for
the mobilization of aid from the three other donors (AFDF, FAC, and USAID).
Without IDA participation these agencies would reconsider theïr participation
in the project. As the proposed project is one of the very few, if not the
only project of any magnitude in the agriculture sector ready for financing
and execution, funds released by withdrawal of these other donors could not
immediately be reallocated to other projects.
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  Government should undertake a limited epidemiological study
of the project area. The results of the study would be
reviewed by Government and IDA to determine the possibility
of extension of the diseases and what steps could reasonably
be taken to control them (para 4.18).
(b)  All gooda required for the project would be exempt from
import duties and taxes (para 5.05).
(c)  The relending terms of project financing to SODELAC would
be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA (para 5.07).
(d)  SODELAC would ensure full payment to farmers for seed
cotton and wheat crops without any deduction other than
the consolidated fee, and in future Government would meet
promptly the full costs of those services provided by
SODELAC at the request of Covernment to farmers outside
the project area (para 5.13 (b)).



- 32 -
(e) Accounts for the Project Unit and for SODELAC would be
kept senarately under acceptable commercial accounting
procedures, and both sets would be audited annually by
independent auditors, mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA, and audited accounts would be submitted to IDA
within four months of the closing of the financial year
(para 5.14).
(f) A consultant mutually acceptable to Government and IDA
would be appointed withi.n six months of credit effective-
ness to assist SODELAC i'n its reorganization, and his
recommendations would be reviewed by Governnent and IDA
with the intention of agreeing on a timetable for the
implementation of the recommendations. Pending the results
of the study and agreement on the modalities of the reorga-
nization, the Project Unit would remain financially inde-
pendent of SODELAC's other activities (para 6.01).
(g) The Association and Government would exchange views prior
to the appointment of a new president for SODELAC (para 6.02).
(h) The company providing internationally recruited staff and
the terms and conditions of employment of the seconded staff
would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.03).
(i) The research staff would have qualifications and experience
acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.04).
(j)  A decree would be issued to reaffirm SODELAC's authority
to organize settlement of farmers on newly developed polder
land (para 6.08).
(k)  IDA's appr'oval would be required if farmers were allotted
more than 2 ha (para 6.09).
(1)  Polder lands would be allotted to farmers under terms and
conditions mutually acceptable to Government and IDA
(para 6.10).
(m) The agricultural credit :interest rates and repayment terms
would be acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.15).
(n)  SODeLAC would enter into a formal agreement with GMT under
which GMT would purchase project produced wheat at a price
based on a formula that would attribute to project wheat
its effective economic value, less a factor to take into
account G.T's high milling costs; and that the formula,
which would be acceptable to Governnent, GMT, SODELAC and



- 33 -
IDA, would be established no later than December 31, 1976
(para 7.08).
(o) Cotontchad would be required to buy project produced
cotton at prices tied to the world market and at a level
always acceptable to Government, SODELAC and IDA (para 7.10).
(p) The level of the consolidated fee, initially and temporarily
set at CFAF 130,000/ha would always be acceptable to SODELAC,
Government and IDA. It would be reviewed on an annual basis
until such time that ail parties were satisfied that the
formula employed in establishing the fee was satisfactory
(para 7.13).
9.02      Prior to presentation of the credit to IDA's executive directors,
IDA should have received evidence of the selection of the company which
would provide internationally recruited staff (para. 6.03).
9.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) AFDF board had approved the AFDF credit, and that the FAC
committee had approved the FAC grant (para 5.07)
(b)  IDA be informed by Governnent that it has paid in its
outstanding share of SODELAC's capital and the subsidies
budgeted for SODELAC in 1972/1973 and 1973/1974 so that
SODELAC could Day its outstanding accounts with its
creditors (para 5.13 (a)).
(c)  The Project Unit Manager would have been appointed
(para 6.03).
(d) The decree restating SODELAC's authority to organize settle-
ment of farmers on newly develped polder land would have
been published (para 6.08).
(e)  G1T and SODELAC have agreed on a long-term contract
(para 7.08).
(f) Cotontchad and SODELAC have agreed on a long--term contract
(para 7.10).
9.04      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$5 million to the Republic of Chad.






CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics
A. Cereals Production ('000 tons)
1964/   1965/   1966/   1967/   1968/   1969/   1970/   1971/   1972/   1973/   1974/
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Millet - Sorg'num       710     614      630      647     661      651      610      585     432      -        -
Rice                      3     -         37       32      32       37       39      41       42
Wheat                     4        5       5        5        6       8        7        7     -        -        -
Total      71 7    619      672      684     699      696      656     633      474      380      564
Food Requirements.-   41_8      425      432      439     1446     454      462      470     478      486      494
Food Surplus (Deficit)299        194     2h0      245      253      242     194      163      (4)    (106)       70
B. Seed Cotton Production ('000 tons)
Seed Cotton              -        87      122      102     148      117      95      108    104       115       140
LI  110 kg per inhabitant in Sahelian zone, and 160 kg per inhabitant in northern zone.



ANNEX 1
_:IAD                                    Table 2
CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricul'bural Statistics
Country Exorts
(CIPAF millions)
1971                1972                 1973
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _~~~_   _~ __
Cotton                5,225   67.1         6,056   67.1         5,380   63.4
Livestock
live cattle           279    3.6           374    4.1           439    5.2
sheeps/goats           18    0.2            il   0.1             25    0.3
carneis                88    1.1            86    1.0            99    1.2
carcass meat        1,477   19.0           904   10.0           562    6.6
salted meat            25    0.3            27    0.3            76    0.9
Fish                      32    0.4           96    1.1            48    0.6
Arabic gumn               37    0.5           45    0.5            23    0.3
N'atron                   12    0.2           90    1.0            41    o.5
SkLnsl/hides             91    1.2           112    1.2           220    2.6
Other                   503    6.4         1,227   13.6         1,570   18.4
Total     7,787  100.0         9,028  100.0        8,483  100.0
…                       



ANNEX 2
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Project Area Soils
General
1.        The soils of Guini and Berim polders have been examined and described
by a number of investigators and classified according to various technical
characteristics: depth to water table, salt content of groundwater, salt
content of the top 0.4 m of soil, and problems such as salinity and alkaliza-
tion. Despite all these studies, a systematic soil survey based on physical
characteristics that are important for long-term crop production (para 6) has
not yet been done, and will be undertaken prior to the start of the project.
2.        Over most of Guini and Berim, a dark, loose, mulch-like mixture of
clay or clay-loam, with 6 - 15% organic matter and 0.1 - 0.4 m thick, over-
lies a sandy or calcareous layer (or both) from a few to 50 cm thick; these
are underlain by a thick (0.5 - 2.0 m or more) lay of blocky, columnar, fissured
(highly permeable) heavy clay, generally coated with iron oxides. Other layers,
including mucks and loose muds, are sometimes encountered. There is consider-
able subsidence of the soil's surface related to the polderization process,
owing primarily to irreversible shrinkage of the heavy clay layer upon dessi-
cation and also because of rapid decomposition and hence shrinkage of the
highly organic surface layer.
3.        The soils of Guini and Berim polders are high in nutrient elements
and in clay and in cation exchange capacity; their clays are largely mont-
morillonite (50-70%) with lesser amounts of kaolinite (20-40%) and illite
(trace- 10%), are slightly to moderately saline, and are slightly to moderately
calcareous. Chemical reducing conditions in the highly organic, waterlogged
areas lead to formation of alkali soils in some locations and to acid soils in
others.
Soil Salinity
4.        Based on the electrical conductivity of the lake, which varies from
about 50 micromhos at the mouth of the Chari to a high of about 800 micromhos
along the distant northern shore, the salinity content varies from about
30 mg/l - 550 mg/l. When land is empoldered, the saline water evaporates in
a few years leaving a residue of salt in the soil and the groundwater slightly
saline. Neither soil nor groundwater normally is too high in salinity for
reasonably good crop production. However, such empoldered land, which is
usually cleared and planted as soon as possible, would contain enough moisture
for growth of only one crop if it were not for seepage of lake water through
and under the intervening dry land into the polders. It is estimated that
seepage amounts to about 2 m/ha/year. Thus, at a concSntration of 400 mg/i,
the salt content in the polders would increase 800 g/m /year. If all of this



ANNEX 2
Page 2
salt was concentrated in the surface two meters of soil, the average salt
content in the polders' soil would increase 0.04% per year, and reach the
danger level of 0.3% in less than eight years. The rate of salt accumulation
is, however, decreased by (a) precipitation of much of the calcium and some
of the magnesium in the soil mass as carbonates, (b) by diffusion of salts
into the groundwater and/or deep subsoil, (c) the blowing away of loose
surface deposits of salt by winds, (d) occasional submergence and desaliniza-
tion of polders by lake water and (e) slow seepage of diffused underground
salts away from some polders. Conversely, the rate of salt accumulation is
increased by the capillarity process, which accumulates salt close to the soil
surface, and on balance the danger level could be reached in less than eight
years.
5.        Salinity surveys of Guini and Berim polders in 1966 showed that only
a small portion of each had a damaging concentration in the surface half meter
of soil where the salts tend to concentrate; furthermore, in contrast with
cther polders, the severity of the salinity problem has increased very slowly
since the mid-1960s indicating almost certainly that some salt is being elimi-
nated, probably-by seepage from these polders. Alkali problems have developed
only in a few spots where the soils are high in organic matter and waterlogged
to the surface.
Assessment
6.        Salinity and alkali problems have heretofore received much attention
and have been considered to be the primary constraints to productivity. How-
ever, they are important constraints only if drainage is not provided. Other
problems such-as exhaustion of essential nutrients, irreversible shrinkage
of the columnar clay layer with formation of laterite-like material, and weed
and insect control may be more troublesome in the long run, and should be the
object of systematic agricultural and soil research. It is intended that
reéearch be financed by USAID under a separate project agreement with Govern-
ment and that coordination between both projects be carried out by project
mLanagement.



ANNEX 3
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricultural DeveloPment
A. General
1.        The archipelago of sand islands, wliich can be transformed into
polders, occupies some 28% of the area of Lake Chad. The archipelago
is located in the Prefecture du Lac (headquarters Bol) and in the Prefecture
du Kanem (headquarters Mao). The total populati2n of the two prefecteres is
about 250,000; population pressure averages 4/km , but is about 30/km close
to the lake.
2.        The two principal ethnic groups in the lake prefecture are the
Badumas and the Kanembous. The Badumas, originally inhabitants of the lake
islands, are fishermen by tradition; they also grow millet on the dunes during
the rainy season. In precolonial times, the Badumas controlled the islands
and the shore, the Kanembous the mainland, and the two groups were frequentlv
at war; the area close to the shore was a no-man's-land without appreciable
settlement until the French came.
3.        A number of crops are grown in the lake prefecture:  millet, wheat,
maize and onions are some of the more important. Cotton, tomatoes, beans,
peppers, okra, potatoes and sorghum are also cultivated. Millet, the basic
food crop of the region is a rainy season crop grown on the dunes. Wheat has
been cultivated in the area under traditional irrigation for at least a hundred
years; it is a luxury food that sells at a relatively high price.  Maize is
planted after millet in wet areas of the polders and along the edge of the
lake; at times, it is cultivated under irrigation.  As the Kanembous and
Badumas appear to be the only groups in Chad who eat maize to any significant
degree, the possibilities of marketing large quantities of maize are limited.
Large quantities of onions are grown in the dry season and are marketed in
N'Djamena.
4.        The traditional systems of farming are extremely simple.  Cultivation
is carried out mainly by hand; methods such as row planting, fertilizer,
improved seeds, and insecticides are virtually unknown. Irrigation, where
used, is by digging shallow wells in the dry river beds (wadis) and polders,
and extracting the water with the traditional shadoof. In recent years, some
small motorized pumps have been introduced; but most of these are not func-
tioning either through lack of maintenance or problems in obtaining fuel.
Traditional yields are low, 500-600 kg/ha for sorghum, and 1,000-1,500 kg/ha
for maize and wheat.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Cattle raising is an important part of Kanembou and Baduma life,
and milk is a preferred food. Cattle are the traditional form of savings and
investment. It is estimated that in the Prefecture du Lac there are some
350,000 head of cattle, 140,000 camels, horses and donkeys, and 650,000
small stock (goats and sheep). Marketed stock generally finds its way to
Nigeria.
B. The Project Farmers
6.        The key to the project's success would be the ability of SODELAC
to attract sufficient people to become settlers or to work as hired labor.
New farmers for polder cultivation would come from subprefectures of Bol,
N'Gouri and Mao. Assuming that farm families are given 1 ha each, the project
itself would require some 1,150 farm families, and the development of Mandi
polder an additional 1,650 farm families, or a total of 2,800 families. About
700 farn families are already living within a 5 km radius around Bol, and prob-
ably all would be prepared to participate in the project, and thus it can be
expected that the project would 'have to attract some 2,100 farm families from
Bol, N'Gouri and Mao subprefectures.
7.        The present population is estimated as follows:
Total     Farm       Number of
Numbers Population Farm Families
Within 5 km of Bol                   7,300      2,900           700
Bol subprefecture (5-60 km)         29,300    13,700          3,400
N'Gouri subprefecture (to 60 km)  25,600    11,500            2,900
Subtotal            62,200    28,100          7,000
Remaining Prefecture du Lac         33,100    13,300          3,300
Prefecture du Kanem                156,000    73,000         18,300
Total              251,300   114,400         28,600
The project is expected to involve all existing farm families within a 5 km
radius of Bol.  The villages of these people are contiguous to the polders
and they will not have to make radical changes in their social order and
traditions în order to participate. Most farmers cultivating existing polders
fartlher away L'rom Bol, in Bol and N'Gouri subprefectures, would probably wait
and hope for _he project to expand, but perhaps 10% would contemplate moving
to the project (or 630 families). The other 1,470 families would thus have
to come froin the remaining parts of Prefecture du Lac and Prefecture du Kanem.
This wou'd involve a migration of some 7% of the population over a 7 year
period.  The mobility of the population has already been evidenced by the mass
migration that occurred at the tine the first polders were constructed.  Given



ANNEX 3
Page 3
the relatively low requirements of the project compared to the total population
of the area, it appears safe to assume that the polders would be settled in a
timely manner provided that adequate incentives are offered and maintained.
8.        Farm and Family Size.  The average farm family is estimated to com-
prise about 4 persons, with 2.8 adults and about 70 mandays/month labor equi-
valent available per family.  Based on experience elsewhere in Africa, such
average-size families do not have the labor capacity to effectively handle
more than about 1 ha of double-cropped irrigation land. Therefore, under the
project the minimum unit would be 1 ha/family with a flexible upper limit of
up to 2 ha depending on family labor availability. IDA's approval would be
requested if the project management intends to allocate more than 2 ha per
family of 4 adults.
9.        Experience indicates that most participating farmers would, in addi-
tion to their 1 ha of polder, cultivate about 1.3 ha of rainfed millet and
a emall polder garden of 0.05-0.15 ha. The latter would be for crops such as
vegetables and maize, and these gardens would be developed on spare land in
the polders, e.g., odd corners.
C. Crops
Crop Research Results
10.       Since 1970, SODELAC has carried out cropping experiments and trials
at the Matafo Agricultural Research Station. The aim is to determine optimum
cultural methods and potential yields of various varieties of cereals and
cotton. Although these trials suffered from the general lowering of the lake
water level, and lack of funds, they have demonstrated for the crops tested
an extremely good potential under soils and conditions similar to those of
Matafo.  Yields obtained by farmers in 1973 on 30 ha of properly irrigated
land averaged 3,500 kg/ha for cotton and 3,000 kg/ha for wheat. The initial
research effort has been devoted mainly to cotton and winter wheat because
these two crops will provide the basis for the polders cropping system. In
addition, a few trials have been carried out on maize; and some interesting
livestock fattening trials have been undertaken using cottonseed and pennisetum.
Cotton
11.       Experimental results indicate significant yield differences between
G. hirsutum and G. barbadense varieties. The results of the 1972 trials in-
dicate average yields of 4,500 kg/ha for G. hirsutum varieties and 2,300 kg/ha
for G. barbadense varieties. The U.S. Coker 310/312/417 varieties consistently
gave high yields. Ston 213 yielded well as did Ston okra-leaf varieties.
Average yields during 1973 were 4,000 kg/ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
An analysis by IRCT for 1972 variety trials gave the following results:
Pressly
Variety and       Production    %        Length   UR  Finess   Resistance
Origin             kg/ha      Fiber    2.5%    %   Micro        Index      1,000 PSI
Chad HG9            3,795        36.8    30.2  48.0  4.30          8.20         88.6
USA - Coker 310    4,848         3,.8    30.1  48.2  4.45          8.26         89.2
USA - Coker 417    4,706         3,.8    30.4  48.4  4.20          7.70         83.2
USA - Acala SJl    4.342         37.1    29.6  47.6  3.65         10.85        117.2
USA - Ston 213      4,904        38.4    29.1  47.8  4.50          8.42         90.9
BC6 - Stan 7A       4,050        36.8    29.5  47.4  3.43          7.95         85.8
okra
On the basis of total performance, and particularly with regard to excellent
quality length, the Coker varieties are favored. During the initial phase of
the project, Coker 417 is likely to be the variety used. Also, because of thè
dense vegetative growth of cotton at Bol, the less dense okra-leaf varieties
would be tested under field conditions.
12.       Time of cotton planting is very important in order that the crop is
renewed in time to ensure that wheat is planted at the optimum time in November.
Also, trials indicate that cotton planted before mid-May significantly outyields
later planted crops.
13.       Planting densities do not appear to show significant differences.
It is recommended that the planting density be 55,000 - 65,000 plants/ha --
on a basis of one plant per hole.
14.       To date, cotton varieties have shown no significant response to
fertilizer. Indications are that yields could be maintained for 5 - 10 years
without fertilizer, but without continuous cultivation trials no definite
recommendation can be made at this tire.
15.       Due to the present low incidence of pests at Bol, experiments on
insect control have not been carried out. However, since pests would undoubt-
edly build up as the project expands, precautionary measures would be taken.
Spraying would commence at six weeks after planting and continue at 10-day
:intervals for up to 10 sprays, depending on the results of pest scouting.
The main pest is currently Pink bollworm (Platyedra gossy Piolla).
16.       Irrigation trials on cotton indicate that 750  3 is required for
preirrigation, f3llowed by up to *10 irrigations of 750 m each at 7 - 10 day
intervals (800 m total). Under Bol conditions, the polder water table fluc-
tuates about 2 m, and this would make it possible to reduce the number of
irrigations when the water table is higher, assuming that cotton is planted
early enough for the cotton roots to grow quickly down to the water table;
this makes it possible that the number of irrigations for cotton be reduced
to about six.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Wheat
17.       According to varietal trials, the Mexican variety Penjamo 62 out-
yields most other wheats tested at the Matafo station (4,000 kg/ha). Dambata,
another Mexican variety, has good potential. Yields are very sensitive to
time of planting. Trials indicate that planting is best carried out during
the first two weeks of November, and should on no account be delayed beyond
November 21; thereafter, yields decline at a significant rate of 500 kg/ha
per week.
18.       Other trials involving fertilizer, planting density and irrigation
show no response to phosphate; 90 kg of P20 /ha gave no significant response;
however, 100 kg of urea and 200 kg of triplé superphosphate raised yields by
900 kg/ha; and, at present day food and fertilizer prices, this is economic.
Trials did not indicate any significant yield differences due to planting
densities. The best results were obtaieed at 75 and 100 kg of seed per hec-
tare. Irrigation trials indicate 750 m of preirrigation, and thereafter
at 7 - 30 day frequency, gave the best response; a total delivery of about
6,600 m is required.
Maize
19.       M4aize research, limited so far, has been directed towards time of
planting and response to fertilizer. Results to date indicate optimum plant-
ing dates as mid-June, and that N and P20 applications do not show marked
yield improvements. Average yields are aà 2,500 kg/ha. Trials to test
possible deficiencies in sulphur, magnesium and zinc should be undertaken.
Given the climatic conditions at Bol, yields of over 6,000 kg/ha should be
obtainable.
Crop Rotations
20.       Studies have not been undertaken on crop rotations.  During the
first 5 years of the project, a cotton/wheat rotation can be followed with-
out significant reduction in yields. However, for the long term, a rotation
must be found that would keep the soil in reasonable equilibrium. If signifi-
cant improvement in maize yields can be achieved, cotton could be replaced
by maize. Eventually, it may be necessary to have a complete fallow, or a
leguminous fodder crop.
D.  Cultural Recommendations
21.       Several recommendations for wheat and cotton can be made in the
light of research results to date: These recommendations will have to be
amended annually, however, as new research, technical and economic data
influence production.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Cotton
Time of planting                April 20 - May 15.
Harvesting completed            September 21 - October 31.
Planting density                50,000 - 60,000 plants/ha
(1 plant per hole).
Seed                            25 kg/ha acid delinted.
Fertilizer                      nil.
Spraying                        ULV /1 3 1/ha minimum 6 sprays at 10 day
intervals.  First spraying 40 days after
planting.         3
Irrigation                      preirri§ation 750 m  up to 10 irrigations 3
750 m  each at 10 day intervals (8,000 m
total).
Yield                           2,500 kg/ha.
Wheat
Time of planting                November 1 - November 21.
Time of harvesting              3rd week of February to end of March.
Seed                            80 kg/ha.
Fertilizer                      45 kg P O5 /ha.
45 kg Nîha.           3
Irrigation                      1 preir5igation 750 m  min. 8 irrigations
750 m  per irrigat on at 7 - 10 day
intervals (6,600 m  total).
Yield                           2,500 kg/ha.
/1   Ultra-low-volume spraying (ULV) is a technique used more frequently in
recent years. At Bol, spraying would have to be carried out very early
in the morning or in the late afternoon when wind speeds are less than
6 m/s and when it is cool enough to prevent immediate evaporation of
the minute spray droplets. If the evaporation rate is too high, ULV will
have to be replaced by conventional high-volume spraying techniques.
E. Crop Production System
22.       To maximize the benefi.s to the local farming community, and to
minimize the cost of farming, the principle has been retained that the project
polders would be settled by individual farmers, each cultivating 1 ha, assuming
2.8 adults in the farm family.  'me large-scale plantation approach was re-
jected, as it would require scarce management talents and costly mechanization,
and would in any event have a lesser impact on the local farming community.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
23.       The proposed irrigation program including the development of Mamdi
polder assumes that 2,800 farmers would acquire land over the period 1976-83.
Problems involving recruitment of farmers and settlement could slow down the
development rate. Furthermore, there are bound to be technical and pedolo-
gical limitations in the first years of cultivation. To ease the way for
settlement it is proposed to form a Commercial Agricultural Development
Section under the Project Unit; this Commercial Section would be responsible
for the first year of production in any given area; thereafter, the area
would be settled. This Commercial Section would act as a land development
agency, and would be responsible for the first year of operations on all
newly developed land (about 400 ha/annum), and for the basic cultivations
during the following year, which would be the first year of settlement. In
the latter case, the Commercial Section would clear, disc, and plant a cotton
and a wheat crop, thus giving the new settler a better chance to settle down
and to learn the new techniques that will be demanded of him.
24.       Selection of settlers and land allocation would be done by the
Prefecture du Lac administration in concert with the project. The applicants
would be selected on the following criteria: (a) number of people in the
family; (b) how much time they spend on agriculture; and (c) ownership of
bullocks. At first only those farmers whose sole activity is agriculture
would be considered. Those farmers already living along Guini and Berim
polders and cultivating on the polders would be given priority for land
allocation.
25.       Legal ownership of the polders is vested in the Republic of Chad
(decree of August 1, 1967). A new ordinance would be required to:
(a) confirm the national and public character of the polders;
(b) mandate SODELAC as lessor of the improved land; and
(c) approve the rental procedures to be used for the settlers.
Plots would be rented to settlers for a three year period. Repossession
would occur if farmers did not comply with the terms of their lease, which
would stipulate their financial and general obligations.  Among these, the
settlers would agree to:
(a) cultivate their plots in a continuous, total and rational
manner;
(b) follow extension agents' advice;
(c) comply with the irrigation system, in particular the rotation
of water application;
(d)  cultivate with their own family labor; and
(e)  pay all financial charges.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
A renewable three year lease wouAd give holders a satisfactory security of
tenure, and would permit the project to make changes necessary in the general
interest, i.e., change of plot slze or exchange of plots. Such flexibility
is essential in the early years of the project. The three year period could
be lengthened when both management and settlers had ironed their teething
troubles inevitable in a project of this type.
The Smallholder
26.       After his first year of operation, the smallholder would receive no
mechanical assistance. He would divide his year into a 5-6 month wheat season
and a 6-7 month cotton season. His peak labor requirements would be in the
period mid-September to mid-November - a time when he harvests his cotton,
and cultivates and plants the same land to wheat.  He would use limited amounts
of fertilizer on his wheat and none at all on his cotton. He would use no
chemical herbicides, but would protect his cotton with ULV equipment using
a triple mix insecticide of DDT, endrine and endosulphan. He would irrigate
his land by furrow irrigation techniques and would harvest both his cotton
and wheat by hand. He would be able to use the project wheat thrashers if
he so desired. The project would assist him by providing credit for the
purchase of seeds and other seasonal inputs. It would encourage him to invest
in ox drawn equipment and would provide him credit to do so. Most importantly,
the project would provide him with effective extension advice. An average
farm budget is at Table 2, and estimated farm labor requirements at Table 3.
27.       There would be two recruitment periods for settlers, with the
latest dates of occupancy being October 31 and March 31 respectively. The
incoming settlers would be directed to pre-located village sites that would
consist of no more than a project provided well. The settlers would be ex-
pected to find their own way to the scheme using local camels and donkeys for
transporting their very limited household effects. Once on site the settlers
vould construct the typical millet stalk house - later to be replaced by mud.
Although the settler would not have to plough or plant during his first year
of occupancy, thus enabling him to set up his home, he would have to be on
site early enough to at least understand and follow the two basic cultural
operations, cotton and wheat. The project would provide each settler with
500 kg of grain (in loan form to be repaid over 2 years) to enable him to
survive the first half year of occupancy prior to his harvesting of his own
f'ood crops, i.e. a Marci settler would in September harvest millet grown on
the dunes and maize grown in his allocated polder garden. The October settler
wculd in February harvest wheat from his main polder lot and possibly maize
f'rom his polder garden.
Extension Service
28.       Once settled the settler would come under the control of the exten-
sion staff who would assess his assets, oxen, ploughs, tools, etc. and advise
him of additional needs and equipment.  He would be expected to attend very
short (3-4 days) training courses to orientate him to the new techniques and



ANNEX 3
Page 9
crops that he would encounter. Thereafter, his training would be given mainly
in the field on his own holding. The extension staff would be divided into
three sections: 1 at Guini and 2 at Berim. Each section would be located at a
service center controlled by a Section Officer. The Section Officer would be
assisted by farm instructors at a rate of 1 to 30 farmers in the first year of
farmer settlement reducing to 1 to 100 farmers from the 3rd year onwards.  The
Section Officer and farm instructors would be responsible for the extension
needs of the farmer, for distribution of credit in kind, for the collection
of credit repayment and for the initial assembly of marketable crops. A Senior
Technical Officer would have overall responsibility for operating and controll-
ing the extension service. Training of the extension agents would be a joint
responsibility of the extension and research staff and would be conducted at
the Matafo Research Station.
Service Centers
29.       The three Service Centers would be the key to farmer servicing.
Each center would comprise a 500 m3 warehouse for the storage of fertilizers,
insecticides and farm equipment. Within the store would be incorporated a
small office for Service Center staff. The Center would be located on a 1 ha
site and would be surrounded by security fence. Initially one 10 x 30 m plinth
would be constructed for the storage of wheat. The Section Officer would live
in the vicinity of the store. The farm instructors would live in the villages.
The Service Centers would act as centers of initial assembly prior to SODELAC
marketing the crop.
SODELAC Commercial Unit
30.       This Unit would comprise sufficient staff and equipment to efficiently
handle the rather difficult and sometimes unforeseen problems of the first year
of land development. The Unit would be mechanized and would rely on a constant
labor force supplemented at the time of the cotton harvest, which would be
picked by hand, by casual labor - mainly from Mao prefecture. The Commercial
Unit would also provide the first year ploughing and planting services to new
farmers, and would be responsible for storage of farm inputs and the storage
of cotton and grains until shipped out of the. project area. Staffing and
equipment of the Commercial Unit are at Annex 7. Upon project completion,
the remaining usable life for the Commercial Unit equipment would be about
50%, and this equipment would be used for the agricultural development of
Mamdi polder or any other polder.
31.       For the sake of simplicity, it is assumed for the first phase of
the project that all yields -- smallholder and Commercial Unit -- would be the
same. Cotton research yields are from 4,000-4,500 kg/ha. The farmer trial
in 1972 resulted in an average yield of 3,500 kg/ha from 30 ha. Project yields
are estimated at 55-60% of research results and are placed at 2,500 kg/lia for
cotton and 2,500 kg/ha for wheat. Total annual project generated production
for wheat and cotton is at Table 1.



AMi'EX 3
Page 10
Cotton Seed
Maximum requirement:  100 tons cotton seed (1983)
Seed       Seed
Sown    Seed cotton  produ Cd   Required   For
State   Location            Area h                     aield kgha   tons  tons  stage
A   IRCT breeder nucleus      0.10        4500       0.27         0.12      B
B   SODELAC - Matafo          2.0         4000       4.80         2.25      C
C   SODELAC - Commercial
Unit          75.0         2500      L12.50  /    80.70      D
D   Project Area           2520.0         2500    3780.0   /    80.70       D
Wheat Seed                                 Tons
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Seed sown         j     12     42      74     1C6    138    170    202    215    215
New seed required       12     30      32      44     62      64     76      75     7,2
Area for seed
production _V  (ha)    20     21      29      41      43     51     50      50     50
]3reeders' seed 5/(tons) 1.6    1.'7   2.3      3.3    3.4    4.1    4.0    4.0    4.o
Matafo breeders'
plot 6/ (ha)            1.1    1.5    2.2      2.3    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7
S ummnary
Matafo breeders plot
rounded (ha)            2      2       3       3       3      3      3       3      3
Coommercial Unit
rounded (ha)           20     30      30      50      50     60     60      60     60
Thus, for the seed multiplication of cotton and wheat, Matafo would require a
maximum of 5 ha for production of breeders'  seed, leaving 15 ha for other
research purposes. The CommerciaL Unit would requLire 135 ha for seed multi-
plication purposes, leaving 265 ha for straight ccnmmercial wheat and cotton
production.
Ll  Useable seed outturn 6qY of seed cotton
2/ Surplus available for extended scheme or for 'ivestock feed
3/ Based on replacement seed every third year
4/ Based on 2,500 kg/ha, of which 1,500 kg/ha is screened for seed.
SODELAC Commercial Unit
'/  At 80 kg/ha
6/ At 1,500 kg/ha useable screened seed



ANNEX 3
CEAD                                                  T-able 1
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricultural Development
Crvp Production
1977       1978       1979      1980       1981     1982       1983
Catton   Area (Ha)
Settlers   lst year                            -         200       200        250       300       200          -
2nd year and after                  -         -         200       400        650      950       1150
Experimental Farm                             20          20         20        20         20       20         20
Project Unit                                   -          50        250       400        200        -          -
Total Cotton Area                 20         270        670      1070       1170     1170       1170
Wheat   Area (Ha)
Settlers   lst year                            -         300       200        250       400         -          -
2nd year and after                  -                   300       500        750     1150       1150
Experimental Farm                             20          20         20        20         20       20         20
Project Unit                                  30         200       400        400          -                   -
Total Wheat Area                  50         520        920      1170       1170     1170       1170
Cotton   Produiction (tons) 1/
Settlers                                       -         500      1000       1625       2375     2875       2875
Experimental Farm                             90          90         90        90         90       90         90
Project Unit                                   -         125       625       1000        500         -         _
Total Seed Cotton Production      90         715       1715      2715       2965      2965      2965
Wheat   Production (tons) 2/
Settlers                                      -          750      1250      1875        2875     2875       2875
Experimental Farm                             80          80         80       80          80       80         80
Project Unit                                  75         500      1000      1000           -        -          -
Total Wheat Production            155       1330       2330     2955        2955      2955      2955
Farmers Wbeat Consumption  3/                   -         (200)      (250)    (375)       (575)    (575)      (575)
Total Net Wheat Sales             155        1130      2080      2580        2380     2380       2380
1/  Seed cotton yields  Experimental Farm    4500 Kg/Ha
Settlers              2500 Kg/Ha
Project Unit          2500 Kg Ha
2/  Wheat yields  Experimental Farm   4000 Kg/Ha
Settlers             2500 Kg/Ha
Project Unit         2500 Kg/Ha
3/ 500 Kg/Ha



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricultural Development
Settlement Farmer Gross Income 1/
*--------------- Without Project ....................         .................... Under Project....................
Price        Area           Yield         Value            Price         Area           Yield            Value
Dune Cultivation   - Millet                   CFAF25/Kg     1.3  Ha        600 Kg/Ha      19,500         CFAF25/Kg       1.3 Ha         600 Kg/Ha       19,500
Polder Cultivation - Wheat                    CFAF50/Kg     0.075        1,500 Kg/Ha       5,600         CFAF5O./Kg      1.0 Ha      2,500 Kg/Ha       125,000
- Maize                   CFAF20/Kg     0.075         1,500 Kg/Ha      2,300          CFAF20/Kg       -
- Seed Cotton             CFAF53/Kg       -                                -          CFAF53/Kg       1.0 Ha      2.500 Kg/Ha       132,500
Sub-Total                                                                            27,400                                                       277,000
Livestock Production                                                                       5.500                                                         5,500
Total Production Income 1/                                                           32,900                                                       282,500
1/ Does not include Polder Gardens, the production of which would be substantial but is not quantifiable at this time
j-. lk



CR8,D
LARE CHAD POLDERS PROJICT
Agic-lts1ral LDnelnpeerst
Ssttlseeat FPren-  Budget nd Cash Flu.
(CIAF '000)
B ef or         -s- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- Under Pro j ect - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_
P,o,ect          Seat I           Yeat 2            Yean 3      Yeat 4             YSea  5         Yeat 6          Yeat 7           Av     Seage
predeotiot  interne                             32,900          282,500           282,500          282,500    282,500             282,500         282,500          282,500          '8',500
Credit rece-ivd
Fater's  en estnent                                            24,400            35,000             -          7,400               -               -             42,400            15,700
F=reer's seseneal reqaireLnet6                  -              63.500            67 900           67.900      67.900                 00          62.900          67.900            67.300
TStai Iefleun                                         32,900          370,400           385,400          350,400    357,800             350,400         350,400         392,800           365,500
........_..._ .  .._....     w =={sS =aS=St= = =z== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = == = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
II.   Outfleows
Fat-ers investment
GCaie fot  fend  1/                             -              17,000            17,000            17,000      17,000            17,000          i7,000           17,000           17,000
Spraye,400                                                                         -                           7,400                                               7,400            3,200
Coltivaten & aîtatkeehnts  2/                   -                -                9,500              -                    -           _                            9,500            2,800
Seader 2/                                                         .               6,400              .                             -               -              6,400             1,ô00
Crst 3/                                         -                 -               8,500              -           -                                 -               8,500            2,h00
C-s  2/                                         ,                                10.600                    -                       -               -             10,600             3.100
Toara  P          -retts In teetteert                             24,400           52,000            17,000      24,400            17,000           17,000          59,400           30.300
Fa-rneet OpetatieR Casts
Perkhase of -ttee eeede  4'                     -               1,900             1,900            1,900       1,900              1,900           1,900           1,900             1,900
Purchase of w theat sede  0/                    -               5,200             5,200            5,200       5,200              5,200           5,200           5,200             5,200
M!erhaaleaî 1usd preparation c-tton  6/         -                2,500             -                 -           -                 _                                -                 300
Maehaeie 1 pla-ting enttrn 1/                   -                1,300             -                                -             -                 -                                 200
tchmnital îaad prepara jtion  ehu  e/           -               4,500              -                             --                                -                _                 bO
Mlethaeital planting  huA-t 9'                  -                1,300             -                 -           _                                 _                                  70)
Pest control  oteton 10/                        -              35,000            35,000           35 000      35,000             35,000          35,000          35,000            35,000
Ferrtili-r for uhe-t 11/                        -                -               14,000           14,000      14,000             14,000          14,000           14,000           14,000
Th,ashing uheet 12/                             -              12,000            12,000           12,000      12,000             12,000          12,000           12,000           12,000
Paeeaeg nareriEain - sasaht 13/                 -               4     900                          4,900       4,90               4,9             4,900                             4,900
Parking mareCiaîe - cttre                       -               5.800             5 800             . 800      0.800              5.S00           5.800           5.800             5.800
Tatri a1eeee  Opeartiag Caste                     -               63,600           68,000            68,000      68,000            68,000           68,000          65,000           69,300
Debt Sen-ira ne C-edit Retei-sd
e  ienestner.  15/                      -               6,500            15,700            10,700      17,800            17,800          11,200           11,200           13,250
Fatsrrne eesenaî .  eq.i.eent1s 15!             -               6.400             6.800            6.800       6.800              6.800           0,800           6,B0O            b07n
Tetai Dehb  Sennite                               -               12.900           22.500            22.500      24,600            24.600          18.000           18 ,001          L0,400
Total Oatfle-s ptite te Warte Charge                     -             100,900           142,500          107,500    117,000             109,600         l03,000          145,400          120,000
Net Cash Rira. prier t  Wataer Changes                 32,900          269,500           242,900          242,900    240,800             240,800         247,400          247,400          245,500
Wat- Charge   b'                                         -             130 070           130n non 100                                     L00 1308000  130,00 1C300       130 50           lin 050
et  .ash Flo-                                          32,900          139,500           112,900          112,900    110,8û0             110,800         117,400         117,400           I15,00
Set-dave tenkué - Irrlgerine                               93              364               364              364          364               364             364              364              364
`lillet Calotte-i-n                   '25                25               25                25          25                25               25              25                25
eT-al Mer-Jane worked                                     118               389              389               389         389               389             389              389              389
Set Cash Flot pan Man-day  -erked (CFAF)                  279              359               290               290         285               285              302             302               207
1/  500 kghsettle.                                            10/   8 sprays @ 3 1/spray t CFAF 1,500/1,
2'  shaned heteece 3 Ca -ers.                                        inclading battery tant et sprayer,
3/  ahse-d between 5 tannera.                                  ,     45 kg N + 45 kg P205.
4!  25 kg/ha a CFAF 53/kg.                                    12/   using  taatirie.y rsbiJee 0.3 hanr/ha
S/  80 kg/ha @ CFAF 53/kg                                     13/   500 kg ate e-esaed by the faruet
6/  S.houns <i CFA8  1,300/h-or                               14/   napaid  -en    S yea-s @ 1071 inserest -te
7/  1 hanr *0 CFAF 1,300/huer.                                15/   10/ / yea.
8/  3, hkare  d CFAF 1,300/hour,                              16/   CFAF 74,000/ha (OM) ard CFAF 16,000/ha (tapitai).
8/  I  hou  a CFAF 1,300/hun.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHAD
LÂKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Agricult.ral Development
Labor Requirements - Man-days
Jan   Feb   March   April   May   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
1 ha Cotton
Land Preparation                       -      -       -        12       -       -       -      -       -       -     -      -        12
Cultivating                            -      -        -        2       2       -       -      -       -      -      -      -         4
Bundinig                               -      -        -        -       3       -       -      -        -      -      -      -        3
Preirrigation                          -      -       -         -       2       -       -      -       -      -      -      -         2
Planting                               -      -       -         -       2       -       -      -       -      -      -      -         2
Thinning                                       -                -       7           -       -      -       -      -      -            7
Weeding                                 -      -       -        -       8       8        8      -       -      -      -      -       24
Insect Control                         -      -       -         -       1       2       1      1       -      -      -      -         5
Irrigation                             -                                6       6       6      6       -      -      -      -       24
Harvesting                             -      --                                        -    20       60    40       -      -      120
Renoval of Roots                       -      -       -         -       -       -       -      -       -    17       -      -        17
220
1 ha Wheat
Land Preparation                       -      -       -         -       -       -       -      -       -      -    20.    -         20
Bunding                                -      -       -         -       -       -       -      -       -      -      6      -         6
Preirrigation                          -      -        -        -       -       -       -      -        -     -      3      -         3
Planting                               -      -       -         -       -       -       -      -       -      -      d      -         8
Weeding                               20      -        -        -       -       _       _      _        _      _      -    20        40
Irrigation                             9      6       -         -       -       -       -      -       -      -      3      9        27
Harvesting                             -      -      12         -       -       -       -      -       -      -      -      -        12
Thrashing                              -      -        3                                                             -      -
119
Mi'let                                    -      -       -        -       -       7        4     h        5      5      -      -       25
Total                                   29       6      15       1h      31      23      19    31       65    62    40    29          364
Hypothetical Total                      70    70        70       70      70      70      70    70        70    70    70    70         840
Balance for Polder Garden
Marke ting etc.                        41     64       55       56      39      47      51      39       5      8    30    41        476



ANNEX 4
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Societe de Developpement du Lac
(SODELAC)
Statutes
1.        Societe de Developpement du Lac (SODELAC) was created in August 1967
--Ordonnance 22--to carry out projects in the "Prefecture du Lac"; it took
over services already provided to farmers by another Government agency, the
Semable, which was then discontinued. SODELAC has share capital of CFAF 180
million, 95% owned by the Government. Its statutes give it broad powers to
conceive programs in the spheres of rural, industrial or social development,
and to provide extension, credit and marketing services to farmers. The
President is appointed by the President of the Republic. SODELAC is under
the general supervision of the Minister for "Amenagement du Territoire".
Although basically SODELAC has a high degree of autonomy, Government has
control over SODELAC's operations through its "Commissaire du Gouvernement"
and "Controlleur du Gouvernement". These officials may veto proposed actions
by SODELAC, but the veto expires if within a fixed period, it is not upheld
by the Minister. SODELAC has all thé autonomy necessary to carry out its
statutory functions.
Activities
2.        SODELAC presently carries out three types of activities:
(a) Irrigated Development: providing extension, credit and
marketing services to those 19,000 farm families,
practice traditional shadoof irrigation in polders along
the lake shore. In the recent period of rainfall deficits
and low lake-water levels, some farmers have abandoned
these activities as water tables fell too low to permit
lifting water with traditional equipment. The area culti-
vated with wheat is estimated to have varied as follows:
3,000 ha in 1970/71, 2,500 ha in 1971/72, 3,500 in 1972/73,
and 2,600 ha in 1973/74. The resulting wheat crop marketed
by SODELAC decreased from 1,300 tons in 1970/71 to 150 tons
in 1973/74, as most wheat was consumed locally. Since 1970,
SODELAC has also supervised construction of the irrigation
water intake in Guini polder, operation of the Matafo
Agricultural Research Station, and execution of the feasi-
bility study for the project appraised in the report.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) Rainfed Development: very limited activities are centered
around N'Gouri from whicLh SODELAC markets small quantities
of gum arabic grown on the dunes (6 tons in 1972/73 and 4
tons in 1973/74).
(c)  Other:  various extraneous activities, such as use of cor-
poration vehicles for general transportation purposes,
marketing of dry fish, management of Bol Restaurant and
Lodge, construction of refrigerated rooms at N'Djamena
Airport for storage of potatoes grown in the polders, and
the Air-Tchad Agency at Bol. These activities have re-
sulted in a dispersion of SODELAC's management efforts,
and have contributed to its financial losses.
Organization
3.        Headquarters are at N'Djamena, where the President of the Corporation
resides together with two expatriate technical assistants and supporting office
staff. Twenty-one agricultural agents from the Civil Service are posted to
the two field branches of Bol and N'Gouri, and 22 additional agents are employed
under contract. Three expatriate technical assistants are employed at Bol
(two at the Mlatafo Research Station, and one at the Corporation's workshop).
Given its very limited activities SODELAC is overstaffed. Headquarters would
be better situated at Bol where SODELAC's activities are concentrated.
Overall Financial Position
4.        SODELAC's income statements (Table 1) as of June 30, 1973, show
cumulative losses of about CFAF 22:3 million and Government subsidies of
CFAF 142 million. Losses would have been even greater if SODELAC's accounts
included the salaries of seconded civil servants and expatriate staff. In
order to reduce those losses, a number of steps should be taken:
(a) SODELAC should introduce a cost-accounting system that
would discriminate between those activities which should
be conducted with a profit motive -- i.e., marketing,
and distribution of credit -- and those which are in
fact more of a social nature, i.e., provision of
extension services to farmers.
(b) SODELAC should eliminate all commercial activities which
are not profitable, i.e., marketing of dry fish and gum
arabic, and of the wheat grown far from the collection
centers of Bol and N'Gouri and requiring excessive
transport costs. SODELAC should also trim its payroll
and move its headquarters to Bol.



AN'4EX 4
Page 3
(c)  Government should subsidize those activities which are
not commercial in nature.  An annual subeidy of CFAF
20-30 million may be sufficient once cost-saving measures
have been introduced. This subsidy woulc be in addition
to Governnent costs in paying the salaries of civil
servant and expatriate personnel secondec to SODELAC.
Present Financial Position
5.        At present, SODELAC is in a state of virtual bankruptcy, as it is
not able to pay its suppliers. In October 1974, it owed some CFAF 20 million
in past due bills to private suppliers.  This insoivency could be removed by
Government paying in its outstanding capital subscription of CFAF 20 million.
(Government subscribed CFAF 171 million in share capital and paid CFAF 151
million), and by Government paying to SODELAC the subsidy of CFAF 30 million
that was budgeted for payment to SODELAC in 1973/7z.



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Société de Développement du Lac
it Junce 30                                ^ (SODELÂC)
(t:hF 'OCF )                             Incomre Statements
196'/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74
estimate
Sale of produce                         -       12,584    11,906    20,126        6,156    10,293    27,4ëb
staff salaries                       5,675    13,714    14,91     15,076    17,268    15,926    15,280
taxes                                  787     1,083        851        714       941      1,944      2,810
cost of goods                        8,964    19,740    24,478    22,885    35,777    41,059    34,850
transportation                       8,574     7,362      6,405      1,692     3,349      2,940      1,590
adrninistr-tion                        688     1,118      2,111      2,399     3,u24      2,551      2,671
finance charges                        369        510       183         17        107       959        650
25,057    43,527    48,944    42,783   -61,266    65, 409    57,850
Operating Losses                     (25,057)  (30,943)  (37,038)  (22,657)  (55,080)  (55,116)  (30,362)
K3.X&Rioti nal Ioss0s or Profits         (4o)   (2,503)    9,793    (2,423)        (672)   (1,512)   (1,856)
Total Losses                         (25,097)  (33,446)  (27,245)  (25,080)  (55,752)  (56,628)  (32,218)
Cumulated Iosses                     (25,097)  (58,543)  (85,788) (110,868) (166,620) (223,248) (255,466)
Government Subsidy                    10,000    20,000    42,000    31,000    31,000        7,749
Cumulative Subsidy                    10,000    30,000    72,000   103,000   134,000   141,749
(D~



ANNEX 5
Page l
CRAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Irrigation Works
I.   General
1.1       The principle adopted for the project is gravity irrigation from the
lake and collective drainage. This choice was made after consideration of
other alternatives, i.e.:
(a)  improvement of traditional irrigation through partial
mechanization of the shadoof method;
(b)  stabilization of the water table and subirrigation as
proposed by the consultants, SOGETHA, in their 1964
feasibility study; and
(c)  pumping from the water table and collective drainage
as studied by USAID in 1974.
These other alternatives were rejected for two main reasons:
(a)  improvement of traditional irrigation and subirrigation
does not solve the problem of progressive salinization of
the polders but, on the contrary, increases it; and
(b)  the USAID scheme has not been sufficiently tested.
1.2       Gravity irrigation was proposed by SCET, consultants, who had
designed, supervised, and operated such a system already built on Guini
polder.  In this system, the irrigation water comes from the lake and flows
by gravity into an irrigation system extending to all parts of the polder.
The underground water table is maintained below 1.2 m from the surface through
continuous draining. The drainage system is collective, with the drained
water being pumped out of the polders into the lake far from the polder water
intakes. This method provides complete water control and separation of
irrigation and drainage waters. As its main advantage, the method does the
least amount of damage to the soils; the water has the lowest possible
salinity content; there is continuous leaching of the salt brought by the
irrigation water, and capillary rise is reduced. Other advantages include:
elimination of pumping for irrigation, complete water control, and suitability
for large-scale development of the polder. The disadvantages are its rela-
tively high investment cost and it is necessary to have expert management
to operate the scheme.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
11.3      All polders have essentïally the same physical characteristics (same
elevation at the bottom, and the same narrow form with a width averaging about
().8 km), and as gravity irrigation is not possible over a distance of more
than 5 km, the polders are divided into areas of some 400 ha each (5 km x
0.8 km), all equipped with a water intake and an independent irrigation
network.
1.4       Water intakes.  The intakes from the lake are located where dikes
are at their narrowest. The intakes are composed of concrete box culverts
etquipped with a downstream constant level gate and bulkheads. The intakes
can be shut if necessary. The intakes are built so that the water level is
1.1 m above the polder bottom at the intake to allow gravity flow, but the
box culverts are low enough to make pumping possible if the lake water level
f'alls below the level at which gravity irrigation is no longer possible.
Capacity of water intakes would be 2.5 1/s/ha (Annex 6). The irrigation
network includes concrete-lined primary canals, polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
secondary pipes and field outlets.
1.5       Primary canals.  Primary canals would be constructed along one side
of the polder in a concrete-lined rectangular section. Concrete-lining would
be about 10 cm thick. The slope in the canals is small (about 5 cm/km). The
canals would deliver a peak flow of 2.5 1/s/ha. The water level in the
primaries would be regulated by the downstream constant level gate and
cannot vary more than 0.3 m as greater variations would result in excessive
flow in the PVC pipes.
1.6       PVC pipes.  The secondary distribution system would be PVC pipes.
The choice of PVC pipes meets the constraints of impermeability and flexibi-
lity. As polder soils are very permeable (Annex 2), the secondary distribu-
tion system must be made with impervious materials. Other alternatives to
PVC pipes would be concrete-lined or plastic-lined earth ditches. Concrete-
lining has been eliminated as experience on Guini polder has shown that
concrete-lined secondaries break up when polder soils settle when soils are
alternatively wet and dry. Plastic lining would not last long given the harsh
cLimatic conditions prevailing in the polders. PVC pipes also eliminate the
need for primaries on both sides of the polders as PVC pipes would cross to
the other side of the polders below the collector drains, and the PVC pipe
alternative is therefore cheaper. PVC pipes would be laid down at a depth
varying between 0.8 m and 1.2 m, and water pressure in the pipes would be low.
Piipes would be connected to the primaries through communication pits.
1.7       Field outlets.  Outlets would be of iron and equipped with a gate
valve. Each outlet (capacity 30 1/s) would irrigate 6 ha, and there would
be two outlets per "quartier hydraulique" (Annex 6).
1.8       Drainage collectors are open ditches with slopes 1:1 at an average
depth of 1.8 m. They would follow the polders lowest points, usually running
lengthwise along the center of the polders. Secondary drains do not appear



ANNEX 5
Page 3
to be necessary given the soils permeability, but drain connections into the
primaries will be built to handle secondary dràins, if these are required later
on.  Earth removed to dig the collectors would be used to make 6 m wide ser-
vice roads along the collectors. Collectors would be designed to maintain
the water table below 1.2 m from the surface and at a capacity of 1.25 l/s/ha.
1.9       Drainage pumping station.  The pumping station would dispose of
drained water outside of the polder. It would be located at the lowest point
in the polder. The location of the station in Berim polder is such that
drained water will be rejected into Mamdi.  When Mamdi is developed, a common
station for Berim and Mamdi would be built. The capacity of the pumping
station is the same as for the drainage collectors (1.25 l/s/ha). Equipment
and machinery at the station include an intake, an outlet, and diesel pumps.
Civil works include a concrete frame covered with asbestos-cement roofing.
1.10      Roads.  The project includes access roads to link the polders to Bol
and service roads inside the polders.  The latter are subdivided into mann
and secondary roads. The main roads are built along the collectors, the
secondary roads along the PVC pipes.
1.11      Land levelling.  Polder bottoms are very flat, but some land level-
ling will still be required on some 20% of the area.
II. Guini Polder
2.1       Guini polder is located about 3 km north of Bol, its gross area is
520 ha and its net area 370 ha. The polder has a narrow shape (length: 6 km
and width: 0.9 km). The polder was isolated from the lake in 1951 by con-
struction of one dike, and was dried naturally. Development works started
in 1969, but the full polder development was not completed for lack of
financing.
2.2       Existing works include:
(a)  the water intake in the dike built in 1951.  Its capacity
is slightly less than that proposed for Berim intakes
(2 1/s/ha versus 2.5 1/s/ha) and its flow is therefore
0.75 m3/s (2 x 370 ha). Its height will allow gravity
irrigation nine years in ten only. Berim intakes will
be built lower so that gravity irrigation is possible
96 years out of a hunered (Annex 6). A pump will be
installed at the intake to irrigate by pumping when
gravity irrigation is not possible. It is more econo-
mical to pump than to build a new and lower intake;



AÂNNEX 5
Page 4
(b)  an irrigation network for 70 ha.  The network is in the
center of the polder. It includes a primary canal along
the Western side of the polder, a siphon across the
polder and a network of open ditch secondary canals.
All canals are concrete-lined. Secondaries, and to a
lesser extent primaries, were broken up when the soil
settled in the period of extreme drought in 1972/73;
(c)  a drainage collector for the 70 ha irrigation network.
This collector will be extended to serve the entire
polder;
(d)  the drainage pumping station.  The collector drain ends
at the pumping station located at the northern tip of the
polder.  The station is equipped to drain all of th 
polder area. Its capacity is overdesigned at 1.2 m Is
corresponding to a theoretical flow of 3.25 i/s/ha
(instead of 2.4 l/s/ha required);
(e)  service roads.  Some 4 km of service roads have been
completed or 30% of all service roads required.
x;.3      Works to be executed.  The project includes financing of repairs
Cor thosu works which would be kept, and additional works include:
(a)  construction of pumping facilities at the intake;
(b) construction of 3.3 km of primary canals along the
western side;
(c) installation of 15.2 km of PVC pipes on all polder area;
(d) construction of 2 km of main drainage collector in the
southern part of the polder;
(e) construction of 6.5 km of outside access roads linking
the polder to Bol, and of 15.2 km of service roads
(3.2 km main roads, and 12 km secondary roads);
(f) land levelling on some 20% of the polder area.
III. Berim Polder
3.1       Berim polder touches Bol at the southern tip.  It is 10 km long,
1.1 km wide and has a gross area oI 1,100 ha and a net area of 800 ha. The
polder was sealed off from the lake by three dikes built in 1954. The dikes
average some 200 m each. Except for the dikes, which are in good condition,
no works have been built on Berim.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
3.2       Works to be executed.  The irrigation network will be divided into
two equal parts of some 400 ha each (para 1.3);
(a)  the southern intake will be located 0.8 km east of Bol,
with a capacity of 1 mJ/s, 400 ha x 2.5 1/s/ha. The
lake water level at the intake will be at 279.6 m for
gravity flow.  To allow pumping when gravity flow is
not possible, the bottom of the culvert will be built
at 277.5 m;
(b) the northern intake is identical to the southern intake
except the box culvert will be some 300 m long, as it
will have to cross the dune separating Berim from Mamdi;
(c) 10.8 km of primary canals. In the northern half of the
polder 6.3 km primary canals will be built along the
eastern side of the polder. In the southern half a
4.5 km primary will be built along the western side;
(d)  30 km of PVC pipes with field outlets;
(e)  12.5 km of main drainage collectors, 7.1 km in the
northern half and 4.4 km in the southern half. North and
south drain collectors will join in a common 1 km main
drain collector leading to the pumping station. The
average depth of the collectors will be 2 m;
(f) 1.5 km of access roads and 57.9 km of service roads.
The access roads will link Berim to Bol. The inside
service roads include 20.4 km of main roads and 37.5 km
of secondary roads.



ANNEX 5
Table I
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Irrigation Works Characteristics
Guini                B                   Notes
Area - Gross (ha)                   520                 1,100
Net   (ha)                  370                    800
Shape - Length (L) (km)               6.0                   11.0
1hJidth (1) .km)              0.9                   1.0
Ratio  L/1                            6.7                   11.0             Stretched out area
Bottom Altitude  (m)                278.5                278.3              Very flat terrain
Water Intake
Water Level  (m)               280.5                279.5 a/           a/Irrigation Flow 96 years in 100
Bottom of Intake  (m)           N.A.                277.5 b/           b/To allow pumping when required
Flow (m 3/s)                     0.75 c/              1.0 c/North      c/Existing intake with a 2.0 1/s/ha capacity
1.0 d/South     d/New intake with a 2.5 1/s/ha capacity
Irrigation Network
Exisating Primaries (km)        1.6
Existing Siphon - length (km) 0.9
size (m/m)             635          -
New Primaries (km)                                    6.3 North
3.3                   4.5 South
Total                     5.8 æ/                10.8 s/           e/15.6 m/ha
f/ 13.5 m/ha
Pvc Pipes (km)                15.2 g/                30.0 h/           £/50.0
h/37.5 m/ha
Drainaze Collectors
Exis:ting Collector (km)        4.0
New Collector (km)              2,0                   7.1 North
6,0 i/                4.4 South
1.0 Common       i/16.2 m/ha
12.5 i/           3/25.6 m/ha
Tracks
Outside Tracks (km)              6.5                  1.5
Inside Main Tracks               3.2                 20.4
Secondary Tracks                12.0 >/              30.0 1/           k/32 m/ha
1/37.5 m/ha



UHiAD
LAKtE CHAD POLDERS P9OJECT
IRRIGATION WlORiKS
Construction Schedule
1975__                                _ _ 1976     l_ 1>77                            «               1978                              Notes
f~~~~. 197S   s,. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 197              N M            J   ASO0   N D JF      MA      J     J    S
4 S   0 N  D IJ F  m A  MJ            A  S  ) N  D IJ  F  H  A                                                     A  S       N
Invitation to bid                             _           |
Bids subnission
Bids awards                                                |
Works by Contractors
Procurement and transport of supplies
Construction:  Berim South intake                          I                          - __  _    
Berim North intake            |                  __                         _     _ 
Berim Drainage station                                                                                                  |
Berim small pumping station
Guini small pumping station                         , -_                          _
Works by force account
Procurement and transport of supplies                  *          _
Guini - Primaries                                                                                                                                                                           W)e3.m  40m/day
PVC pipes and outiets                                                               15,200m                                                                                        250m/day
Collectors                                                                                 2,00Qm                                                                                   20m/day
Tracks                                                                                      8.00m      
Land levelling
Berim - Primaries                                                                                 |                                                                                          4_ __ l  1 _Om/day
PVC pipes and outlets                                                                                       1            O                                                         250m/day
Collectors                                         }                                       b                11.20em                          t                                      30m/day
Tracks |evelli
Land levelling|                                                                                                                       t



ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Water Supply and Quality, Irrigation Requirements and Drainage
I. Lake Water Levels
1.1       General
Lake Chad is the remainder of a larg inland sea which in ancient
times extended over an erea of some 350,000 km  and drained a catchment area
of about 2.5 million km . The sea was 155 m at its deepest. Its main tribu-
taries came from the northern mountains of the Air, Tibesti and Ennedi. Be-
tween 5,400 and 4,000 B.C. there was a drastic change in climate throughout
the region. The rivers from the north dried up and the residual lake was
formed on an elevated portion of the western ridge of the old basin at the
point of discharge of the Chari River. The lake was only a few meters deep.
There have been no drastic changes since that time, only oscillations in the
water levels between 279 m and 286 m. These oscillations fit into cyclical
patterns of long duration. The present periqd of relative dryness, which
started some 200 years ago, is similar to that which prevailed between 1,000
and 500 B.C.
1.2       Catchment Area and Tributaries
The present active catchment area extends over some 0.6 million km2
south of the lake. This area is drained by the Chari and other minor rivers
(El Beid, Yedseram and Komadougou). The Chaîi provides the greater part of
the lake water supply, of about 50 billion m in an average year, as follows:
Chari River          83%
Normal rainfall      10%
Other rivers          7%
100%
The Chari'a own catchment area lies for the most part between isohyet 750 m/m
and 1,000 m/m. This zone of relatively high rainfall assures the river of a
fairly constant water supply. It has violent floods and large variations
between high floods and low floods.  At N'Djamena, high floods occur between
September and November, and low floods between March and June.



AMNEX 6
Page 2
1.3       Hydrological Balance
The lake water levels are determined by two offsetting factors: the
water supply, mainly the Chari discharge; and the water losses, through
evaporation (90%) and seepage out of the area (10%). The lake water levels
are highest from September until January following the Chari's high floods,
which precede the rise in the lake water levels by about one to two months.
After January, evaporation from the lake is greater than the Chari's discharge
and the lake water levels recede to their lowest point in July-August. The
normal intra-annual variation is about 0.8 m. In periods of rainfall deficit,
as experienced since 1967, the lake water level drops some 0.4 m annually.
Conversely, in periods of rainfall surplus the lake water level rises about
0.4 m annually. The lake is a reservoir, and its level in a given year is
dependent in large part on the levels attained over the preceding four to five
years. At present the lake is below the level it reaches in a one year in a
hundred frequency. It is estimated that it will take about two years of
normal rainfall over the lake's catchnent area to raise it to the one year
ln ten probability, and four to five years to raise it to its mean level.
1.4       Physical Characteristics
The lake banks have a very slight slope; hence the lake area is very
sensitive to changes in lake water levels, as shown below:
Lake water level          279 m   2       282 m    2      285 m    2
Area                      5,000 km    3  20,000 km   3  30,000 km    3
Lake volume               20 billion m   70 billion m   130 billion m
The lake can be divided into three parts.  The southern basin (about 40% of
the lake area) is shallow, with bottoms at elevations of between 278 and 279 m
(see map), which is always supplied with water by the Chari's discharge. The
northern basin (about 60%) is deeper, with bottoms at 275 to 276 m.  This area
is separated from the south by a sand barrier 50 km wide and peaking at 279-
279.5 m. The only tributary discharging into the northern basin is the
Komadougou, whose flow is not sufficient to offset the evaporation taking
place at the northern basin; hence this portion of the lake partially dries
when the water level in the southern basin drops below 279 m, as occurred in
1973. The archipelago, the third portion of the lake and astride both basins,
is made up of a large number of long, narrow islands, oriented northeast to
south, which are the remnants of ancient sand dunes now partly under water.
The town of Bol near the project area is separated from the southern basin by
a barrier 15 km wide at some places and peaking at 279 to 280 m. Water does
not flow to the Bol area when the water level of the southern basin is below
279 m.
1.5       Lake Water Levels
A meaningful study of lake water levels requires data gathered over
a long period so as to take into account the interrelationships which exist
over any five-year period.  Lake Chad's water levels have been measured for



ANNEX 6
Page 3
31 years. These measurements have been extended by correlation with other
measurements, as follows:
(a)  Measurements.  A water level gauge was put in the southern
basin in 1907 and was read regularly in the periods 1907-08
and 1911-19. A water level recorder, placed at Bol in 1953,
has kept graphic records since then.
(b)  Correlation with Chari high floods.  The Chari flows have
been measured at N'Djamena since 1933, and a correlation
of 0.85 has been established between the Chari high-flood
levels and the variations in the maxima of the lake water
levels.
(c)  Comparison with the Nile River.  The Chari has been compared
with the Nile upstream of Assouan. Both rivers have neighbor-
ing catchment areas and similar flood patterns. The correla-
tion between the high-flood levels of both rivers has been
established at 0.72. The Nile flood data at Assouan have
been kept since 1870.
Lake Chad water level series have been measured or reconstituted through
appropriate correlations over the period 1870-1974. Diaries kept by travel-
lers and the oral tradition describing various water levels have confirmed at
least 20 points on the reconstituted series.
1.6       Statistical Interpretation
Table 1 shows the lake water level variations since 1870, with an
estimated maximum error of 0.2 m per year. There were four periods:
1870 - 1900    high lake water levels
1900 - 1953    alternating high and low levels
1953 - 1965    high levels
1965 - 1974    low levels
A probability ranking of the expected levels at Bol would be as follows:
Intra-annual Variations in Meters
High           Low
One year in 100 - humid                   284.9           284.1
One year in ten - humid                   283.7           282.9
Mean                                      292.3           281.5
One year in ten - dry                     280.9           280.1
One year in 100 - dry                     279.8           278.5



ANNEX 6
Page 4
If an access channel were dug across the sand barrier which isolates Bol
from the rest of the lake so as to allow free access of the lake waters to
Bol, the minimum lake water level at Bol, in a one year in 100 frequency,
would be 279.0 m.
II. Groundwater
2.1       There are two groundwater tables:  a superficial and deep ground-
water table is found below most polders 1/ at a depth averaging less than one
meter. Its level varies with the lake water levels. Much of this water is
not very suitable for irrigation because.
(a) its salinity is much higher (up to 80 times higher) than the
lake water (the lake water is highest in salinity in the
northwestern portion of the Lake Chad area); and
(b)  much of it has alkali characteristics (high PH and high
percentage of sodium).
2.2       The risk of salt accumulating through capillarity would be reduced
by:
(a)  lowering the groundwater below 1.2 m from the surface
(below root level); and
(b) leaching through the irrigation process.
2.3       The deep groundwater table, generally found at a depth of some 30 m,
is less saline than the superficial groundwater table, but is still consider-
ably more saline than the lake water.
III. Water Quality
3.1       The lake water at Bol is classified C1 S1 in the classification
scheme proposed by the US Salinity Laboratory; this is the best category in
all respects for irrigation. The electric conductivity (EC) of the lake
water at Bol ranges from 110 to 140 micromhos, indicating a salinity content
of about 70 mg/1 (ppm). It has been assumed that the project irrigation
water would have an average EC of 200 micromhos (about 150 mg/l). This would
include about 1 meg/l of calcium, 0.5 meg/l of magnesium, and 0.6 meg/1 of
sodium, with most of the anion content consisting of bicarbonate.
1/   Polders are areas of lowlands reclaimed from the sea or any other body
of water by construction of dikes. In the polders the runoff is con-
trolled by sluicing or pumping, and the water table is independent of
the water tables in adjacent areas.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
IV. Water Requirements
4.1       Water requirements have been calculated for a wheat-sotton rotation
(Table 2). 3Annual gross requirements are estimated at 6,600 m ha for wheat
anad 8,000 m /ha for cotton. This a5sumes a 60% overall efficiency. Peak
requirements for cotton are 3,250 lu /ha for the month of June, which
corresponds to a hypothetical flow of 1.25 1/s/ha, over a 24-hour period.
As the average daily irrigation period has been assumed to be 12 hours, the
ciapacity of the irrigation system has been designed for a 2.5 1/s/ha flow.
4.2       Water requirements are based on the following assumptions:
(a) the useful rainfall for plant growing is 50% of the average
rainfall;
(b) the crop rotation is wheat-cotton, with wheat early plantings
which give better results than late plantings;
(c)  water requirements are those experienced at the Matafo
Research Station;
(d) groundwater can provide 50% of cotton requirements after
the sixtieth day in the vegetative process; and
(e)  the efficiency is 0.6, taking into account losses by
infiltration in the fielcds and in the distribution system.
V. Irrigation Water Application
5.1       The field side capacity (or "main d'eau") corresponds to the
maximum discharge that a farmer ca, handle efficiently in irrigating his
land, about 30 l/s, or about 100 m /hour. The continuous discharge is
2.5 1/s/ha, thus enabling 12 ha to be irrigated. The 12-ha unit is called
a "quartier hydraulique."  The "quartier hydraulique" comprises 12 one-hectare
lots, with each lot cultivated by one farmer. The 12 farmers share the "main
d'eau" on a rotation basis.
5.2       The choice of the rotation system would be largely up to project
management. A possibility is the irrigation of a one-hectare plot alone for
10 hours every 12 days; another is the irrigation of two one-hectare plots
simultaneously for 12 hours every 10 days. The maximum time the "main d'eau"
can be applied to one hectare is 10 hours as the total usable r serve of the
soils including an efficiency of 60'  is between 850 and 1,000 m /ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
5.3       The polder soils are so permeable that the irrigation "runs"
(length of furrows) cannot exceed 70 meters without undue losses; with
furrows at one-meter spacing, 140 furrows per ha would be required. These
would have to be irrigated in one hour, or slightly more than two furrows per
minute. To make this possible, the farmers may have two sets of five siphons,
each set delivering into a small ditch serving a group of 10 furrows for 10
minutes each.
VI. Lake Water Supply
6.1       There is no problem of water supply availability.  The irrigation
water reruirements at the source for §uini and Berim polders would be
14,620 m x 1,170 ha, or 17 million m , which is only 0.003% of the average
annual supply to the lake.
6.2       Given the principle of gravity irrigation and constant downstream
level gate retained for the project, the water intakes must be built at 1.1 m
above the polders' bottom (or at 278.5 m + 1.1 m - 279.6 m), and must ha3e
the capacity to irrigate about 400 ha each (or 2.5 i/s x 400 - about 1 m /s).
The study of the series of 105 years of lake water levels indicates the
following probabilities:
96 years in 100      -    irrigation by gravity
3 years in 100      -    pumping required six months for irrigation
1 year  in 100      -    no irrigation possible during four months
1 year  in 100      -    of the year (June - September)
VII. Drainage
7.1       Drainage is required to prevent salt from accumulating on the soil
surface through evaporation or evapotranspiration (Annex 2). The drainage
system is designed with a capacity sufficient to:
(a) handle water seeping through the dunes;
(b)  handle rainfall and irrigation water; and
(c)  maintain the groundwater level below 1.2 m from the surface
in order to prevent the water from rising through capillarity.
7.2       The flow of seeping lake water through the dunes has been calculated
for the one in 100 years high lake level frequency and for the month of August
immediately preceding that high lake level. The latter verification is
necessary because August is the month of greatest rainfall concentration and
the August rainfall may raise the lake level more than the following year's



ANNEX 6
Page 7
normal increase following the Chari River high-flood level. The calculations
for Berim polder show the flow of water seeping through the dunes to be
(a) 0.730 m3/s for the one in 100 years high lake level frequency, and
(b) 0.680 m3/s for the month of August. This assumes that Mamdi polder would
be dried up.  If Mamdi were not dried up, the respective flows would be 0.820
anid 0.700 m3/s.
7.3       Draining must eliminate not only seepage through the dunes but also
conveyance losses and that fraction of rainfall which is not consumed by the
crops. In January, when the lake water level is highest, gross water require-
ments are estimated at 240 mm and conveyance losses at 96 mm (60% efficiency),
or 0.287 m3/s for Berim. There are no rains in January. In August, conveyance
losses are 21 mm and 50% of the rainfall, or 71 mm, is unused.  The August
total to be eliminated in addition to seepage water is 92 mm, or 0.275 m3/s
for Betim.
7.4       Thus, total drainage requirements for Berim are:
In January:  0.820 m3/s + 0.287 m3/s = 1.107 m3/s
In August:   0.700 mI /s + 0.275 m /s = 0.975 m /s
Tlhe capacity of the drainage systemi for Berim has been designed for 1.0 m /s,
or 1.25 1/s/ha net area.  The Guini polder drainage system, which is already
partly built, was designed for 3.2 1/s/ha and consequently is over-designed.
7.5       The above calculation of the capacity of the drainage system does
not include the exceptional one in ten years frequency rainfall of 80 mm in a
s:Lngle day. This rainfall would raise the water table level by 0.40 m,
assuming a 20% aquifer coefficient of storage to 0.80 m below the surface
level, which will not cause any daniage to cotton.  However, in the case of
exceptional rainfall, water may accumulate in the lower parts of the polders,
which again should not damage the cotton crop as at that time cotton can
wîthstand a submersion of about teni days.



to bDdr.4 yt "
bcx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
25800 --                                                                                                                -Mo
cmi POT mu PrOJ
L-ke Iat.- Rup2y .sd D...sd 
283p0                                                                                                          _ _ _---             _  _ _
!+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ", Rilil                                                                                     l
(1870 - 197l)
*                                        1555         Il Il  liii I liii                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~l11Ilt     1|1111tg11jM 1llllllilIilllli n0,u. ,.""G  .............  ",. n,tIlnf 
t                                S        sa C                      Uu          '',,"n,,,,,- 8                         [      | jW     *a rIIt5II~IIItIiI~, s  lii 
uîrrrs'                                    fllllRllllU                             l     '  {,"1,l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 11w1m .uo  le"                         -.0lt    ,    ,
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   uflt--   
t~~~ ~~~~ .'    . ., . .,
lii I                                          Ilf               ' tlo >tD
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II(.I)   I _
m,lv o g | ~~~~~~~I1I*  ||                                                            II  St                     |/1''7   i   zà.



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Water Supply and Quality; Irrigation Requirements and Drainage
Water Requirements
Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.   March  April  May    June  July  Aug.   Sept.  Oct.         Total
Evapotranspiration m/m           179    146    144    142       208    228   227    295   181   148       151   199      2,148
Rainfall (Average) m/m                                                          8      9    69   142       43      9       280
Rainfall used (50%0 m/m                                                                     35    71       22              128
Crops and Vegetative Cycle    x        Wheat             x           x        Coton                 x
from
Cultivation Coefficient ETR/ETP   0.6    0.6    1.0    0.75              0.6   0.6    1.0   1.0   0.9
1.0
Water Requirements m/m
(ETR + used Rainfall)            72    110    144      71              45   136    195   146    62                        981
From Groundwater m/m                                                                        73    31                       104
Net Irrigation Requirements m/m  72    110    144       71              45   136    195    73    31                        877
Gross Irrigation Requirements
m/m (efficiency 0.6)            120    183    240    118               75   227    325   122    52                      1,462
m3/ha             1,200  1,830  2,400  1,180              750 2,270  3,250 1,220   520                     14,620
1/s/ha                                                                1.25                                        o
CD 1-



ChAD
LAKE CHASD POLERS PROJ30T
FroPect Co-t .0d Financing
TotAlI                      ----            ____ __-_ ___ --_ ----FinAnced BY--------------------------------------------
96    1977          1987           1979               1976-1979                      
CF7           1977 CFS                     197                17-]7                 -----IDA-----                -----AFDF --------            --------THSAID------          ____ FAC----
CF o         CA7F D00      CFAF 000       CFAF 000    CFAF 000         USE  0o0      COAF 000        00u$ 0D(      CrlAF 000       Es$ 000      CFAF 000        00$C7 0         rAF 0OO       01$ 000
Fonrar- t W                                                            155990         52,107          - t                        208,000            930         -                           208,000            930
Force Accormt.
E.ppîtes and Equipment Roccicg Goals                                 89.100 201 .900              105.10          -            695,700          3,090       237 0171)        1,059       361,90).        1s90                                        96,800       4519
0qn1pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ce                            7~~~~~~~24,      --                                       124.700            56))        -              -             747050 
Sooip_ia - Eopaerl28.100                                                            23,100          7,100                       63, 240           280        45,000            200          718,300                                                                  80
- iLocAl                                                    5,200          5,200         1,300          _            11,700              50         6,800             30                                                                     4,900         20
Cocoultino Serv4ces                                                   4,200          2,l0))         1,000         -              7.300             30         4.5)))            20                                                                     2,800         10
VehOrlea                                                              2,700          _                            ,              2,700             10         2,100              10                                                                      600         -
HoreOog                                                              17.900          -              -             -             17900              80         -                 -          17.900             80                                       _
Tota1 Ircigatica Worke  Construction                                  427,8On        389,000        114,00))         -         1,131,300          5,030       295,400          1,310        712,500          3,160                                     123,40),       56o
Irrle,atton 00r6S - SoPervsiaoo
Saa s q,a tr .Ooff                                         12,20))        31,300         2,720,         4,800         70,020                       51,800            230                                                                    18,700         90
L-1LclOaf2,200                                                              4,400          7,500         -              4,100             60         9,000             40                                                                     5.100         20
Rousing                                                                  9,000         -              1,300          -            10,300             50         -                 -          10,300             50                                       -             _
VehicleF                                                                 5,400                                                     5,400             20          2,300             10                                                                    3,100         10
Equipment                                                                1,100         1.100          -              -             2,200             10         2.200              10                  __________________________________________________-- - -20__20__lo_
Total Orrlgatlen Workg Sopercloîo                                      29,9),)      36,8OO         3 1,00)o       4,800)       102,500            460        65,300             290        10,300             50                                      26,900        120
Fore, Sevelooment - Oortrolturel Section
lai arles- Expatriate Staff                                              -            14,800         24,90n        24,9)1)1       64,6010           790        45,911,'          20)                                                                    18,0)))        90
Oosiang ad stores                                                       17.900        15 300          2,500          -            35,7n0            160                            -                                                                    135,700  160 
Vehiclea                                                                 5,600         2.900            600          2,900        12,000             50         6,700              30                                                                    5,300         20
îqolpoaot                                                                             23L000         16.200         1.5300        54.500            240        38.300             170                                                                  516200          70
Total Fa.,r Dr-elopo-t Agricouroral Section                             23,500        56,000         44,207        43,100        166,8)))           740        90,9n0            400         35,700            160                                      10,700        180
Farc  Develonceat - Settters
lntoipntAl 3stFo nFl  ..t raî                                            - -                           6,000        10,200        16.800             70        11.300              70                                                                     5,500        20
Occreocotol Scascoal (redIt                   -              -             12,10~   ~ ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~0 8.100  20.200  90  15,700     70                                                                     O 500        20
TotRI FstAe Oevelopmeot-SeIOlrrs                                         -             -             18,700         18,300        37,000            160        27,000             120                                                                    0,00o         40
Aorîcolural Oeearch  Q107AI   C,-eal)100n                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
SoloriOultura l Eesesrch-(llsAl  - Cere  sl                             _             39.600         39,600        39,600        118,800            530         --                                                       IIS,S00             530
Housing                                                                 26,900         -              -              -            26,900            120          -                                                         26,9nn            120         -             -
Vehiclea                                                                 -             5,400                                       540               20          -                                                          5,400             20
EqaîptdAct                                                               _6000 I l                                                 1,100             10         -                                                           1,100             10
A,6lnletratlva Eapenses                                                  -              6,000         6,000          6,000        18,000             80          -                 _                                       18.000             80          -            -__
Total Ogror,,icelu     Feseaorcl,  (04A7  - Cereals)                    26,900        52,10         45,600        45,600        170,200            760         -                  -                                      170,200            760
tural  Resesre}(IRCT - C-rt-n
Salorîc,,)tcraS  troua,,).  (IRIS -  00000                               -             3.80'          1,01'          3,800        11,40c             40         8,0011             30                                                                     3,30).       I0
lor,O0g                                                               -              8,5r0                                       8,500             4n         6,000             30                                                                     2,500         10
0ep                                                                      _             1,90                                        1,900             10         1,40               10                                                                       500 
75 OlpnO OC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          0
Odc,,,lisraîcvc ExpenSses-                                               -                600           6r)))          6no          1.800             10   _     1.300             10                                     --____  _________6__1__           501         -
Tolt  AarOcolîoroO Raeorrh (IRCT - Co(IoR                                -            14,800)         4,4001        I.,400        23,600            100        16,800              Sh                                                                     6,80))        70
Fro ject Uneit Ovarhaad
alarlea - Exaotriatc Staff                                              27,0000        71,000               77,00 0  7,70Ô       108,000            490        76,100             30                                                                    31,30r)       150
- Local Staff                                                  0,800         8,170          9,200          9,700        28,300            130        20,100              90       '                                                             8,200        40
RotFing                                                                 10,0400        2,600          -, -                        20.600             90        -63'soo             60-       20,600             90                                         200         4r
VeliScles                                            ~~~~~~~         ~      ~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~13,0   -5,40o  18,800  80  13,500          60                                                                     9,0           )
Oqolpce-t                                                                9,30Il         -             -              -9,300                          40         6,800              30                                                                     2,500        10
Rquipefoîtatv   9coe                                                      380          27.000        29,000         37.000         90.S00           400         63.000            280                                                                    27,800       120
Total PrJtro   Olt )Overhead                                            73,300        64,700         65,70n         77,600       775,800          1,73)1      18), Ion            80so       20,61))            90                                       75,100        340
ConsuîOltne   errvices a-d Other                                         5,600         S,800          8,800          ,800        32,000            140         22,500            100                                                                     9,500        40
Total Proieot Goat Prior to Contingancies                              587,n00       822,200       i1)2,40))       197,600     1,939,201)         8,620       698,000          3,100        779,100          3,460        170,200            760        291,900     1,300
Phyeical Contingencies /1                                               75,600       702,400         29,200         10,600       217,800            970        71,600             320       108,400            480          8,500             40         29,306       13)
FrIre Cocetlcgeoee  77/2                                               164,400       331,600        IS4,300        117,700       768,000          3,410       355,>00          1,580        237,500          1,060         46,300            200        128,800       570
Total Pro200t C7st s£ter Coctîngeoc4oa                                 827,00D     1,256,20()       515,90)'       325.900    2,025,01,0         13.000     1,125,000          S0700    1,125,000            9,0o))       225,000          1,000       450,000      2,07))
0001   C FAF 225
/Il                                                                    /2  Civil Wcrks - 1975         l67  ocl,cr 12"
107     -ks                                                                            1976      147Y         10
SO  tho  -at                                                                          1977      127           8Y
1978-79  107           7'



CHAD
LAKE CHAO POLDERS PROJECT
Prnje ct Cfo t
Irrigati O Works
Total
1 9 75               9 7 6            1 9 Y               1' 7 8              1 979                    7 6 - 1 9 7 9
A.  Contracts                                                 Unit Cost      #                  9                   G
Gu-1 - panpicg station                                     5,200              3,900               1,30(                                                            5,200
Berim - Nr th water Intake                               145,600            109,200              36,400                                                          145 600
North pum1ping station                            5,200               3,900              1,300                                                            5,200
South water irtake                                27,000             20,200              6,800                                                            27,000
Lrainage pamping
station                                    25,000              18,700              6,300                                                           25,000
lotal Contracts                                                             155,900             52,100                                                           208,0O0
B.  Force Accoant
B.1 Supplies and Oquiosent Runmnsg Costs
GCini -  orainage collectors                           3,100                                  3,100                                                            3,100
Irrigation primaries                         55,100              27,500             ?7,600                                                           55,100
necondaries                      114,400              57,200             57,200                                                          11i4,400
outlets                             8,300              4,100              4,200                                                            8,300
Land planning                                 13,500                                13,500                                                           13,500
Tracks                                        17,700              3,900             13,800                                                           17,700
SubtntcI Ostosn                                                          92,700            119,400                                                          212,100
Ber-s - Drainage colleotors                           16,6G0                                12,500               4,100                                       16,600
Irrigation prim.aries                       181,000                                150,200              30,800                                      181,000
seoendaries                      247,500                                185,600              61,900                                      247,500
outlets                           17,700                                 13,300               4,400                                       17,700
Lard planning                                32,200                                 25,800               6,400                                       32,200
Tracks                                       17,700                  __15_ _800                          1,900                                       17.700
Subtotal Ferul                                                                             403,200             109,500                                      512,700
B.2 EqiPment
Bulldozer 65 hp                                        9,200        4    36,800                                                                               36,800
Tracks 4t                                              6,400        3    19,200                                                                               19,200
Shovel truck 55 hp                                    13,900        2    27,800                                                                               27,800
Loader 85 hp                                          12,600        1    12,600                                                                               12,600
Conorete miner 350 1                                    600         2     1,200                                                                               1,200
Tractor 65 hp                                          2,400        3     7,200                                                                                7,200
Land plane                                             5,700        1     5,700                                                                                5,700
Grader                                                14,200        1    14,200                                                                               14,200
Total Equipment                                                             124,700                                                                              124,700
B.3 Ltss Equipoant Depreciationl included in B.1                            (3,900)             (22,700)           (4,800)                                       (31,500D)
B.4 Staff Salaries and Consulting Services
Construction general foreman                          14,600        1    14,600        1    14,600        ¼      3,700                                        32,900
Construotion foreman                                  13,500        1    13,500        1    13,500         ,    3,400                                        30,400
Local staff                                                               5,200              5,200               1,300                                        11,700
Co.eulting sereines                                                       4,200              2,100               1.000 7o300
Total Stafi Salaries                                                         37,500              35,400              9,400                                        82,300
B-5 Staff Vehicles and Vehioles Runnirg ^ots
4-wheel drive                                          2,700        1     2,700                                                                                2,700
Runnmng cost                                           1,600               300             1, 6 00                o00                                         2,300
Tot'l Staff 3ehhcio -sad Runnoig Coss                                         3,000             1,600                  400                                         5,000
B.o Staff Housire
Se-,or  taff housn                                    7,800  *           15,6OO                                                                              15,600
Uti 1ties                                                                 2,300                                                                                2,300
Total Staff Housing                                                          17,900                                                                               17,900     é
TOIAL IRRIGATION WGREKS                                                          527,800            589,0OO             1l4,55,0c                                   1,131,300



CHAD
LAKE CRAD POLDERS PROJECT
Project Cost
Staff
(CFAF'(OO)
Total
Unit Cost  #   1976       #    1977  #       1978      #   1979      1976-1979               1980       f      1981       #      1982      #       1983       f      1984        f      1985
Project Unit
DireC t ion
20, 10(0    1   20,100    1  20,100   1  2(,100   1  20,100          80,400
Assistant Manager                    1,770l)                   I   1,700   1   1,700   1   1,700          5,100          1    2,100        1    2,100       1      2,100       1    2,100        1    2,100         1    2,100
Secretary                              300    1       3200                                                               1      300        1      300       1        300       1       300 i   300                 1       300
Total                                   20,400         22,100       22,100        22,100      86,700               2,400             2,400             2,400              2,400             2,400             2,400
Rural Engineerin
Roral Engineer                      19,1(0    1               1  19,100    1  19,100   î4  4,800         43,000              _                 _                 _                 _                  _
Associate Rurall Engineer            1,400                    1   1,400   1   1,400   1   1,400           4,200          1    1,400        1    1,400       1      1,400       1    1,400        1    1,400         1    1,400
Technical As-istants                   50D     I      500    2   1,000   2   1,000   2   1,000            3,500          2    1,000        2    1,000       2      1,000       2    1,000        2    1,000        2    1,000
Watermen                               300    1        300    2      600   3       900   3      900       2.700          5    1.500        5    1 500       5      1,500       5    1.500        5    1,500         5    1
Total                                      800         22,100       22,400         8,100      53,400               3,900             3,900             3,900              3,900             3,900             3,900
Administration
Director                             1,500         -          I   1,500   1   1,500   1   1,500           4,500
Assistant  Dire-tor                  1,300         -          1   1,300   1   1,300   1   1,300           3,900          1    1,300        1    1,300       1      1,300       1    1,300        1    1,300         1    1,300
Secretary                              300    1       300    1       300   1      30(   1       300       1,200          1       300       1       300      1        300       1       300       1       300        1       300
Accountants                            400    1       400    1       400   1      400   1       400       1,600_                400               400 1             400        1       400       1       400        1      400
Total                                     7T00          3,500        3,500         3,500      11,200               2,000             2,000             2,000              2,000             2,000             2,000
Fa.s Development
Director Field Operations           14,800         -          1  14,800   1  14,800   1  14,800          44,400
Commercial Manager                  10,100         -               -        1  10,100   1  10,100        20,200
Assistant Field Manager              1,400         -           1   1,400   2   2,800   2   2,800          7,000          1    1,400
Senior Extension Offie-r             1,300         -          I   1,300   1   1,300    1   1,300          3,900          1    1,700        1    1,700       1     1,700        1    1,700        1    1,700         1    1,700
Section Extension Officers             800         _          2   1,600   3   2,400   3   2,400           6,400         3    2,400        3    2,400       3      2,400        3    2,400        3    2,400        3    2,400
Extension Agents  1/                   300         -          9   2,700  14   4,200  25   7,500          14,400         29    8,700       29    8,700    12       3,600       12    3,600       12    3,600        12    3,600
Recrsiutent Officer                  1,100         -          1   1,100   1   1,100   1   1,100           3,300
Re-ruitnent Assistant                  800         _          1    -        1     800  1_   800         l,600                                                                      -
Total                                                22.900        37 on0       40 800    101 2(,                14,200          _12800               7,700             7,700              7,700             7,700
Total Staff (Table 3)                  21,900        70,600        85,500       74,500    252,500                22,500            21,100            16,000            16,000             16,000            16,000
1/  Ration of Agents  First year   1:30
Second year   1:60                                                                                                                                                                                              t z
Third year   1:100                                                                                                                                                                                             t z



CHAD
LAtKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
prolject Cost
Staff
(CAF ' 000 )
Total
Unit Coot      N     1976      0      1977     Lt    1978       J     1979       1976-1979      #      1980        _   1981      #      1982      J      1983      #     1984      #      1985
T oporaPhy
Topographer                                                      12,200       1   12,200       1   12,200    1/4   3,100                           27,500
AsSiatan  topo8rapîor                                             1,400              -               -         1    1,400                           1,400
Technical Assistants                                                700   2  1,400   2  1,400   4  2,800                                            5,60Q                     __                     __-
Total                                                                           13,600           13,600           7.300                          34,500
forage 6 Maintenance
Chief t      iochanoi                                             6,900       1    6.900       1    6,900      1    6,900      1    6,900          27,600
Do-ty Chief                                                         800               -        I      800      1      800      1       800          2,400       1    1,100       1    1,100      1    1,100    1       1,100      1    1,100       1    1,100
Soroor Methanita                                                    100       1       500      2    1,000      2    1,000      2    1,000           3,200       2    1,000       2    100no      2    1,000    2       1,000      2    1,000       2    1,000
Pumtping Station Oechontct                                          500               -        I      son      2    1 000      2    1,000           2,500       2    1,000       2    1,00       2    1,000    2       1,000      2    1,000       2    1 000
St-rekeep-rs                                                        300       1       300      1      300      3      900      3       900          2.400       3      900       2      6 00     2       600    2        600      2       600      2      600
Tot                                                                              7,700            9,000          10,600          10,600          38.40n            4,000            3,700           3700             3,700            3,700           3,700
Agr cultural Researchl
Agronomeis t                                                     13,000               -        1   13,800      1   13,800      1   13,800          41400
Agroecononls t                                                   12,200               _        1       12,200  1   12,200      1   12,200          36,600
0g1l Scientiet                                                   12,200               _        1   12,200      1   12,200      1   12.200          36,600
Technical Afisilfstont                                              700       _       -        2    1,400      2    1.400      2    1,400           4,200                    _________________ ___    _ _ _ -__70_2 1_00__140_420
Total                                                                                            39,600          39,600          39,600         118,8000_ __ 
Total Staff (Toble 4î                                                           21,300           62,700          5/,00__         50_200         191,f[(1           4,000            3,700           3,700            3.700            3,700           3,700
Total Staff (Tahle 3 and Table 4)                                               43.200          133.300         143.000         124 700        444.200          _26                24 800   __ 19,700               19.700           19,700          19,700



CHAD
IAEE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Project Costa
Hou in3
(CFAF000)
Total
Unit Cost -#  1976        #  1977       #  1978      #  1979        1976-1979
Direction
Senior staff house                        7,800     1    7,800                                                 7,800
Utilities                                 at 15%          1,200                                                1,200
Total                                               9,000                                                 9,000
Rural Engineering
Senior staff bouse                        7,800     1    7,800                                                 7,800
Utilities                                 at 15X          1,200                                                1,200
Total                                               9,000                                                 9,0Oo
Administration
Senior staff house                        7,800     1    7,80                                                  7,800
Junior staff house                        1,100                   1    1,100                                   1,100
Utilities                                 at 15%          1,200           200                                  1,400
Total                                               9,000         1,300                                  14%300
Far% develo.pment
Senior staff house                        7,800     1    7,800                                                 7,800
Junior staff house                        1,100      2    2,200   2    2,200   2    2,200                      6,600
Utilities                                 at 15%          1,500           300          300                     2,100
Service center stores                     6,400     1    6,400   2   12,800                                   19,200
Total                                              17,900        15,300         2,500                    35,700
Tqpooraplh
Jiiiiior staff house                      1,100                                 1    1,100                     1,100
Utilities                                 at 15%                                        200                      200
Total                                                                           1,300                     1,300
Garae
Junior staff house                        1,100                    1    1,100                                  1,100
Utilities                                 at 15A                          200                                    200
Total                                                             1,300                                   1,300
Agricultural research                                                                                                     I
Senior staff house                        7,800     3   23,400                                                23,400  
Utilities                                 at 15A          3,500                                                3,500 
Total                                               26,900                                               26,900
TOTAL HOUSING                                            71,800       17,900         3,800                    93,50C



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Proiect Cost
Vehicles
(CFAF'000)
Total
Unit Cost    #    1976    #    1977    #    1978    #    1979    1976-1979    #    1980    #    1981    #    1982    #    1983    #    1984
Project Unit
Direction
Four-Wheel Drive     2,700       1   2,700          -            -        1   2,700      5,400            -             -            -             -             -
Rural Engineerin
Four_Wheel Drive     2,700       1   2,700          -            -             -         2,700            -             -            -             -             -
Faro Development
Four-Wheel Drive      2,700      2   5,400    1   2,700          -        1   2,700     10,800            -             -       1   2,700
Trail Bikes             200      1     200    1      200    3     600    1      200      1,200       1     200    3      600    1     200          -        2     400
Topography
Four-Wheel Drive     2,700       1   2,700          -            -             -         2,700            -             -            -             -             -
Garage
Four  Wheel Drive      2,700      1   2,700          -            -        1   2,700      5,400            -             -            -             -             _
5-ton Truck          8,000       1   8,000          -            -             -         8,000
Agricultural Research
Four Wheel Drive      2,700           -        2   5,400         -             -         5,400            -             -            -             -             -
Total Vehicles                 24,400        8,300           600        8,300      41,600             200          600         2,900          -              400
…D X



00o0|0   .Mo noXx        r                                      R9     ,  3f<  R 0   OR  O
" <t 0<    3  eO    =0'  s3        >~o < 1  -'3<*<.0,E<   o   03              <-t 0<0,   = 
'40 ° 1  010   0<    00         -«   =O o00<r£  33o<-                         "''    <tD X
'I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O   O                                         r,  0'
Il   P00PPO00 n»~  
l  o<-0 oo
3ll  0000=                                                                                        3 -
000
ll       _     1-    0   0t Vl w      O 14 _ sb 12- 0 C
sI~~~ ~                 -      0C3'0 o1 oM00,
F0000                                330    OM       _ M      _M                                _
5l                                    0000  000   O    0
<Il  000C                                       O        - M 
Il Ot.'lOtb<                         <at                    - vl>@ _œO 0 OtOD        ->  
1I000c o    o                                               ox m  o
31 000                               O C       O        O        O 
-1                                                                                                                 3 < 3 
lil~~~~~~~~                                                                          ~    ~~~~~ o o8*  -.>-  -
31                                                                                               -.     <330  <3  .
l, or                                                                                                         338   333
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r
11000 8888 80
FI 00000                             O    - 8C O
Il  O                                                 M         M
<1000 ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     U     9 o o OC
L X1INNV



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Pro1ect Coet
Direct Expenses
<CFAF 000)
Total
Unit Coet       #       1976      #       1977      #        1978     #        1979   1976-1979   #         1980      #        1981     #        1982      #       1983      #        1984
A. Frarm Developanent
- Agricultural Section
Farm Equipnent
Running Cost
Tractor          Hr  CFAF 1,300/Hr                   1,220             3,640              6,660                        7,690             5,100             1,010                400               400
CFAF                                            1,600             4,700             8,700    15,000             10,000             6,600              1,300                500               500
Harvester         Hr  CFAF 3,700/Hr                     80               320                570                          615               505                365               365               365
CFAF                                              300             1,200             2,100      3,600             2,300              1,900             1,400             1,400              1,400
Other Farm
Equipment            15% of Cost                               1,100             3,400             4,100      8,600             4,300              3,000             1,000                600               600
Labor       Mandays  CFAF 200/day                    4,400            17,20C            40,000                       68,900             28,500             3,300              3,300             3,300
CFAF                                              900             3,400             8,000    12,300             13,800             5,700                700                700               700
Cotton Seed       ha  CFAF 1,900/ha                     20                70                270                         420                220                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                               -                100               500        600               800                400                -                  -                 -
Wheat Seed        ha  CFAF 5,200/ha                      50               220               420                          420                20                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              300             1,100             2,200      3,600             2,200                100               100                100               100
Herbicide Cotton ha  CFAF 3,700/ha                      20                70                270                          420               220                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              100               300             1,000      1,400             1,600                800               100                100               100
Herbicide Wheat  ha  CFAF 1,800/ha                      50               220                420                          420                20                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              100               400               800      1,300               800                 -                 -                  -                 -
Insect icide
Cotton           ha  CFAF 35,000/ha                    20                70                270                         420                220                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              700             2,500             9,500    12,700             14,700             7,700                700                700               700
Insurance. Packing
Fumigation
Wheat             ha  CFAF 6,000/ha                      50              220                420                          420                20                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              300             1,300             2,500      4,100             2,500                100               100                100               100
Cotton            ha  CFAF 5,800/ha                     20                70                270                         420                220                 20                20                 20
CFAF                                              100               400             1,600      2,100             2.400             1,300                100                100   _           100
TOTAL AGRICULTtlRAL SECTION                                     5,500            18,800            41.000    65,300             55,400            27,600              5,500              4,300             4.300



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Pro iect Costs
Direct Expenses
(CFAF 000)
Total
1976-
Unit Cost       #        1976       #        1977       #        1978       #        1979        1979       #        1980        #       1981        #        1982
B. Farm Development - Settlers
Cotton Seed           ha           CFAF 1,900/ha                                               250                 400                             650                  950               1,150
CFAF                                                                                500                 800        1,300              1,200               1,800                2,200
Wheat Seed            ha            CFAF 5,200/ha                                               400                 500                             750               1,150               1,150
CFAF                                                                              2,100               2,600       4,700               3,900               6,000                6,000
Insecticides Cotton  ha            CFAF 35,000/ha                                              250                 400                             650                  950               1,150
CFAF                                                                              8,800              14,000      22,800              22,800              33,300              40,300
Fertilizer Wheat      ha           CFAF 14,000/ha                                                50                200                             400                  650               1,150
CFAF                                                                                700               2,800        3,500              5,600               9,100               16,100
Total Far. Development Settlers                                                                        12,100              20,200       32.300             33,500              50.200               64 600
C. Pumping of Drainage Water
Guini Pumping                      CFAF 174,000/kwh                                              45     7,800       45      7,800       15,600       45     7,800        45      7,800       45      7,800
Berim Pumping                       CFAF 174,000/kwh                                            100    17.400       100    17.400       34,800      100    17,400       100    17.400        100    17,400
Total Pumaping                                                                                         25,200              25,200       50,400             25,200              25,200               25,200
D. Maintenance of Irrigation System
Concrete Works                                                                                                                                                                     600               2,900
Earth Works                                                                                               500               1,800        2,300              1,800                1,800               1,800
PVC Pipes                                                                                                                                                                          200               1,900
Field Outlets and Gates                                                                                                                                                            200               2,200
Total Maintenance                                                                                         500               1,800        2,300              1,800                2,800               8,800



CHAD
LAE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Project Cost
Administrative and Indirect Expenses
Unit                                                         Total
Cost           1976       1977       1978       1979       1976-1979
..........................    . ...CFAF   f000 *O  ............ .....
Ail Sections Except Agricultural Research
Vehicles Running Coet
Four-wheel drive                           1,600      2  3,200   7 11,200   7 11,200  7 11,200          36,800
Trial bikes                                   50             -   2    100   6    300  6    300              700
5-ton truck                                2,100             -   1 2,100   1 2,100  1  2,100             6,300
Vehicle &pares                          15% of cost             -      4,ooo       4,100     4,100          12,200
Utilities                                 200/house             -  13  2,600  14  2,800 15 3,000             8,400
Office Supplies                    CFAF 10/ employee          500      1,300       2,700     4,200           8,700
Building Maintenance                   3-5% of cost             -      4,800      5,000      5,300          15,100
Miscellaneous                                                 100        900         800       800           2,600
Total                             3,800      27,000     29,000    31,000          90,800
Agricultural Research
Vehicle Running Cost                       1,600             -   2  3,200   2  3,200  2  3,200           9,600
Vehicle Spares                      15% of cost              -        800         800       800           2,h00
Utilities                              200/house             -   3    600   3    600  3    600            1,800
Office Supplies                 CFAF 50/employee             -        200         200       200            600
Building maintenance               3.5% of cost              -      1,000      1,000      1,000          3,000
Miscellaneous                                                -        200         200       200            600    H >
Total                                 -      6,000       6,000     6,000          18,000      <



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POIDERS PROJECT
Project Unit
Income Statement and Cash Flow
(CFAF'000)
Total
1976         1977          1978          1979          1976-1979           1980          1981         1982         1983
A.  Income Statement
Revenues
Farmers Water Charges (O.M.)                                                   22,200        37,000          59,200            55,500       85,100       85,100        85,100
Sales from Agricultural Section
Seed Cotton                                              4,800           11,400        37,900         54,100            57,800        31,300        4,800        4,800
Wheat                                                     7,800          29.000        54.000          90,800           54,000         4.000        4.000        4,000
Total Revenues                                   12,600          62,600       128,900         204,100          167,300       120,400       93,900        93,900
Expenses
Wheat Marketing and Transport
Direct Expenses                                                   800           9,400         14,000         24,200            17,300       15,900        15,900       15,900
Irrigation Works Operations                                                             3,300           3,300            3,900         3,900        3,900        3,900
Farm Operations                                          12,300          30,100        55,600         98,000            69,800       41,000        16,100       12,000
Pumping Costs                                               -            25,200        25,200         50,400            25,200        25,200       25,200       25,200
Maintenance of Irrigation System                                            500         1,800           2,300            1,800         2,800        8,800        8,800
Project Unit Overhead
Salaries                                                                                                                 8,400         8,100        8,100        8,100
Administrative Expenses                                                                                                 20,000        20,000       20,000       20,000
Total Expenses                                   13,100          65,200        99,900         178,200          146,400       116,900       98,000        93,900
Net Operating Income (Loss)                                          (500)         (2,600)       29,000         25,900            20,900         3,500      (4,100)         -
B. Cash Flow
Farmers Water Charges (Capital)                                                   12,300        20,500         32,800            30,800       47,200       47,200        47,200
SODELAC Debt Repayment                                                                          23,400         23,400            41,500       44,500        47,500       47,500
Net Yearly Cash Flow                                                     12,300        (2,900)          9,400          (10,700)        2,700         (300)         (300)
Cumulative Net Cash Flow                                                 12,300         9,400                          ( 1,300)        1,400        1,100          800
I*H33
aX



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Project Cost
Consulting Services and Other
(CFAF '000)
Unit                                                          Total
Cost        1976        1977        1978        1979        1976-1979
Consultant in organization   CFAF1,400,000/
to SODELAC                  month   h  5,600    2  2,800    2  2,800   2   2,800           14,000
Audit of Project Accounts                              1,000       1,000       1,ooo          3,000
Scholarship                                           5,000       5,000        5eOOO           O000
Total                    5,600       8,800       8,800        8,800         32,000
(D<



ANNEX 7
Table 13
C_D
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJEC?
Project Cost
IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                       at End of Quarter
(US$ '00o)
2nd Quarter                                   400
3rd Quarter                                   400
4th Quarter                                   400
PY 77Q
Ist Quarter                                 1,000
2nd Quarter                                 l~,000
3rd Quarter                                 1,5OO
4th Quarter                                 2,000
FY 78
lst Quarter                                 2,r,00
2nd Quarter                                 3,CC0
3rd Quarter                                 3, $00
4th Quarter                                 4,000
FY 79
lst Quarter                                 4,100
2nd Quarter                                 4,20O
3rd Quarter                                 4,300
.4th Quarter                                44,oC
FY 80
1st Quarter                                 4,50Q
2nd Quarter                                 4,600
3rd Quarter                                 4,700
4th Quarter                                 5,000






CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Organization Chart
SO D ELAC
.President
Projec                                   Activities     l
Management                              Outside Project
Garage             Rural                Field              Administration        Agricultural
Engineering         Operations                                Research
Commercial          Farmers
- Topography         Section              Development
World Bank-9744






ANNEX 8
Schedule 1
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Organization
Terms of Reference of the Engineering Consulting Firm
providing Seconded Staff
1.        Objective.  An engineering consulting firm would be asked to provide
the expertise necessary to assist SODELAC in carrying out the proposed project.
2.        Scope of Services.  The engineering consulting firm would provide
the following services:
(a)  Project Unit staffing;
(b) assistance for irrigation works construction and supervision;
and
(c) training of local staff.
2.1       Project Unit Staffing.  The project would be the responsibility of
SODELAC which would manage it initially through a Project Unit created for
that purpose. The Project Unit would be staffed with experienced and well
qualified personnel who would be seconded to SODELAC for the periods indicated
at Schedule 1. The job descriptions and qualifications of these staff are
summarized below:
Project Unit Manager. Experience would be the main criteria for
the selection of a Project Manager, although a formal qualification in agri-
culture and rural engineering would be important. At least 10 years experience
in successful agricultural development work in the field, including develop-
ment-oriented projects, preferably in irrigation and in Africa, would be
required. A high degree of administrative ability, an experience in dealing
with the highest level of Government, and previous involvement in extension
work with small farmer communities vould be necessary.  The general responsi-
bilities of the Project Manager would be to carry out-implementation of the
project and to coordinate project activities with those of Government and
local agencies. Ris duties would include:
(a) coordinating all project activities;
(b)  monitoring the payment of contractors and suppliers;
(c) dealing with all project personnel matters;
(d) coordinating with local authorities, particularly for the
selection of settlers; and



ANNEX 8
Schedule 1
Page 2
(e) designing project staff training.
The Project Manager would report to the President of SODELAC.
Rural Engineer. The Rural Engineer should be a qualified Rural
Engineer. He should have at least 5 years experience in the construction
of irrigation works and should be accustomed to deal with contractors and
suppliers. The responsibilities of the Rural Engineer would be:
(a) analyzing contractors' and suppliers' bids;
(b) supervising and controlling the execution of the irrigation
works built by contractors;
(c) planning and coordinating the execution of the irrigation
works built by force account; and
(d) supervising the operation of the irrigation and drainage
systems.
The Rural Engineer would report to the Project Manager.
Topographer. The Topographer should be a qualified Topographer.
He should have at least 5 years experience in topographic work for the
construction of irrigation works. The responsibilities of the Topographer
would be:
(a) assisting the Rural Engineer in supervising the irrigation
works built by contractors; and
(b) participating in the construction of the irrigation works
built by force account.
The Topographer would report to the Rural Engineer.
General Foreman (Conducteur de Travaux). The General Foreman should
be a very experienced foreman with some knowledge of rural engineering. He
should have at least 10 years experience in the construction of irrigation
works. The responsibilities of the General Foreman would be:
(a) organization, planning and control of the construction of
the irrigation works constructed by force account; and
(b) supervising the timely procurement of equipment and supplies.
The General Foreman would report to the Rural Engineer.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 1
Page 3
Foreman (Chef de Chantier). The Foreman should have at least 5 years
experience in the construction of irrigation works. The responsibilities of
the Foreman would be the direct supervision of the construction crews. He
would report to the General Foreman.
Administration Director. The Administration Director should be a
qualified Accountant with additional training in personnel and business manage-
ment. He should have at least 10 years experience in a senior position in a
large public corporation or commercial company. If possible, he should have
a knowledge of credit procedures and should have worked with farmers or
cooperatives. His main responsibility would be the control of all project
finances on behalf of the Project Manager. Ris duties would include:
(a) establishing a chart of accounts and keeping accounting
records for the construction works and the Project Unit;
(b)  preparing budgets, cash flows, estimates of expenditures;
(c) preparing disbursements applications to project financiers;
(d) internal auditing;
(e) establishing an efficient system of recording agricultural
credit transactions;
(f) responsibility for project stores;
(g) recruiting staff and dealing with personnel problems; and
(h) establishing and supervising the marketing of project crops.
The Administration Director would report to the Project Manager.
Director of Field Operations. The Director of Field Operations
should have at least 5 years experience in organizing and controlling an
agricultural development project and should preferably have commercial
experience in irrigated agriculture. African experience would be important.
He would be responsible for all agricultural aspects of the project and his
duties would specifically include:
(a)  preparing operating field budgets for the Project Unit
rollover commercial cropping program and for smallholder
operations;
(b) organizing seed multiplication in association with IRCT
and the Research Unit at Matafo;
(c) providing mechanized and technical services to smallholders;



ANNEX S
Schedule 1
Page 4
(d) recruiting smallholders in association with the Comite de
Developpement Prefectoral;
(e)  developing proper training programs for smallholders and
staff;
(f)  procuring and providing Earm inputs; and
(g)  storing and marketing all agricultural produce from the
polders.
Tle Director of Field Operations would report directly to the Project Manager.
Comercial Manager. The Commercial Manager should have at least
5 years experience in the commercial management of a mechanized irrigation
scheme, and should have some knowledge of wheat and cotton. The Commercial
Manager would be responsible for the Project Unit commercial operations, i.e.,
for the supervision of up to 400 ha of commercially produced cotton and wheat,
and for the provision of mechanical services to farmers participating in the
project. In particular, he would be responsible for:
(a) hiring labor;
(b) supervising all commercial production activities;
(c) recommending to the Director of Field Operations technical
parameters required for crop production;
(d)  annually assessing farm input requirements; and
(e)  controlling machinery and equipment for both Project Unit
and smallholder operations.
Th.e Commercial Manager would report directly to the Director of Field Operations.
Senior Extension Officer. The Senior Extension Officer should be a
qualified agriculturist and should have at least 5 years in Africa working
with small farmers as an Extension Officer. He should have a full working
knowledge of extension systems and techniques, and would be responsible for
the smallholder development section of the project. In particular, he would
be responsible for:
(a) providing extension and credit services to smallholders;
(b)  training extension staff and project farmers;
(c) liaising with the Commercial Manager for the use of mechanized
equipment;
(d)  defîning settlement areas and settling farmers;



ANNEX 8
Schedule t
Page 5
(e)  preparing budgets for the smallholder development section;
and
(f) liaising with the Research Unit on all agricultural and
social research programs.
He would directly report to the Director of Field Operations.
Chief Mechanic. The Chief Mechanic should have successful experience
in operating and maintaining earth moving machinery, and possibly in operating
and maintaining irrigation systems. His responsibilities would be:
(a) supervising the operation and maintenance of all equipment
and vehicles;
(b) supervising the operation of the pumping stations and
the water distribution system;
(c) establishing a workshop capable of maintaining equipment,
vehicles and pumping stations; and
(d) ordering and maintaining an adequate and suitable supply
of fuel and spare parts.
He would report directly to the Rural Engineer, and after completion of irriga-
tion works, to the Project Manager.
2.2       Assistance for irrigation works construction and supervision.  The
staff provided by the engineering consultants would analyze the bids submitted
by contractors and suppliers, and prepare the construction and supply contracts
for Government signature, according to Government procedures. The engineering
firm would draw upon the resources of its head office when technical problems
arose.
2.3       Training of local staff.  All expatriate staff would be responsible
for training local staff in their own techniques. The engineering consulting
firm may also arrange for training of local staff at its headquarters, or on
other project sites where it operates.
3.        Approval of Staff.  Appointments of individuals and their replace-
ments would be subject to IDA and Government approval. The consulting firm
would provide resumes of the applicants' experience and qualifications.
4.        Payment.  The engineering firm would be paid for seconded staff
during their appointment and leave time, at a rate agreed with Government and
reviewed at the beginning of each calendar year. Table 1 is the appraisal
estimnate for the costs of the engineering services.
5.        Arbitrage.  Government contract with the engineering consulting
service would include an arbitrage clause.



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Organization
Expatriate Staff Salaries
(CFAF '000)
1974                                                                                                      Total
Unit Cost      #    1976              #   1977              #   1978               #   1979                1976-1979
A.  Expatriate Staff Seconded bv Consulting Firm
Project Unit Manager                                                20,100          1    20,100            1   20,100            1   20,100            1   20,100                 80,400
Rural Engineer                                                      19,100                                 1   19,100            1   19,100            4    4,800                 43,000
Topeirapher                                                         12,200          1    12,200            1   12,200           1/4   3,100                                       27,500
General Foreman                                                     14,600          1    14,600            1   14,600           1/4   3,700                                       32,900
Foreman                                                             13,500          1    13,500            1   13,500           1/4   3,400                                       30,400
Field Operations Director                                           14,800                                 1   14,800            1   14,800            1   14,800                 44,400
Commercial Manager                                                  10,100                                                       1   10,100            1   10,100                 20,200
Chief Mechanie                                                       6,900          1     6.900            1    6.900            1    6.900            1    6,900                 27.600
Subtotal                                                                             67,300               101,200                81,200                 56,700               306 400
Contingencies                                                                        15.100                32,6f0                33,700                 21,400               i02,800
Total after Contingencies                                                            82,400               133,800               114,900                 78,100               409,200
Visiting Consultant                                                                       4,200                  2,100                 1,000                                        7,300
Contingencies                                                                           900                   700                   400                                        2000
Total after Contingencies                                                             5,100                 2,800                 1,400                                        9,300
B. Research Staff
Agronomist                                                                                                     13,800                 13,800                13,800                41,400
Agro-Economist                                                                                                 12,200                 12,200                12,200                36,600
Soil Scientist                                                                                                 12.200                12.200                 12.200                36,600
Subtotal                                                                                                   38,200                38,200                38,200                114,600
Contingencies                                                                                              12.300                15.800                 19.300                47,400
Total after Contingencies                                                                                  50,500                54,000                57,500                162,000
O'n 



ANNEX 8
Schedule 2
CHAD)
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Organization
Terms of Reference of the Research Staff
1.        Objective.  The project includes financing of a modest research
program to continue the research work already carried out at the Matafo
Research Station and to explore the use of small lift pumps.
2.        Staffing.  The Station would be staffed by three experienced
researchers. Conditions of employment and appointments of the staff would be
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA.
Agronomist. The Agronomist should have at least 10 years research
work in agronomy under irrigation conditions and should have proven adminis-
trative ability. He would be responsible for:
(a) preparing research budgets and annual reports;
(b) determining in conjunction with the Project Unit and research
institutes such as IRCT the long- and short-term research
priorities and programs to be undertaken at the Matafo Research
Station;
(c) screening promising wheat varieties;
(d) producing breeders seed to support a seed multiplication pro-
gram for project wheat;
(e) conducting research into alternative crops including high
value marketable vegetable crops;
(f) determining mineral deficiencies; and
(g) conducting trials to determine suitable long-term crop
rotations.
He would be responsible to the Project Manager and would liaise with the
Commercial Manager.  He would be responsible for the research staff.
Social Economist. The Socîal Economist should be an experienced
sociologist with African experience.  He would be responsible for:



ANNEX 8
Schedule 2
Page 2
(a)  enumerating smallholder labor requirements;
(b)  determining and evaluating smallholder incomes, and for
making recommendations as to changes required to further
improve farm incomes;
(c)  monitoring SODELAC's commercial operations, evaluating labor
and machinery inputs; and
(d)  evaluating the overall impact of the project on the economic
development of the immediate area to Bol.
The Social Economist would report to the Agronomist.
Pedologist. The Pedologist should have at least 5 years practical
experience in'a similar research station and should have an academic back-
ground in soil or chemic4l sciences. His responsibilities would include:
(a) analyzing soils for mineral deficiencies;
(b)  studying soils under crop cultivation; and
(c)  studying 8oil salinity under small lift pump operations.
The Pedologist would report to the Agronomist.



Table 1
CHAD
LA.KE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Economic Prices
Marketing and Processing Costs
(1973 terms)
Cotton Lint                                  Wheat
Exported via                                 Imported
gFAF/ton               Cameroon                                      via Nigeria
Transport                               Import-Transport
Farm to ginnery            2,400        Fob US-Apapa                  12,300
Apapa-Maiduguri               12,200
Ginnery                                 Maiduguri-N'Djamena            5,600
Expatriate salaries         3,800
Local salaries             4,100          Total                       30,100
Consumables                3,000
Packing                    2,000        Import-Quantity loss           1,500
Insurance                  2,300
(5% of Fob price at
Total                   15,200        CFAF 30,100)
Ginnery to FDB                          Local-Transport
Transport
Bol-Fort Foureau           6,600        Bol-D'Djamena                 (4,900)
Fort Foureau-Ngaoundere   10,200         quantity loss                  (300)
Ngaoundere                 1,200        (1% of Fob price
Ngaoundere-Douala          5,600        at CFAF 30,100)
Insurance                    500
Transit                    2,200        Fob US to Farm-gate           26,400
Total                   26,300
Fob to Cif Eurore          14,000
Europe
Selling expenses           1,200
CFDT fee                   2,000
Total                    3,200
Farm-gate to Europe       61,100
Note; Marketing and Processing Costs (CFAF/ton)
Cotton Lint            Wheat
1974 terms                               32,000
1975 terms          82,200               35,500
1976 terms          89,400               38,600
1977 terms          96,600               41,700



CHAD.
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Econ2me  PricesA
Forecasted. Farm Gate Economic Prices
(1973 Terms)
Cotton lint                              _                                __________
01F Europe                   Farm-gate          FOB Gulf Port                     Farm-gate
Chad                                             Import
Mexican s/m/i/16  Premiumn                                             Substitution
Year                  USe/lb.           O?UY/ton 1.          _                  USiL.FQB/ton    CFAF/ton
1976                    44        218,300   10,000          167,200                 116             26,100          52,500
1977                    4h        218,300   10,000          167,200                 113             25,400          51,300
1978                    43        213,300   10,000          162,200                 112             25,200          51,600
1979                    h3        213,300   10,000          162,200                 110             2h,800          51,200
1980                    43        213,300   10,000.         162,2Q0                 112             25,200          51,600
1985                    43        213,300   10,000          162,200                 115             25,900          52,300
1/  US$1   CFAF 225
2/  Premium comprising - Length Premium 1-3/32 versus 1-1/16         CFAF 8/kg
- Hand Harvest Premium - standard - O -       CFAF 2/kg
CFAF 10/kg
P t



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
Capital Recovery Index
--------------------------------- Goverrment -----------------------------------------------------                     Consolidated Fee
10%
Discount                  Capital                    Operating                  Total Capital Investment
Factors                   Investment 1/              Expenses 1/                and Operating Expenses
Constant         Present               Constant         Present
termse          value @ 10%            termc            value @ 10%
Year l                               0.909,090                  681,700                      13,100                    694,800         631,600
Year 2                               0.826,446                   933,200                     65,200                    998,400         825,100
Year 3                               0.751,315                   178,800                     99,900                    278,700          209,400                39,000           29,300
Year 4                               0,683,013                   222,400                    178,200                    400,600          273,600                65,000           44,400
Year 5                               0.620,921                                              146,400                    146,400           90,900                97,600           60,600
Year 6                               0,564,474                                              116,900                    116,900           66,000               149,600           84,400
Year 7                               0.513,158                                               98,000                     98,000           50,300               149,600           76,800
Year 8 through Year 50               5.046,395                                               93,900                     93,900         473,900                149,600          754,900
Total         2,620,800                Total          1,050,400
Capital Recovery Index  1,050,400  =  40%
2,620,800
1/ Including physical contingencies but exéluding price contingencies.
>~:



CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
Capital Recovery Index including all Government Benefits
O.o... . GvrenBnfis................Beeis... ....  e...... e...*... ............. e.
10%            Farmers                      COrONTCIiD                     Present
Discount       Consolidated      Cottot        Operating                        Value
Factors           Fee            Tax&t          Incom e      Total           i 10%
Year 1                   0,909,090
Year 2                    0.826,446                  -      1,500              1,50o     3,000             2,500
0.751,315              39,000    14,300             13,800    67,100            50,400
Year 4                   0.683,013               65,000    29,200             28,200   122,400            83,600
Year 5                   0.620,921               97,600   46,200             44,600   188,400            117,000
Year 6                   o.564,474              149,600    5o,4oo            44,600   244,600            138,100
Year 7                   0.513,158              149,600    50,400            48,800   248,800            127,700
Year 8 through 50         5.o46,395             149,600    50,400             48,800   248,800         1,255,500
Total                   1,774,800
Capital Recovery Index including all Government Benefits             1,774,800    = 68%
2-,620-80-0
~~~~~~~~00 ~ ~    ~      ~      ( 
2/ CFAF 17/kg of seed cotton.
/ CFAF L)4,000/ton of lint.



CIAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
Average        Average
1982-          1986-
(CFAF '000)                    1976           1977          1978          1979          1980           1981          1985            1995
A. Inflows
SODELAC Project Unit Debt Repayment                                                               31,200        56,700          60,800       64,400           64,400
Cotontchad Operating Income I/                                          1.500       13,800        28.200        44.600         44.600        48.800          48.800
Total Inflows                                               1,500       13,800.       59,400       101,300         105,400       113,200         113,200
B. Outflows
IDA Service Charge                                      4,000           7,000        8,000         9,000         9,000           9,000         9,000           8,500
Amortization                                                                                                                                             11,300
AFDF Service Charge 2/                                  4,000           7,000        8,000         9,000         9,000           9,000         9,000           8,500
Amortization                                                                                                                                             11,300
Total Outflows                              8,000          14,000       16,000        18,000         18,000         18,000        18,000          39,600
l/  @ CFAF 44,000 per ton of Lint Based on Moundou Income Statements and Payment of CFAF 53,000/Ton for Project Cotton.
2/  Terms assumed to be the same as for IDA.



CHAD
CEAD POLDERS PRWECT
Ecpnotdc CaIculations
1976             1977             1978              1979             1989              1981             1982              1983
A,.  BeneEits
Cr-p Productien £tonsS
Seed Cotton -0                                                                             715            1,715             2,715            2,965             2,965            2,965
l.int                                                                      J30             270              640             1,020            1,110             1,110            1,110
Whest                                                                       80           1,330            2,230             2,955            2,955             2,955            2,955
Eçoononi Price <fcAF/TonI
Lint                                                                  167,200         162,200           162,200          162,200           162,200          162,200           162,200
Wheat                                                                  51,800           51,600           51,200            51,600           51,800            52,000           52,200
Economiîc Benefîtu (CFAF 000)
Lint                                                                    5,000          43,800           103,800          165,400           180,000          180,000           180,000
lAheat                                                                  4.1010         68.600           119.300           152,500     ~    153.100    ~     153.700             4,o
lconomîc îenEfit                                                    '     ,49          12 64 600        223,100          317,900          533,100           333,700           334,300
h.ado. Peirie Fotor 1/                                                  1,830           22.500           44.600            63,600           66.600           66,700            66,900
Total Econo..in Benefit.                                            10,900         134,900           267,700          381,500           399,700          400,400          401,200
rrisation Works Construction
1973 Ter-                                        333,500             45,900          89,300
Shadçv Price Factor 2/                             52,000             7,200          14,000
Irigat.ton Wotk.  -uperolnîcn  and Opçration
1973 Teras                                         38,200            28,700          13,000             2,600            3,000             3,000            3,000             3,000
Shadow Price Factor 3/                              6,300             4,800           2,200               400               500              500              500               500
Far. Develop.ient
1973 Term.                                         18,300            61,100          65,800            84,800           54,400            32,000           12,600             9,400
Shadow Price Factor 4/                              3,000             9,900          10,700            13,700            8,800             5,200            2,000             1,500
Settlers - Equipm,ent & Seasonal Credit
1973 Tera'                                                                           14,600           23,700            36,400           51.500            62,000            55,800
Shadow Prite Factor 5/                                                                2,400             3,900            6,000             8.400           10,200             9,200
Settler.  Foregooe Ic-me 6/
1973  Ters.                                                                           1,900             3,100            4,600             7,100            7,100             7,100
Pumping &                faintenance o  Irrigatio- Syste.
1973 Terms                                                                           20,000           21,000            21,0P0           21,800            26,500           26,500
Shadow Price Fuctor 7/                                                                4,000            4,200             4,200            4,400             5,300             5,300
Project Unit Overbead
1973 Ter=.                                        57,100             60,800          61,200           67,000            22,100           21,900            21,900           21,900
Shadow Price Factor 8/                              9,500            10.100          10.200           11,100             3,700            3.600             3,600             3.600
Total Econi1mic Cost before
Physical Continge.cies                       517,905           228,500          309,300          235,500          164,700           153,400           154,700          143,800
Physicl Contingencies                              56,700             18,400          25,300           10,200                -                  -               -
-ota1 Econo..ic Copts       .584.600                                  246,900         334600           245,700           164700           13.400            154.7            1463.00
I/ 1007 -f 204.
2/  78vf of 207.
3/  837 nf 207.
3/  8137 of 20i.
5/  827.  f 207?.
6/ Ass,--es  the los. of tradition-l irriggt-on 100005e   AnneX:  5~41, 2
/  807 o! 20;
8/  3-/ of 20'



ANNEX 11
Table 2
CHAD
LAKE CHAD POLDERS PROJECT
ECONOMIC CALCULATIONS
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1. Base case          16.75%
2. Sensitivity
Costs unchanged - Benefits      -50%         1.05%
-25%       1o.15%
-10%       14.25%
+10%       19.05%
+25%       22.45%
+50%       27.65%
Benefits unchanged - Costs       -50%       36.95%
-25%       24.15%
-10%       19.35%
+10%       14.45%
+25%       11.55%
+5o%        7.55%
3.  Without shadow-pricing of foreign exchange = 16.01%
4. Without physical contingency = 18.35%
5. Without the commercial agricultural section = 12.27%






22"                             ~~~CHAD
:                       N             fis                0            .                        LAKE  CHAD
j'.                  POLDERS  PROJECT
.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISAL REPORT                                                                                   A w_ic1
N   i;SŽ            LAKE AREA
e5 ~ -; fECz                                                                                   ............ j:; iPREFECTURE BOUND)ARIES
- - - - - -SUB-PREFECTURE B OUND ARIES                                                                                    ..................
Po»>   PREFECTURE HEADCUARTERS                                                                                                  Ng /  i
E.                                .                              -      INTERNATIONAL  BOUNOARIES 0041-i                                                 "t
i             ""~~~-27 9-- CONTOURS N METERS           MAP                                                                        44N4.44
La I:t`,t';2                                               4-a ;'i: 'Ci;i  |   U}  \  i:  :   FZ    AIRPORT  M P       ='CatR*
::1TTVl  ç,;yR ;.::- ;:W:BS::1ES SA2XUSS=NA  /'   Laleau      l                        ! ;t                         ALLWEATHER ROADS U;RtljL ,:_X! <E,L  ;,,;'{: AL  EATER R-D
I                                                               t                     -    $ ;; : æ :20  |  V ! :D; . MAIl iTlROADE A S                 e*
j;; T'a >                                                 2       f         r            -;  1/t 1 oFLd it;uiÇ@ SECONDARY  ROADS                                                                                > S1      ;      l(".jflR3;pi? tuel;  "< )0lX :saSO Ry
j              ;             :'  9 / '  t::::SEASONAL ROADS ;
. ........ ......  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      iMAIN RC'ÀDS
z»;ÇS  ;fL 21 P /   `                              S    ,                _0@;.:;l'             _        SECONDARY  ROADU                       ;;rr7 2  $~ Ré Ef ;,gte;HN J\2gr{2rA  ECONDAY-ROAD
4  :D0;: ::2/  ,s B i LT I N,E  oI >>  -----                   OTHER ROADSU
; $ S ( N#oqK A  N  E." M           ,                  o-,d., _° t      =  | >fi fe°
Âs . ~~L-                 a            °  B A T,'H A                                                                                                                                                                             N sg  u°uJjF g-";;' ' ;if .; ' ;  NDJAMENA
B                      ; ?                                  t'>w                                                                                                                                                 Moîsavet     To     12_  > oBb9U-DPIé   t-r7`'   '%  ti=S,  \Xf:  ;iR  SP;E; S4 dE u A?ç250i; ]SvJ p"4{pR  9 1 v2
Y~ ~~~~~~~~ >                  oo  A>,>
'~AG UIR I.......
T~~~~~~~~
0_-,t, i;ÇN  izBn  duso_ ",'  SALAMAT (                                                                                                               e
RD:  D C  e/ O    ANDJtLE " '-oaty        . »+M,h       o<  S '                                                            4E M'' E  \et  f   4,' -i'.A; ', =$' <!/ ;/'.  >'
jSbbav>" K                                                                                                                                              .                                                                     at
o;S; f1 L ;-niE">  2OGCNE" s  |   Size      rÉ)5iin6;!l  nU  X 0 S    dt S9S:I;                 ES; fiiE=;-;2ilrW   fX  a o          >             4                        f
1 SaD 4eL         ApSCj   ;Xr/  -    Rd________________do_d_________________________r 16






IBRD 11447
MARCH  1975
0  st                  >\   . -            `+ YLAKE CHAD
r»                                     ,/ . ` .` f - i< -- >POLDERS PROJECT
APPRAI5$~L REPORT
>u  0xj `  `    :    ,/        `:           ` "`    -         `              `                       PROJECT  AREA
:k.    N      "-  `   .                                  .-                                               Z   5 Driqd Polder
PoIcler to be Dried
: - \ = .` - X4 4 -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dunes
t ;                    i-                                                                        -. çt- -   Internotional Boundories (Inset)
N
t.-  4 ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     T
N_. n%R    t    t                           ..           .        4x.-    
:j.,-.-nQ,  , j                  '            '< t ! 
B0t   >S  t       . s   ,           . ! w         w    .~~~~~~~~17; Ti, 4";:L"`.ts`1 lilil 1S`i/
,:  L 18 YA   20'
: ~ ~    ~    ~    I      "1  '-,                                                            O '    0,-0 
- .ILOMETERS
Y3kouc O'                                                                                               N
'1                                        -.      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'
0                                                                                                      N I G   R               
Bogourmi                                                                               t ;  
":,    C   H   A   D
Kotokororn 
O~~~~~~ ~ .J -41r                                                                                                               1_A   
20'
`  ~ ~   ~    .           ` s   4 r    ~~NI G- R IA  ? P N D;cme" a
0 5                             10                            `e                                    .      s                         iK_loJ -)
KlLO,'0ETERS   0                      ,, "_,          -  r.         z~~~~~~~CAMERO14  f,; 'AFRICAN REÇ'UBIC






IBRD 11448
CHAD                                                   - _                                  20,MaRcH
LAKE CHAD                                                                                     L -  B Y A
POLDERS PROJECT, APPRAISAL REPORT                          =    rAeX:               ` 
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION NETWORKS                             r                                 -?b- \  20,-
MASTER PLAN                                                 > > _   -
éM                               DI               j    C H  c D
f~~~~ -             -    i   . w   _ r4 r'P        -                 §-                      .rY)   r-  3r/ , Doelo4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
%  Eg>  BX<7<-                     -               .               -             <            -~  P l   n c   r  D
Limit of Irrigation Perimeters
0 R T'n                                                                         MoirA Droinage Collectors and Main Inside Track
Planned Tracks
r  -  -       -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Trocks
- Dikes
~~ ~4~'  'b  Water Intake Works
A  Pumping Stations
Loke
E ~Dunes
-Z        a~  ~~~~~ Villages
- Interniational Boundoiries (Inset)



