CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 592 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lake Chad Polders Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 592 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Lake Chad Polders Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 1975, between the REPUBLIC OF
CHAD (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEFiNT
ASSOCIATION (hercinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Republic of France, the
African Development Fund (hereinafter called AFDF), the United States Agency
for International Development (hereinafter called USAID) and the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
(B)   The Republic of' France intends to assist in the financing of Parts 1,
II and III of the Project;
(C)   AFDF intends to assist in the fiinancing of Parts I and IV of the Project;
(D)   USAID intends to assist in the financing of Part V of' the Project;
(E)   The Project will be carried out by SODFLAC with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
SODELAC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(F)   The Association is willing, on the basis inter edia of' the foregoing,
to make the Credit availahle upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SOD[LAC-
NOW THlEREPFOR' the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements c/t the
Association, dated March I5, 1974, with the same f'or'ce and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of' the Association heing hereinufter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SODELAC" means Socifte de Developpement du Lac, a Societe de
Developpeinent of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Orconnance No. 23/PR/CGP/DPD of August 5, 1967;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and SODELAC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SODELAC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time:
(d)   "Francs CFA" and "CFAF" mean francs in the currency of the
Borrower;
(e)   "BDT" means the Banque de De'veloppoment cu Tehad, established
under Ordonnance No. I of the Borrower dated January 13, 1962;
(f)   "Revolving Fund" means the fund to be established and operated by
BDT in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement; and
(g)   "Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall


﻿5
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Revolving Fund an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower not exceeding $400,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of BDT, further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Revolving Fund such amounts as shall be required to reimburse BDT for payments
made out of the Revolving Fund for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under the Development Credit Agreement but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount on deposit in the
Revolving Fund as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $400,000.
(c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no further deposit shall be made to
the Revolving Fund and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account
when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account pursua nt
to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, together with the amount of' any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of $4,600,000.
(d )  The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of' paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $4,000,000, if and only to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all payments were made by BIDT out of the Revolving
Fu nd for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from  the Credit Account.
(e)   If the Association shall have determined that payments have been made
by BDT out of' the Revolving Funld for expenditures not eligible for withdrawal
from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice froni the Association,
deposit in the Revolving Fund an amount equal to the aniount of such paynients.
Section 2.03. Fxcept as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of' the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04, The Closing Date shall be )eceniber 31, 1980 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1986 and ending November 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2 ) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a revolving fund
within BDT and shall cause BDT to credit and debit such fund in accordance
with the following provisions:
(a)   There shall be credited to the Revolving Fund: (i) such amounts as
shall from time to time be withdrawn from  the Credit Account and deposited
in the Revolving Fund by the Association pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) such amounts as shall be deposited by the Borrower
in the Revolving Fund in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement.
(b)   Amounts deposited in the Revolving Fund pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be used only to make payrnents for expenditures eligible for
withdrawal from the Credit Account.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the 3orrower shall cause
SODELAC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other CSOLrCeS, necessary
or appropriate to enable SODELAC to perform such obligations.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory
to the Association, relend to SODELAC the proceeds of the Credit.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures, including the
enactment of a decree upon terms substantially similar to those set forth in the
draft thereof furnished by the Borrower to the Association, for the purposes of
granting to SODELAC the sole right to organize the settlement of farmers on polder
lands newly developed under the Project, including inter alia the right to lease
state-owned lands.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall promptly take all action required on its
part in order to enable SODELAC to establish a wheat price formula in accordance
with Section 2.10(b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, as soon as possible after the submission
to it by SODELAC of the consultant's recommendations referred to in Section
3.03(b) of the Project Agreement, enter into consultations with the Association
for the purpose of establishing a timetable for the implementation of said
recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall provide to SODELAC, promptly as needed,
the funds required by SODELAC to cover the cost of services which SODELAC
shall provide, at the request of the Borrower, to farmers not included in the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall promptly carry out an epidemiological
study of the area to be developed under the Project, for the purpose of determining
the extent to which schistosomiasis and other diseases affect the population in
said area.
(b)   Upon completion of such study, the Borrower shall review the results
thereof with the Association in order to determine the steps to be taken for the
control of said diseases.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   SODELAC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of SODELAC under the Project Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SODELAC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c)   The Borrower's Ordonnance No. 22/PR/CGP/DPD of August 5, 1967,
and SODELAC's Statutes, dated September 6, 1967, shall, without prior
consultation with the Association, have been amended (except to the extent
provided for in Section 3.02 of this Agreement), suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to (i) substantially alter the organization, powers and
responsibilities of SODELAC or (ii) materially or substantially affect the ability
of SODELAC to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement;
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for th dissolution or disestablishment of SODELAC or for the
suspension of its operations; and
(e)(i)      Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
French, AFDF and USAID grant or loan for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreements
providing therefor, or
(B)   the AFDF loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any


﻿9
of its obligations under such agreements, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower or to SODELAC
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and
SODELAC under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (e)(i)(1) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of SODELAC have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the participations in the financing of the Project to be provided by
the French Republic and by AFDF have been approved by the French Republic
and by AFDF, respectively;
(c)   the long-term agreements referred to in Sections 2. 10(a) and 2. 11(a)
of the Project Agreement have been concluded;
(d)   the decree referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall have
been enacted and published;
(e)   the Manager of the Project Unit referred to in paragraph I of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement has been appointed; and


﻿10
(f)   the Borrower has made available to SODELAC (i) the balance of its
contribution to the capital of SODELAC amounting to CFAF70 million and (ii)
the amounts budgeted in favor of SODELAC for the years 1973 and 1974
amounting to CFAF54 million.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed on behalf of, SODELAC, and is legally binding upon SODELAC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly entered into by
the Borrower and SODELAC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
SODELAC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 26, 1976, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances et du Plan
Bofte Postale 286
N'Djanena, Republic of Chad


﻿11
Cable address:
Ministere Finances
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ BawoyCu Alingue
Authorizeci Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Xavier de la Renaudiere
Director, CountrY Programs Deparlment
Western Aftica Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Cement, equipment,             1,300,000            71%
vehicles and
chemicals
(2)   Operating expenses               800,000            71%
and local staff
salaries
(3)   Technical assis-               1,100,000            71%
tance under Part
11(b) of the Pro-
ject
(4)   Consulting services              100,000            71%
under Part 11(a) of
the Project, audit,
and scholarships
under Part II(b) of
the Project
(5)   Unallocated                    1,700,000
TOTAL         5,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on


﻿13
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the terr,ory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)   in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
provided, however, that withdrawals may be made under Categories (2) and (3)
prior to such date but after October 1, 1975 in an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $100,000; or
(b)   under Category (2) above until the Association shall have approved
the particular expenses and salaries to be financed pursuant to the request for
withdrawal.
4.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
io any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the first phase of a program of irrigated agricultural
development using the waters of Lake Chad. It consists of the following parts:
Part I:     (a)   Rehabilitation and completion of the irrigation and drainage
networks of the Guini polder, representing a net cultivable area
of about 370 ha.
(b)   Construction of the irrigation and drainage networks of the
Berim polder, representing a net cultivable area of about 800 ha.
Part J7:    (a)   The    provision  of   technical  assistance  for  SODELAC's
reorganization (about 10 man-months of expert services).
(b)   The provision of staff to the Project Unit within SODELAC for
a period of about four years (about 336 man-months) and of
scholarships for counterpart training.
Part III:   (a)   The full operation of all newly developed land for an initial
period of twelve-months in order to facilitate subsequent farmer
settlements and th,e carrying out of the basic cultivations for
the following period of twelve-months, during which farmer
settlements will take place.
(b)   The provision of a general operational framework and of specific
services to the forers taking up cultivation of the newly
developed land, suJtch services to include, inter alia, training,
agricultural credit and marketing assistance.
Part IV:    The construction of three agricultural service centers and of about
sixteen houses for Project staff.
Part V:     The expansion of the program of adaptive agricultural research at the
Matafo Research Station by providing about 108 man-months of
research staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


