CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 592 CD
Project Agreement
(Lake Chad Polders Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU LAC
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU LAC (hereinafter called SODELAC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Chad (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that SODELAC agree to uindertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to SODELAC the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement, in
accordance with Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS SODELAC, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SODELAC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, irrigation, agricultural and
engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) For the purpose of day-to-day management and
coordination in carrying out the Project, SODELAC shall establish the Project Unit,
with such organization, responsibilities, power and staff as are specified in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, SODELAC and the Association.
(b)   Until the consultant's recommendations referred to in Section 3.03(b)
of this Agreement, and the timetable for their implementation, shall have been
approved by the Borrower and the Association, the Project Unit shall remain
administratively and financially independent from SODELAC's other activities.
(c)   After the completion of the Project, the Project Unit's responsibilities
shall be transferred to SODELAC.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist SODELAC (i) in analyzing bids for the
Project and in supervising the construction of irrigation works under the Project;
(ii) in training local counterparts; and (iii) in providing, under Part 11(b) of the
Project, the staff required by the Project Unit for the functions set forth in
paragraph 1, of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, SODELAC shall select an engineering
and agricultural consulting company acceptable to the Association to provide
experts to be employed upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist SODELAC in carrying out Part V of the Project,
SODELAC     shall employ experts who qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) SODELAC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
SODELAC to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SODELAC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) SODELAC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   SODELAC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents'
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent "n it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   SODELAC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
SODELAC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) SODELAC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   SODELAC shall promptly inform      the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of' the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SODELAC
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2,08. In organizing the settlement of farmers on the newly developed
polder lands, SODELAC shall:
(a)   seek the Association's approval prior to allotting an area of more than
two hectares to any farming family; and
(b)   make such allotments to farmers on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.09. SODELAC shall provide agricultural credit to farmers under
Part 111(b) of the Project for the purpose, inter alia, of purchasing farm inputs


﻿6
and equipment, under procedures and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.10. (a) In order to ensure adequate marketing for wheat produced
by the farmers under the Project, SODELAC shall, on behalf of said farmers, enter
into a long-term agreement with the company Grands Moulins diu Tchad (hereinafter
called GMT) providing that GMT shall purchase all wheat marketed by aforesaid
farmers at a price based on a formula to be established pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section.
(b)   SODELAC shall take all steps required on its part for the establishment,
in agreement with GMT and not later than December 31, 1976, or such later date
as the Association may agree, of a wheat price formula which shall (i) reflect the
current economic value of the wheat produced on the newly developed lands, taking
into account GMr's milling costs; and (ii) be acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.11. (a) In order to ensure adequate marketing for cotton produced
by the farmers under the Project, SODELAC shall, on behalf of said farmers, enter
into a long-term agreement with Societe Cotonnie-re du Tchad (hereinafter called
COTONTCHAD) providing that COTONTCHAD shall purchase all cotton marketed
by aforesaid farmers at a price determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of     r
this Section.
(b)   The price to be paid by COTONTCHAD for cotton produced under
the Project shall be at a level acceptable to the Association and shall at all times
(i) be equivalent to prices applicable to rainfed short staple cotton augmented by
reasonable premiums for products with longer staple and of better quality and
adjusted to take account of the low transportation costs due to the ginnery's
proximity; and (ii) be consistent with the current world market price of' cotton.
Section 2.12. SODELAC shall pay to farmers under the Project for their
wheat and cotton the prices determined as specified in Sections 2.10 and 2.11
of this Agreement without deduction other than for the cost of transportation
of such wheat and cotton and the cost-recovery charges referred to in Section
4.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SODELAC
Section 3.01. (a) SODELAC shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate


﻿7
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and irrigation practices and under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management and staff.
(b)   SODELAC     shall adequately maintain the works, installations and
equipment used in its operations and promptly make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, irrigation and agricultural
practices.
(c)   SODELAC shall at all times take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights which are necessary or useful
for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.02. SODELAC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist SODELAC in its reorganization under
Part 11(a) of the Project, SODELAC shall within six months after the Effective
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, employ a consultant
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)   SODELAC shall, not later than one year after the appointment of
the consultant referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, submit said consultant's
recommendations to the Borrower and the Association for their review in order
to enable the Borrower, the Association and SODELAC to establish, in consultation
with each other, a timetable for the implementation of said recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SODELAC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   SODELAC shall maintain, or shall cause the Project Unit to maintain,
separate accounts for the Project Unit.
Section 4,02. SODELAC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), as


﻿8
well as those of the Project Unit, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SODELAC and
the Project Unit and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. In accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
SODELAC shall take all necessary measures to collect annually from the farmers
under the Project beginning not later than twelve months after the settlement of
any such farmers, a consolidated cost-recovery charge at a level (i) initially set
provisionally at CFAF130,000 per hectare; (ii) to be acceptable at all times to
the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) to be reviewed annually by the
Borrower, the Association and SODELAC until a mutually satisfactory formula
for determining such charge shall have been established.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SODELAC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms: or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SODELAC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under Article VI of the
General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SODELAC:
Soci'dt de Developpement du Lac
P. 0. Box 782
N'Diamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
SODELAC
N'Djamena
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf
of SODELAC may be taken or executed by SODELAC or such other person or
persons as SODELAC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SODELAC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons


﻿10
who will, on behalf of SODELAC, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by SODELAC pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Xavier de la Renaudiere
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU LAC
By /s / B. Alingue
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Procurement of Goods
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, equipment, cement, vehicles and
chemicals shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement- under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding,
2.    Contracts shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement consistent with
appropriate technical standards and procurement practices.
3.    With respect to any contract for individual items of equipment, cement,
vehicles and chemicals or any bulk contract for such items estimated to cost less
than S25,000, SODELAC may, up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, award such contracts on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment, cement, vehicles and chemicals
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, SODELAC shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SODELAC shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the narie of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,


﻿12
a detailed report by the Project Unit on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform SODELAC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids wer, asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, SODELAC shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SODELAC and state the reascns for such determination.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Project Unit Staff and Responsibilities
1.    Staffing
The Project Unit shall consist of the following staff:
(a)   a Project Unit Manager
(b)   a Director of Field Operations
(c)   a Rural Engineer
(d)   a Chief Mechanic
(e)   a Topographer
(f)   a Director of Administration and Marketing
(g)   a Manager of Mechanized Agricultural Section
(h)   a Senior Extension Officer
(i)   a General Foreman
(j)   a Foreman
2.    Responsibilities
(a)   The Project Unit Manager shall be responsiWle, inter alia, for the
following, under the authority of SODELAC's President Directeur General:
(i)         coordination of all Project activities;
(ii)        monitoring payments to contractors and suppliers;
(iii)       all Project personnel matters;
(iv)        coordination with local authorities, particularly with respect to
the selection of settlers; and


﻿14
(v)         design and implementation of training programs for local staff
assigned to the Project.
(b)   The Director of Field Operations shall, under the authority of the
Project Manager, be responsible for all agricultural aspects of the Project, including,
inter alia, the following:
(i)         preparation of operating field budgets for the Project Unit's
rollover commercial cropping program and for smallholder
operations;
(ii)        organization of seed multiplication in association with the
Institute for Cotton and Textile Research and the Research Unit
at Matafo;
(iii)       provision of mechanical and technical services for smallholders;
(iv)        selection of smallholders in association with the Comite de
D'veloppement Prdfectoral;
(v)         preparation of adequate training programs for smallholders and
staff assigned to the Project;
(vi)        arrangements for the procurement and distribution of farm
inputs; and
(vii)       arrangements for the storage and marketing of all agricultural
products from the newly developed polders.
(c)   The Rural Engineer shall be responsible for the following, under the
authority of the Project Manager:
(i)         necessary arrangements for analyzing bids from    and awarding
contracts to contractors and suppliers;
(ii)        supervision and control of the execution of the irrigation works
by contractors;
(iii)        planning and coordination of the execution of the irrigation
works under force account; and
(iv)        supervision of the operation of the irrigation and drainage
systems.


﻿15
(d)   The Chief Mechanic shall be responsible for the following, under the
authority, until the irrigation works are completed, of the Rural Engineer, and
thereafter of the Project Manager:
(i)         supervision of the operation and maintenance of all equipment
and vehicles;
(ii)        supervision of the operation of the pumping stations and the
water distribution system;
(iii)       operation   of a workshop     with  the capacity   to  maintain
equipment, vehicles and pumping stations; and
(iv)        arrangements for the maintenance of an adequate supply of fuel
and spare parts.
(e)   The Topographer shall be responsible for the following under the
authority of the Rural Engineer:
(i)         assistance to the Rural Engineer in the supervision of the
irrigation works by contractors; and
(ii)        participation in the execution of the irrigation works under force
account.
(f)   The Director of Administration      and Marketing shall, under the
authority of the Project Manager, be responsible for controlling all financial matters
with respect to the Project, including, inter alia, the following:
(i)         drawing up a chart of accounts and keeping accounting records
for the construction works and the Project Unit;
(ii)        preparation of budgets, cash flows and estimates of expenditures;
(iii)       preparation of withdrawal applications to the various sources of
finance for the Project;
(iv)        internal auditing;
(v)         establishment of an efficient system  of recording agricultural
credit transactions;
(vi)        responsibility for project stores;


﻿16
(vii)       recruitment of staff and handling of personnel problems; and
(viii)      organization and supervision of the marketing of project crops.
(g)   The Manager of the Mechanized Agricultural Se-tion shall, under the
authority of the Director of Field Operations, be responsible for the supervision
of the production of cotton and wheat on up to 400 ha of land and the provision
of mechanical services to farmers under the Project. His responsibilities will
specifically include the following:
(i)         hiring labor;
(ii)        supervision of all mechanized production activities;
(iii)       recommending to the Director of Field Operations technical
parameters requir,d for crop production;
(iv)        annual assessment of farm input requirements; and
(v)         control of machinery and equipment for both Project Unit and
smallholder operations.
(h)   The Senior Extension Officer shall, inder the authority of the Director
of Field Operations, be responsible for smallholder development, including, inter
alia, the following:
(i)         provision of extension and credit services to smallholders;
(ii)        training of extension staff and project farmers;
(iii)       liaising with the Commercial Manager for the use of mechanized
equipment;
(iv)        initiation of procedures for defining settlement areas and settling
farmers;
(v)         preparation of budgets for the smalliholder development; and
(vi)        liaison with the research unit at Matafo on all agricultural and
social research programs.
(i)   The General Foreman (Conclucteur c/e Tra)'aux) shall be responsible
for the following under the authority of the Rural Engineer:


﻿17
(i)         organization, planning and control of the execution of irrigation
works under force account; and
(ii)        supervision of timely procurement of equipment and supplies.
(j)   The Foreman shall, under the authority of the General Foreman,
supervise construction crews.


