Z- Av       V '7 - [1S'k
I-A/   è j t d    jJ
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ON1LY
MICPN()F 4(,H (,()FtY
Rep)ort N,). :1 0395-BR      Type:  (SAIV
Tit-le:   STATE HIGHTWAYS MANAGEMENT PP0C1
Auitho r:  TEIJIXTE    J                                                   Report No. 10395-BR
Ext :392'I-, Pic,rr:T71 4F, r-pt. : LA 1T N
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1992
LAI Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiros (Cr$)
US$1       = Cr$ 5,697.40 (September 15, 1992)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC           - Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
BNDES        - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econbmico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU         - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
DER          - Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem
State Roads Department
DER-AL       - Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Alagoas
Alagoas State Roads Department
DER-SC       - Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Santa Catarina
Santa Catarina State Roads Department
DNER         - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagern
National Roads Department
EBTU         - Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
FEPASA       - Ferrovia Paulista S.A.
Sao Paulo State Railways
GEIPOT       - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
MT           - Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
RFFSA        - Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
Federal Railways
SNT          - Secretaria Nacional dos Transportes
National Transport Secretariat
ERR/TIR      - Economic Rate of Return/Taxa Interna de Retorno
OM           - Operational Manual
PMS          - Pavement Management System



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
ffATE HIGHWAY MANAGEIMENTROJC
STAFF APAL =
Table gf Contents
Loan and Project Summary          ............................................  (i)
I.  THE TRANSPORSET O S                 .............................................  I
A. Overview of the Transport System              1................................... 
B. The Transport Sector in the Economy             ..................................  2
C. The Institutional and Policy Framework  ................................  2
D. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy ..................................  3
H. THEROADS SI..UBSOR.........................                                                        S
A. Road Transport in the in the Economy ..............................    5
B. The Road Transport kdustry ...                                                                 S
C. The Road Networks, Maintenance Condiitin and Policies ..                                       6
D. Subsector Administradon, Decentralizaton  ..............................  9
E. Highway Financing .............................................. 9
F. State Road Agencies, Organization and Management  .......................  10
G. Environmental Control ..............               ............................   12
m.      ERJEr             ................................................   13
A. Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale ...............................   13
B. Project Description  .      ...........................................   14
C. Project Cost and Financing  ...........             ............................   17
D. Project Environmental Impact and Economic Evaluation .....................  18
E. Project Risks . ...............................................   18
IV. PROJECT        LEUENTATION  .....................................   19
A. Insfftutional Responsibiliffes  ...........           ............................   19
B. Organizational Arrangements   .....................................   19
C. hmplementadon Programs ............                 ............................  20
D. Procurement Arrangements ........................................  22
E. Disbursement, Account and Audit Arrangements ..........................  23
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan ....................................   24
V.  AGREEMENS AND RECOMMENDATONS ............................  25
Mhis report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during December 1991.
The mission comprised Messrs. Jacques Cellier (Task Manager, LA1IN), Jean Claude Sallier (Senior
Highway Engineer, LA2MX)), Paul Autret (Pavement Management Consultant), Vitor Bellia
(Evironment Consultant) and Rafael Perez (Organization Consultant). Mr. Gerard Liautaud (Highway
Engineer, LAIIN) contributed to the report. Ms. Joy Obialor provided admistrative s.upport. Messrs.
Asif Faiz, Vahram Nercissiantz, and Armeane Choksi are respectively the managing Division Chief,
Ptoject Adviser, and Departnent Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI. ANNEXES
1. Supprting Tables:
1. Brazil's Transportation Expenditures by Mode .......               .................  27
2. Brazil's Motor Vehicle Fleet ...................................   28
3. Evolution of National and Transportation Aggregates ....................  29
4. Characteristics of Brazil's State Road Networks  .......................  30
5. BrazUl's Road User Charges  . ^ .............               ....................   31
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  .........                ....................   32
2. Alagoas State Network, Agency and Program   .........................  33
3. Alagoas Subproject Description, Costs and Financing ......................  39
4. Alagoas Subproject Economic Analysis  .........                 .....................  45
5. Alagoas Subprojmct Implementation ............                 ....................  48
6. Santa Catarina State Network, Agency and Program   .....................  53
7. Santa Catarina Subproject Descripticn, Costs and Financing  ................  59
8. Santa Catarina Subproject Economic Analysis  .........................  65
9. Santa Catarina Subproject Implementation .........                ...................  68
10. Monitoring and Supervision Plan  ............... ..................  73
11. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .......              ..........   75
MM: IBRD No. 23773: Brazil - State Highway Management Project



NRZ
STAT13 HIGHWAY MANAGEMENTT
Loan and ECLiect SumM=r
hcrwme:   States of Alagoas and Santa Catarina.
lSewlng
AM des:    The Roads Departments (DERs) in the above States
Amounts:    US$38.0 million equivalent to the State of Alagoas
US$50.0 million equivalent to the State of Santa Catarina
Terms:       Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
OWetives:   The proposed project would help to check the deterioration t. he State road networks
and improve their condition by: (a) ensuring adequate p:  and funding for the
rehabilitation and maintenance versus the new-construction co. ,  ,nts of 'dhe State road
programs; (b) designing and implementing appropriate hig,iv.-,y rehabilitation and
maintenance strategies and programs; and (c) strengthening the DER maintenance capabil-
ities through increased reliance on contracted rather than force account works and
through improved maintenance management. It would also help: (d) develop and improve
compliance with environmental standards for state roads. Although the project would
assist two selected States, its impact is expected to be much wider as it will help to
establish an institutional and technical framework for the improved rehabilitation and
maintenance of state roads nationwide. The project would contribute to the resumption
of economic growth by reducing the cost of road transport on the state highway
networks.
Descrilgo:  The project would consist of two similar subprojects in the borrower States. Each
subproject would include: (A) a pollcy and institutional development program to:
(a) prepare and annually update the state's pluriannual and annual road expenditure and
funding programs, consistent with agreed priorities and targets; (b) develop and
implement a pavement management system to help prepare and monitor appropriate road
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and programs; (c) strengthen the DER's contract
and project management systems; and (d) develop appropriate capability in the DER and
in the State Government to implement and monitor environmental standards and
guidelines for state roads; and (B) an investment and maintenance program consisting
of the rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance components of the State's
1992-96 road program. The two subprojects combined would include about 950 km of
rehabilitation and 1,400 km of resurfacing works.
Project
Benefims:    The project, by improving the maintenance and serviceability of the state highway
networks, would avoid further losses of valuable capital invested in publie- roads,
substantially reduce the cost of road transport on state highways, and support the
resumption of growth in agriculture, industry, and exports. It would also contribute to
enhanced accountability and more efficient use of public resources in the highway
subsector, and to the mitigation of adverse environmental impacts of highway
construction and maintenance.



- ii -
Liaka:       Possible risks include ineffective management of subprojects by the DERs. inadequate
provision of budgetary resources by the States, and inadequate coordination and
monitoring of the project by DNER. To minimize these risks, the experience acquired
with the previous highways and feeder roads projects has been incorporated into the
project's design. In particular, the project would provide for: well-defined subproject
implementation programs and organizational arrangements, including the strengthening
of the DERs' key planning and control systems; and regular annual reviews of the States'
road expenditure and funding programs at the time of budget preparation. Also, the
DNER unit responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the project would be
strengthened with appropriate technical assistance and training; and a mid-term review
of the subprojects, to be carried out by the end of 1994, would provide for appropriate
Bank remedies if performance is not satisfactory.
Estimated ProJect Costs and Financing
(US$ million equivalent)
rlject Costs l/                   LoA             Foreig           :Ba
Alagoas Subproject                 45.5             30.4            75.9
Santa Catarina Subproject          72.1             48.1           120.2
Total Base Cost                   117.6             78.5           196.1
Physical Contingencies              8.4              5.6            14.0
Price Contingencies                 8.5              5.7            14.2
Total Project Cost                134.5             89.8           224.3
Einancing Plan          State Govnment              Banlk           Q
Alagoas Subproject                 50.5             38.0            88.5
Santa Catarina Subproject   .      85.8             50.0           135.8
Total                             136.3             88.0           224.3
Estimated Disbursements    EX23    FY94    FY95  EX26   FY97  EY98
Annual 2/                     9        8       24     23      16       8
Cumulative                    9       17       41     64      80      88
1/ including estimatxd local taxes and duties totalling US$31.5 million
2/ including initial deposits in special accounts totalling US$6.3 million.
Rate of letur:
The estimated economic rate of return for the first-year rehabilitation and resurfacing
program is 60%. The economic rates of return for the remaining investments are
expected to range from above 12% to about 100%, with most of them exceeding 30%.



BRAZIL
STAT HIGNWAY MANAGEMENT PROJC
I. THE TRIANSPORT SECT[R
A. Overview of the Transport System
1.01   Brazil, in colonial times, produceJ its export commodities in the vicinity of a few harbors, and
rivers and unimproved tracks were the only means of communication. These islands of development
expanded considerably in the second half of the previous century and early in this century, when major
foreign trading companies built railways to ship production from inland areas to the ports. The
development of an import-substitution industry, which required a better integration of these separate geo-
economic regions, led Brazil, after 1945, to undertake the construction of a network of primary highways,
which was largely completed by 1975. During this period, road transport, which was particularly adapted
to the needs of the consumer goods industry and agriculture, gradually became the most important mode
of transport. The railroads rapidly lost most of their break-bulk cargo and passenger traffic to the more
effective trucking and bus industries, and the State had to bail them out gradually.
1.02   More recently, the development of heavy industry in the Southeast, and the expansion of grain
production in the Center-West region, far away from the agro-ndustrial and export centers on the eastern
seaboard, generated much heavier transport flows over longer distances, and has led to the rapid
deterioration of large portions of the road networks. At tho same time, the unprecedented growth of the
cities, their industrial and commercial activity, the greater propensity for travel, and marked increase in
car ownership have exacerbated urban transport problems, which contribute to the country's high
transport bill and to the substantially reduced economic efficiency of the major cities. Because of macro-
economic and other constraints, both the public and private sectors are adjusting slowly to meet these and
other changes in the country's transport requirements.
1.03   The South and Southeast regions have a dense system of highways and railways. Substantial
portions of the highway networks have deteriorated as a result of very heavy traffic and inadequate
maintenance; they now require extensive rehabilitation. Many highways require strengthening and some
also need to be widened. There is sco~pe, however, for the railways to increase their participation in the
transport along the main north-south and export corridors, which could help postpone some highway
capacity investments. Inland water transport is significant only on the Rio Jacui-Lagoa dos Patos
waterway, and it has some potential on the Tiete-Parana waterway. The Center-West, frontier region,
where an unprecedented expansion of agriculture is taking plac.e, still has very sparse highway and feeder
road networks, which need to be gradually densified. The bulk of the region's exports is transported by
truck at a very high cost. The two railways, which connect the southeastern part of the region to Sao
Paulo-Santos and to Belo Horizonte-Vitoria respectively, and some of the rivers which flow from the
region's periphery, have potential to reduce these costs.
1.04 The Northeast region has a well developed highway network, with suostantially lower traffic
levels, and an extensive, but mostly uneconomic railway system. Coastal shipping has some importance
in both intra- and inter-regional trades. The North, with its sparse population and economic activity, has
tradidonally relied essentially upon river transport for both passenger and cargo movements in the
Amazon basin; there is scope to increase the efficiency of this form of transport. Air transport bas an



-2-
increasing role in moving passengers and high-value goods over tha long-distances involved. The
Northwest Highway, which was built in the early 1980's as a component of a colonization progr, i, has
opeped a viable alternative to the Belem-Brasilia route and to coa3tal shipping for the region's trade with
the Southeast.
B. The Transport Sector in the F    $
1.05   The transport sector accounts tr a rather low 3.7% of Brazil's G3NP, and road transport alone
for about 3%, but these figures exclude the very important segments of own-account transport, services
by truck owner-operators, and private automobile use, which are not accounted for in GNP calculations.
Total expenditures on transport services amounted to US$52 biilion in 1985 (equivalent to about 22% of
GNP). Road transport accounts for over 80% of that total (Table 1). The road transport industry has
grown at rates which systematically exceeded those of GNP and other industries. Freight and passenger
transport outputs increased at average annual rates of 8.2% and 10.2% respectively between 1970 and
1986, compared to 5.6% and 4.0% for the industrial and agricultural sectors respectively.
1.06  Public investment in transport, which accounted for about 40% of total public capital formation
in the 1960's and the early 1970's and reached 3.3 % of GNP in 1975, has drastically decreased to below
1 % of GNP since 1981. Roads received the largest share-of those investments until the mid-1970's. From
1975-85, railways were given higher priority in the investments of the Federation in an attempt to
conserve energy, but road expenditures had to be curtailed even more drastically, which resulted in the
rapid deterioration of large portions of the networks built in the 1950's and 1960's. The size of the
transport industry, its direct impact upon the productive sectors, as well as the extensive involvement of
the government in the sector and the fiscal implications point to the critical importance of the transport
sector to the success of stabilization and recovery efforts.
C. Th Institutional and Policy Framework
1.07 The management of the transport sector is shared among the three levels of government. At the
Federal and State levels, the administrative and operational functions are generally vested into sub-sectoral
autonomous agencies and public enterprises, respectively, under the jurisdiction of the newly-created
Ministry of Transport and the States' Secretariats for Transportation. The National Roads Department
(DNER) administers a network of highways, including interstate, but also some highways of essentially
state interest. The State Roads Departments (DERs) are responsible for the other highways and the more
important feeder roads, while the Municipal Governments have jurisdiction over the rural roads of local
interest, and the urban streets. With the exception of some state-controlled bus companies in the major
cities, the road passenger and freight transport industries are mostly private. The three levels of
government, however, regulate the provision of passenger services through a system of concessions; and
although some attempts have been made in the past to impose restrictive measures on truckdng, the
industry is basically operating in an unregulated environment (para 2.06).
1.08 The Federal Railway Company (RFFSA), a consolidation of 18 formerly independent regional
railways, is now owned by the Federation. ft has recently curtailed its non-viable long-distance passenger
services, spun off its commuter train systems into a subsidiary, the Brazilian Urban Train Company
(CBTU), and it now operates mostly freight services in the Southeastern, Southern, and part of the
Northeastern regions. The Sao Paulo State Railway Company (FEPASA), which is owned by the State



of Sao Paulo, operates mainly freight services on a rail network which serves the State and neighboring
areas, and some rassenger services, including commuter trains in the metropolitan region. The large
mining group Comnpanhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) owns and operates two essentially iron ore-carrier
railways in the Southeast and in the North. The Federation, through the Portobras (former national ports
agency) system, Petrobras for oil-specialized operations, and CVRD for minerals, and through
concessions to private companies. controls the country's entire port system. The Federation also owns
and operates a substantial portion of the merchant fleet (through Lloydbras, Petrobras and Docenave) and
is present in irnland shipping. Airlines are privately owned, but the state regulates services and controls
rates.
1.09 The Government's objectives  ' strategy for the transport sector adequately emphasize: (a) the
reduction of the size of the public sector, through the extinction or restructuring of non-viable state
companies or agencies, ard the privatization of operating companies; (b) the deregulation of transport
activities and the promotion of private sector involvement in transport, particularly in ports and railway
operations, and in the financing and operation of public infrastructure projects; (c) the decentralization
of administrative responsibilities to the lower levels of government, in particular in the highways, urban
transport, and ports subsectors; (d) the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing infrastructure, and
the minimum investment required to enable the recovery of the economy; and (e) operational performance
improvements, in particular through a better integration of the various transport modes.
1.10   Some important measures of such strategy have recently been taken. They include: (a) the
liquidation of PORTOBRAS, deregulation of shipping, and submission to Congress of far-reaching port
reform legislation; (b) the restructuring of DNER, preparation of legislation to decentralize highway
administration, and the deregulation of trucking; (c) the liquidation of the Brazilian Urban Transport
Enterprise (EBTU) and start-up of programs to transfer the operation of urban train systems to the state
and local levels; (d) the rationalization of railway services and start-up of their privatization; and
(e) limited deregulation of the airline industry to ailow for increased competition. The above measures
have already led to substantial reductions in total public sector transport employment.
D. Bank Sector Exedence and Strteg
1.11 The Bank has made 24 loans in the transport sector since the early 1960's: ten for highways,
three for feeder roads, four for railways, two for ports, and five for urban transportation, in addition to
financing rural roads under a number of agriculture projects, and the construction of an 890 km railway
system under the Carajas Iron Ore project. Until 1975, the projects concentrated on the expansion of the
trunk highway network and on the improvement of the railway and mass transit systems. The first port
project, completed in 1981, helped finance the construction of a container terminal in Santos. In
subsequent years, emphasis gradually shifted to the maintenance and rebabilitation of the interstate and
trunk highway network, to the planning and implementation, on a decentralized basis, of feeder roads
programs, and to improving public (bus) transport and traffic management in the major cities.
1.12 More recently, with the rapid deterioration of the financial and operational performance of the
sector's state-owned enterprises, the policy and institutional reforms advocated by the Bank for more
efficient resource use and for management effectiveness have received broader consideration. In support
of the financial rehabilitation and the commercially-oriented operation of the public enterprises, the Bank
approved a Federal Railway-Export Corridor-Project in 1985, the FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation Project
in 1987, and the Ports Technical Assistance Project in 1988. In support of the reorganization of the



-4-
highway sub-sector management, the Bank approved a State Highways Management-Sao Paulo Project
in 1989 and a (Federal) Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project in 1990, both of which are now
progressing well. Finally, in support of the decentralization program, the Bank approved a Metropolitan
Transport Decentralization Project in Sao Paulo in July 1992.
1.13   The Bank's involvement in the transport sector has generally been successful. The projecs'
physical objectives have generally been met although the more recent difficult economic conditions and
related funding problems have often caused substantial delays. Frogress on policy reforms and
institutional strengthening has often been slower than expected; the size and complexity of the sector, the
large number of government agencies and public enterprises involved, the complex political system, and
the difficulty in reaching the needed consensus for policy reforms have been major factors in the delays,
but there might also have been unrealistically high expectations or the Bank's part on the rate of policy
reform.
1.14   The Bank's strategy in Brazil is to support policies and investments that will encourage economic
growth and social development in a context of macro-economic stability. The ma:n emphasis Is on
efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate targeting and
delivery of support systems to the poor. The strategy for the infrastructure sectors, including transport,
is elaborated in a Medium-Term Strategy Paper for the Infrastructure Sectors (Report No. 9473-BR, July
31, 1991). The transport sector objectives are oriented by the broader country strategy objectives and
therefore include: (a) the stabilization process, and the consequent need to reduce public expenditure,
Increase revenue mobilization, and improve resource utilization in the sector; (b) the resumpdon of
economic growth, including the provision of efficient and reliable transport services to targeted sectors
of the economy; (c) the promotion of private sector investment and operations in transport; (d) the
strengthening of public sector management, in particular through enterprise reform and decentralization;
and (e) improved environmental management in transportation.
1.15   The main focus of the Bank's transport strategy is on the following policy instruments: (a)
transport pricing, including liberalization of price controls, restoration of adequate pricing policies and
mechanisms in the public sector, and appropriate transport user taxation; (b) the re-design of sector
regulation and implementation of regulatory reforms which, together with efficient pricing mechanisms
and privatization measures, would aim at restoring the role of market forces in the operation and
development of the transport sector; (c) institutional reform, including decentralization of government
responsibilities to strengthen the management of public infrastructure and establish appropriate
mechanisms to control the impact of transport operations and investment on the environment; and
(d) investment programming, aimed in particular at the stabilization and growth resumption objectives.



A.   _=Q9[Dfl~1Y2R
A. Road Transpot In the EconomX
2.01   Road transport accounts for only about 3% of GNP, but neither own-account transport nor
services by individual truck owner-operators, nor private automobile use, are accounted for in GNP
estimates. A better indicator of the cconomic relevance of the sub-sector is the total national expenditure
for road transportation, which amounited to about US$45 billion, equivalent to 19% of GNP and to 85%
of the country's total tranport expenditures in the mid-1980's (Table 1, Annex 1). Freight represents
about 4S% and passengers 55% of total road transport expenditures. Private automobile use accounts for
47% and bus transport for 8% of the total. Road transport also accounts for over 90% of total passenger-
km and about 60% of total ton-km outputs. There are about 1 1.0 million cars and 1- - lion trucks in
Brazi', in addition to 150,000 buses and 1.2 million light commercial vehicles (Tab    Annex 1). The
trucking industry comprises about 15,000 commercial trucking firms which, together, have about 250,000
em,,ioyees and annual operational revenues of US$8.0 billion equivalent, and about 275,000 truck owner-
operitors.
2.02   The road transport industry has grown at rates which systematically have exceeded those of GNP
and other industries. Transport output has grown at an average 6.9% between 1970 and 1990, compared
to 5.0% for GDP. Freight and passenger transport outputs have grown at average annual rates of 8.2%
and 10.2% respectively between 1970 and 1986, compared to 5.6% and 4.0% for the Industrial and the
agricultural sectors, respectively (Table 3, Annex 1).
2.03   Roads received the largest share of public investment expenditures in transport until the mid-
1970's. Road construction and maintenance expenditures by the three levels of government reached a
maximum of US$2.4 billion in 1974. But they declined thereafter when the Federal Government, aiming
at conserving energy, embarked on heavy investments in rail and water transport and curtailed road
eqxpenditures. The total federal expenditure for roads declined from about US$3.0 billion in the late
1970's to about US$1.0 billion in the mid-1980's. Since then, however, road expenditures by the Federal
Government have recuperated, reaching an average of about US$2.0 billion in the late 1980's.
B. Ibe Road    psort Industry
2.04 The Road Freight Transport Industry. The country's 15,000 commercial trucking firms
together own about 25% of the truck fleet, and truck owner-operators operate another 25% of the fleet.
Own-account trucking therefore represents the remaining half of the truck fleet. Trucking firms are highly
specialized as to the type of market served -nd service provided, including routes and products. Larger
firms concentrate their services on dens.. :utes, while smaller firms appear more frequently in less
dense or more specialized links. Although there may be hundreds of firms operating in a particular
segment of the market, the few larger firms hold a significant share (generally from 30% to 60%) of that
market. Owner-operators can be attached to trucking or other firms, but most are completely independent.
They generally operate older, medium-size trucks with conventional open bodies, on medium- and long-
distance hauls. Own-account trucking is most important in pick-up and delivery services in the cities, and
in the inter-city transport of cargoes which require specialized equipment.
2.05   The trucking industry overall is efficien:. Truck rates reveal a competitive positior in relation to
rail transport. The share of operational expenses to revenues varies from 50 to 70%, and total expenses



Z-6
are about 90% of revenues. There is no evidence of above-normal proflts. Investments by the industry,
h-wever, as represented by truck sdes, the only reliable investment data, have shown an overall declining
tendency in relation to GNP since the mid. 1970's. Medium-size trucks have been substituted for smaller
trucks and pick-ups in the urban services, and for heavier trucks in Inter-city services. Recently, there
has also been significant improvement in truck technology, with more efficient engines and modem
bodies, as a result of the now stronger competition between the four major manufacturers. There is
evidence, however, that upgrading and appropriate renewal of fleets is taking place mainly within the
large trucking flrms and own-account trucking segments of the industry. The number of owner-operators
has been decreasing gradually since the mid-1970's and their fleet is rapidly aging.
2.06   The role of the Government vis-a-vis the trucking industry, has essentially been to provide and
maintain the road infrastructure. The industry was largely unregulated until 1983. The Government
influenced operations only indirectly through pricing and taxation of Inputs, and license fees. In 1983,
a law was passed authorizing the Government to regulate the industry and, In addition to formalizing a
taxonomy for the above-mentioned categories of truck operators, Introducing two new important
restrictions: firms involved in own-account trucking were forbidden to sell trucking services to third
parties; and the former Ministry of Transport (MT) was investxd with a mandate to impose restrictive
measures to the entry of new trucking flrms. MT later established minimum capacity levels for
commercial trucking firms and geographical limits on operation as well as the type of commodity carried.
In practice, however, problenis with the implementation of the operator's mandatory register and
insufficient political support and means of enforcing legislation have made the impact of these restrictions
negligible. In 1990, the new Government revoked the restrictions imposed by MT.
2.07   The Road Passenger Transport Industry. Passenger transportation in Brazil is considered to
be a public service. Entry into the sector is restricted by govermnent permission or concessions.
Mlunicipal, state or the federal governments set rates, routes, frequencies, and safety and quality standards
in practically all market segments. There are a few publicly-owned and operated firms in some of the
largest capitals and cities. Private enterprises, however, are predominant in number and hold the largest
share of the market. The majority of these firms are small to medium in size, and controlled by one
entrepreneur or by a family group. In the interstate segment and in dense inter-municipal connections,
however, there are a few firms providing services in complex networks, operating fleets of more than
a thousand buses. In the urban segment, large firms are rare; they usually serve a strictly defined
geographical zone, operating a fleet of up to two or three hundred buses from a single garage.
C. The Road Networks. Maintenance Condition and Polieles
2.08   Brazil has a total of about 1.5 million km of
roa4s. They are organized into a federal network of    Bra'. oa Nhork. Mousan Km.)
about 67,000  km, which  is under DNER's                      Pd    U e          LOW
responsibility; state networks totalling about 200,000
km, which are in the jurisdictions of the 25 States,             50       17       67
two federal territories and the Federal District; and  Sate      75       125      200
municipal roads totalling about 1.2 million kn, which  Munci     IS    1.218    1,233
fall  under  the  jurisdiction  of  about  4,000   To l           i4    1,218    1.503
Municipalities.                                    Tal           140    1,460    I,S00
2.09   The federal network, which has about 50,000 km of paved highways, was built mainly from the
1950's to the 1970's. Pavement aging, together with structural problems resulting from heavier-than-
anticipated traffic and inadequate maintenance, have contributed to the rapid deterioration of significant



-7 -
portions of that network. Since the early
1980's, DNER has drastically scaled down            Condition of Federal Paved Network
new  construction  and  emp,lasized  the               GoO    Rl        Ba  Total
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing               2        17.0   1S Tota
i'ighways. The pace of deterioration of the  Tbouund     20.5    17.0  12.S    50.0
network has consequently been reduced      Km.
considerably. The present condition of the  x            41%     34%   25%    100%
federal paved network, based on a survey of
80% of the network carried out in the late
1980's is as follows: (a) about 25 % of the network has major stru;.wral problems, with deflection
coefficients above 80/100 mm and/or a high density of cracks; and (b) of the 34% of the network where
deflection (on the order of 50 to 80/100 mm for example) or density of cracks show the need to renew
the asphalt overlays, about one-fifth could annually deteriorate to the point of having structural problems
if adequate periodic maintenance is not performed in a timely manner.
2.10   A pavement rehabilitation and maintenance policy and program for the federal network was
developed by DNER on the basis of assessments of alternative poiicies made with the help of the Bank-
developed Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM3) model, and an assumed budgetary constraint of
US$300 million over 1991-95, consistent with the average expenditures actually made under the program
during 1984-88. They consist of: (a) rehabilitation of all pavements with high deflection coefficients and
traffic volume above 1,000 vehicles per day (about 8,000 km); (b) overlays on pavements with high
roughness and crack coefficients, and traffic limits ranging from 500 to 5000 vehicles to curb pavement
deterioration (about 5000 km); (c) resealing of pavements on the rest of the network (about 35,000 km)
to reduce the pace of pavement deterioration, giving priority to sections with the highest crack
coefficients. The total estimated cost of the five-year iehabilitation and resurfacing program would be
about US$1.5 billion. As a result of the program (including the planned transfer to the states of about
15,000 km of federal highways), the federal network would, by 1995, be in the following maintenance
condition: 11% in poor condition (as against 25% currently) and the same proportion (about 35%) would
be in fair condition. This program is being supported through te ongoing Highways Management and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan No 3169-BR).
2.11   The sLate networks, of about 200,000 km, or 13% of Brazil's total road length, consist of 75,000
km of paved highways or feeder roads (i.e. about 57% of the country's paved network), 80,000 km of
gravel and 45,000 km of earth roads. Network length has been increasing at a steady rate of 7% p.a. over
the past 30 years. The density of state roads, however, is still very low (23 meters per km2 and 700
inhabitants per km of road, as an average). Five States (Goias, Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso
and Bahia) together account for half of the total length, and four states (Sao Pahlo, Parana, Bahia and
Minas Gerais) account for half the length of the paved networks (Table 4, Annex 1). Traffic on state
networks is estimated at about 50 billion vehicle-km, i.e. about 25% more than on the federal network,
and it is growing much faster (at about 9% p.a.), which leads to a substantial need for pavement
maintenance and strengthening, as well as for new paving and capacity expansion programs for the state
road networks.
2.12 The maintenanice condition of the state networks is not significantly better than that of the federal
network, despite the fact that they are geiierally younger (the weighted average age of the paved networks
is about 12 years). A survey of their mainztcrance condition, carried out in 1986 under the coordination
of the Brazilian Association of the DERs (ABDER), showed that about 45% of the paved highways were
in good condition, 34% in regular condition, and 21% in poor condition; and about 75% of those in good
condition were less than five years old and 80% of those in regular condition were in the five to ten year
age (Table 4, Annex 1). These results suggest that after a relatively slow but increasing deterioration



-8 -
process in the first ten years, paved highways
then deteriorate very rapidly. This means,            Condition of State Paved Ntworks
considering the above-mentioned average age,             Od    Reulr    bT O
that the state networks are now reaching a
critical phase of rapid deterioration, and that  moud   90.0     68.0   42.0      200.0
intensive  rehabilitation  and  maintenance  xm.
efforts are needed.                         x           45%      34%    21%      100%
2.13 The maintenance programs of the state
governments are generally inadequate. According to the above-mentioned survey, only about 12,000 km
of paved highways (16% of the network) were maintained in the mid-1980's and a substantial portion of
the maintained sections (about 37%) received only a slurry seal, a technique which reduces the pace of
deterioration for only two to three years. By 1986, the maintenance effort was, and probably still is, very
concentrated in a few states, essentially in Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Parana and Ceara, which together
accounted for almost 80% of the states' maintenance programs. These figures indicate that the greater
majority of the states do very little maintenance, despite the very substantial economic returns that
appropriate maintenance could bring. It is not uncommon that vehicle operating costs increase by as much
as 50% on deteriorated pavements, and when traffic is substantial, i.e. more than 1,000 vehicles per day,
these additional costs can be several times higher than the required maintenance expenditures.
2.14 Road rehabilitation and maintenance policies and programs are not clearly defined at the level of
the states, in general. The state governments will have to undertake or expand programs for the
appropriate strengthening of their highway agencies, in particular for the development and monitoring
of appropriate rehabilitation and maintenance policies and programs (para. 3.08). Considering the present
condition of the networks and traffic levels, a possible strategy for many of the states would be to:
(a)  strengthen the paved highways and feeder roads which are in regular condition, through timely
periodic overlays, in order to avoid their reaching the poor condition category and the subsequent
need for costly rehabilitation (about 30,000 km);
(b)  gradually rehabilitate the sections which are in poor condition (15,000 km), possibly over five-to-
ten-year periods, depending on the budget constraints of the respective states; an appropriate
target for a five-year program would be to rehabilitate 8,000 km with a combination of high
deflection coefficients and high traffic volumes; and
(c)  carry out routine maintenance programs on the entire network, except for sections which are
rehabilitated in that year.
The cost of such rehabilitation and maintenance programs for the states' paved networks was estimated,
on a very preliminary basis, at about US$4.0 billion equivalent over 1992-1996.
2.15   The investments required on the state road networks are also very substantial. There are about
25,000 km of state roads with average daily traffic (ADT) levels above 200 vehicles, which are therefore
possible candidates, subject to appropriate economic justification, for being paved in the next few years.
Among them, there are almost 5,000 km which have an ADT above 500 vehicles, therefore justifying
their immediate paving. There is also a need for widening about 2,000 km of highways, two-thirds of
which are located in the State of Sao Paulo, which have an ADT close to their capacity.



- 9 -
D. Subsector Administration. Decentralization
2.16   Responsibilities for administering the country's road network are shared between DNER (67,000
km), the 25 state road departments (DERs, 200,000 Iam) and the 4,000 or so municipalities (1.2 million
km). Following the clear option for decentralization which was made through the 1988 Constitution and
fiscal reform, which has transferred the bulk of road user tax revenues to the states and municipalities
(para. 2.19), the Federal Government has decided to also decentralize responsibilities for administering
the road networks. In particular, the size of the federal network is to be reduced to the main interstate
highways, through gradually transferring to the state governments the responsibility for the other
highways, with predominantly local interest. Many such highways had been built or improved under
DNER's budgets through political pressure, and, by acquired rights, had become federal highways. The
Federal Government prepared a plan, including the relevant draft legislation, for the transfer of about
20,000 km of roads from federal to state jurisdictions. Before such transfers can take place, however,
the Federal Govermment intends to seek agreement with the respective states on the actual highways and
timing for such transfers.
2.17   Furthermore, DNER and many of the DERs developed into large organizations to administer the
extensive construction programs of the previous decades. While there are still substantial needs for the
construction of new roads, in particular in the Center-West Region, and for capacity investments in the
South and Southeast regions, since large portions of the networks are now reaching a critical age,
highway maintenance is becoming, or should become the main activity of most agencies. Thnerefore, the
agencies have to make important institutional adjustments, in particular to develop appropriate road
maintenance planning and management systems, and to rely more systematically on the more efficient
private contractor industry, including for routine maintenance activities, rather than force account works.
DNER and a few more developed DERs have undertaken such reforms, including under ongoing
Bank-financed projects. There are, however, significant technological and institutional gaps between the
various DERs, and the road maintenance capacity of the local governments is very weak.
2.18   The decentralization process, besides the above-mentioned transfers of non-interstate highways,
will therefore require a broad reform and strengthening of the highway institutions. The Federal
Government has developed a strategy and an action plan to implement such administrative reform of the
highway subsector, which includes action programs to: (a) gradually transfer the highways of
predominantly local interest to the state governments; (b) develop appropriate capabilities at the federal
level, for subsector policy formulation, planning, research and technological development, including the
management of the reduced federal network; (c) reorganize and streamline DNER in accordance with its
new responsibilities; (d) establish appropriate financing and funding mechanisms for road maintenance
(paras. 2.19-2.20); and (e) assist the state governments in establishing adequate planning, pavement
management and maintenance management systems to develop appropriate capacity within the DERs for
the management and maintenance of the state networks, including the transferred highways. The Highway
Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR, signed in April 1991) was designed to
support the implementation of programs (a) to (d). The proposed project would support the
implementation of program (e) in a first group of states.
E. Highway Flnandng
2.19   Road User Taxation. The system of road user taxes underwent substantial changes with the fiscai
reform of 1989. The federal level lost its power to impose taxes on petroleum and alcohol products and
on motor-vehicle ownership, retaining only the petroleum import tax (IP). The states gained from the
inclusion of petroleum and alcohol products and of inter-state and inter-municipal transport services in



- 10-
the base of the value added tax ICMS) and the right to tax motor-vehicle ownership. The municipal level
increased its participation in the revenues of the value added tax from 20 to 25%, and in those of the
motor-vehicle ownership tax (IPVA) from 40 to 50%; and they gained authority to impose a tax on sales
of gasoline and alcohol (IVVC), up to 3% of retail price. A summary of the current road user taxes is
shown in Table 5, Annex 1. Overall, the states' and municipalities' revenues from road user taxation have
increased substantially, while those of the Federation have been reduced.
2.20  The ICMS imposed on petroleum and alcohol products has resulted In a net increase of taxation,
as compared to the previous sole tax, which was reduced on diesel oil and from which alcohol was
exempted. From a preliminary assessment made by GEIPOT, it appears that the level and structure of
the road user taxes have improved as a result of the reform, and that revenues from road user taxes
exceed total road expenditures. A policy for highway cost-recovery is being developed, and a system is
being established to monitor the adequacy of road user charges under the Highway Management and
Rehabilitation Project. Furthermore, the Federal Govermnent is committed, under the same project, to
a system of road user charges which would: (a) have levels which would permit the recovery of at least
the short-term marginal costs of road use; (b) be free of distortions detrimental to proper fuel
conservation; and (c) be updated on a timely basis.
2.21 Funding of Highway Agendes. Road expenditures used to be funded mainly through revenues
from road user taxes which were shared between the three levels of govermment and earmarked for that
purpose. In the early 1980's, however, tax earmarking was gradually discontinued with a view to
restoring central control over public expenditures. The highways agencies have consequently seen their
resources decrease drastically since general budget allocations did not make up for the loss of earmarked
funds; and their heavy reliance upon the less predictable transfer from general revenue has badly affected
their construction and maintenance programs. Federal road expenditures are now funded by the revenues
from the petroleum import tax, although such revenues are not legally earmarked for road expenditures,
and from general revenue. The DERs, however, still remain entirely funded from the states' general
revenues. It would be a major objective of the proposed project to assist the DERs in preparing
appropriate road programs based on sound technical and economic priority criteria, and to ensure
adequate finding for their rehabilitation and maintenance programs (paras. 2.23 and 3.07).
F. State Road Agendes. Organization and Management
2.22   The State Road Departments (DERs) were established between the 1930's and the 1950's,
generally under the states' Secretariats for Transportation or Public Works, in order to administer road
construction programs which were then being initiated. They rapidly developed into large, rather
centralized organizations, with an internal capacity to build roads at a time when the private contracting
industry was still very limited. Provided with a relatively constant flow of revenues generated by the
earmarked taxes, and with competent civil engineers, the DERs have generally been very effective in
carrying out the construction programs, although more attention was put upon physical rather than
economic and financial planning. With the development of the private contractor industry in the 1950's
and 1960's, the agencies were no longer involved in the execution of major works, but they retained
control of the road programs. The elimination of the earmarked revenues in the 1980's, however, led to
a drastic reduction of the programs. At the same time, large portions of the state networks, which were
reaching a critical age, entered into a p:ocess of more rapid deterioration. But the DERs, due to their
rather centralized organization, the predominantly engineering background of their staff, and also to the
insufficient priority given to maintenance at the Government level, have been adjusting only slowly to
the more complex tasks of maintaining the networks under their responsibility.



- 11 -
2.23   Planning and Funding. Since they were assured of adequate funds, including their new
construction programs, through earmarked taxes, most DERs never developed the capacity for economic
planning which is required to effectively compete with other sectors for general revenue appropriations.
Later on, their increased dependence on the general revenues of the states led to increased Government
intervention in defining the DERs' priorities, which also contributed to discouraging the DERs' economic
planning efforts. Furthermore, the DERs' professional staff has traditionally consisted, almost exclusively,
of civil engineers who, when promoted to managerial positions, placed more attention on the engineering
and execution aspects of the activities than to the programming, budgetir- and monitoring requirements.
Although a return to a system of earmarked tax revenues could be an effective means of ensuring
adequate funding for the maintenance of road networks, it is unlikely to be achieved in the short term
since it would require changes in the recentiy approved federal and state constitutions. The DERs need
to strengthen their planning capabilities to prepare the States' annual and pluriannual road programs on
the basis of appropriate technicai and economic criteria, and to seek appropriate funding commitments
from the Government and other possible financiers. An action program, including technical assistance and
training of staff, has been included in the proposed project in order to assist the Borrowers in developing
such planning capability and preparing their annual and pluriannual road expenditure and funding
programs, and to ensure that appropriate priority will be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of
the networks (paras. 2.24 and 3.07).
2.24   Maintenance Planning. The development and monitoring of appropriate network maintenance
strategies and pluriannual and annual programs have, with the rapid deterioration of the networks and the
increased budget constraints, become the most critical tasks faced by the DERs. The maintenance
planning and programming process, however, in order to be effective, requires an appropriate pavement
management system (PMS), i.e., adequate information on the condition and usage of the network, and
analytical tools to assess alternative maintenance strategies under budget constraints, and to prepare and
evaluate pavement rehabilitation and periodic maintenance projects and programs. The DERs, in general,
do not have such PMS, but some of them have some elements of such a system, which need to be
strengthened and complemented with the missing elements. About half of the DERs have a system of road
inventory, which needs to be updated more systematically; but a few of them only gather information on
the condition and deterioration of pavements, and this information is mostly qualitative rather than
quantitative. A similar proportion of DERs have regular traffic counting programs. The network
information gathered by different organizational units is not organized in a form suitable for analysis; the
DERs need to establish appropriate computerized network data bases and strengthen their data collection
systems accordingly. A few DERs are making attempts to develop network maintenance strategies and
programs with the help of the Bank's HDM III model, but the lack of appropriate network data and
capacity to make sound pavement diagnostics are significant shortcomings. In the short term, the DERs,
in developing and evaluating their maintenance strategies and programs, will therefore have to rely on
simplified methodologies, consistent with the available information, and improve the relevant information
systems so that they can later on make effective use of the HDM Im methodology. An action program,
including technical assistance and training of staff, has been included in the proposed project in order to
assist the Borrowers' DERs in developing and establishing such PMSs, and in preparing and updating
network maintenance strategies and programs (para. 3.08).
2.25   Contract Maintemance. The routine maintenance activities of the DERs are generally by force-
account works. Although DNER is now successfully contracting out the bulk of the routine maintenance
on the paved federal network, only a few DERs have been experimenting with contract routine
maintenance on less than 4% of the state highways. Although about 90% of the state roads receive some
form of routine maintenance, it was estimated that all the DER resources in staff and equipment combined
would allow for tho adequate maintenance of only 40% of the networks. There is scope, therefore, in
many of the DERs, to undertake and/or gradually expand the execution of routine maintenance by private



- 12 -
contractors, without affecting the utilization of the agencies' installed capacities for force-account works.
The above-me:ationed action program would also assist the Borrowers' DERs in developing and
implementing a strategy and a plan to undertake and/or gradually expand the execution of routine
maintenance by private contractors (para. 3.08).
2.26   Contract and ProJect Management Systems. The administrative systems of the DERs, which
are involved in the procurement and management of contracts and in the management and monitoring of
projects and programs are essential elements for the successful implementation of the DERs' maintenance
strategies and programs. The very centralized organization of the DERs makes any flow of information
across organizational units very difficult and many administrative tasks very cumbersome. Some DERs
have undertaken programs to streamline their administrative procedures and to computerize some of their
administrative systems. The above-mentioned action program would also help the Borrowers' DERs in
developing and implementing, with technical assistance and training of personnel, appropriate contract
management and program monitoring systems, including the monitoring of the respective subprojects
(para. 3.08).
2.27 Personnel and Training. All the DERs combined have a staff of about 90,000, of which 6%
have had university-level, 17 % secondary-level and 77% primary-level education. With the restrictions
imposed on the recruitment and management of government employees, including a number of freezes
on hiring, and the insufficient attention given to staff development, the DERs have been unable to
maintain a competent staff to carry out their changing responsibilities. In order to implement the above-
mentioned action programs, as well as the environmental control action program (para. 2.28), the DERs
will therefore need to make an effort to train some of their professional staff and management personnel
in the areas of: (a) network maintenance planning and pavement management systems, including the
desigut and implementAtion of such systems, techniques of pavement diagnostic, design and rehabilitation,
and use of the HDM.3 model; (b) contract maintenance and maintenance administration systems, including
procurement, management and supervision of contracts, and monitoring of projects and programs; and
(c) environmental control, including environmental cost-benefit analyses and dissemination of the
Environmental Guidelines for highways. An appropriate training program, consisting of a series of
courses, seminars and conferences covering the above areas to be implemented by DNER with the support
of ABDER, has been developed and will be offered to both DNER and DER personnel under the
Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (see Annex 7 of SAR Report No. 8308-BR). The
proposed project will provide financing to the Borrowers' DERs to participate in these programs.
G. Environmental Control
2.28   The Government has established that any major civil works project should be subject to an
appropriate environmental impact assessment to ensure that it has no unacceptable ill-effects on the
inhabitants or on the physical environment in the project's area; and that for those projects which are
expected to have negative impacts, the project budgets should include funds to remedy such adverse
effects. Although some DERs have, with assistance of consultants, prepared environmental impact
assessments for some new highway projects, the DERs have not yet established the institutional capacity
to implement the above regulations. Under the Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project, the
Federal Government and DNER are committed to: (a) finalizing environmental standards and guidelines
for the transport sector in general and for the highway subsector in particular; and (b) strengthening
institutional capability for monitoring compliance with these standards (Report No. 8308-BR). The project
would include an action program to help the Borrowers and their DERs develop, implement and monitor
state environmental standards and guidelines for the highway subsector (para. 3.09).



- 13 -
m. THEPROJEC
A. PtoJect Origin. ObJectives and Rationale
3.01   Project origin. The project's concept originated from the conjunction of two major factors:
(a) the broad administrative decer.tralization, which Brazil initiated with the 1988 Constitution, and the
decision to reduce the federal network to interstate highways and to transfer other highways to State
jurisdictions, have increased the importance of the States in the management of the road network; and
(b) the experience with the state DERs, gained under the Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR),
highlighted the need to redirect resources to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the state networks
rather than to new construction programs, and to improve the effectiveness of the road maintenance
activities of DERs. The project was initially conceived as a program loan, to be implemented through an
interm iiary financial institution, which would be responsible for preparing, appraising and supervising
subpro, is, and to on-lend loan funds to the states. The project concept later evolved, in line with the
decentralization objective, into its present form consisting of a first group of subprojects in different
states, for which the respective State Governments would borrow directly from the Bank. Four states
were initially selected on the basis of the size, condition and traffic intensity of their paved highway
networks, the adequacy of their road programs and financing plans, and the scope for institutional
improvements. Only two of these states (Alagoas and Santa Catarina), however, obtained Federal
Government guarantee for the proposed loans. The project therefore consists of two subprojects for these
states. The program concept, however, would still remain, with DNER providing the DERs with the
necessary technical guidance and training, and performing project coordination and monitoring functions
(para. 4.12); and helping to prepare similar subprojects in other states, which are expected to be
supported by follow-up Bank projects and/or by other financiers.
3.02   Project Objectives. The proposed project would check the further deterioration of the State road
networks and improve their maintenance condition by: (a) ensuring adequate priority and funding for the
rehabilitation and maintenance versus the new-eonstruction components of the state road programs;
(b) designing and implementing appropriate highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and
programs, and improving DER effectiveness in maintaining their network through increased reliance upon
contracted, rather than force account works, and through improved management of maintenance activities.
It would also help: (c) develop and improve compliance with environmental standards for state roads.
Although it would assist only two states, the project is expected to help establish an institutional and
technical framework for the improved rehabilitation and maintenance of state roads nationwide. The final
objective is to contribute to the resumption of economic growth by reducing the cost of road transport
on the state highway networks, which account for over half of the country's non-urban road traffic.
3.03   Rationale for Bank Involvement. After supporting the ongoing financial rehabilitation of the
railroads and the decentralization of the urban rail systems, a key sectoral priority is to assist the Federal
and Scate Governments to decentralize and strengthen the highway administration. Having made ten loans
for federal highways and three for state feeder roads, the Bank has established a leadership role and is
in a better position than other donors to offer assistance in modernizing the subsector's organization and
management.
3.04   Because of the breadth of the institutional measures, the multiplicity of the agencies involved,
and the time span required to implement the reform, effective Bank support requires a series of well-
coordinated roads projects. The ongoing Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No.
3169-BR) is assisting the Federal Government in preparing and undertaking the first phase of the



- 14 -
decentralization program, i.e., the transfer of operation and maintenance responsibilities for portions of
the federal network to the states, and the reorganization and streamlining of DNER, including the
organizational set-up for the monitoring of the proposed project. The proposed project would assist the
states of Alagoas and Santa Catarina in carrying out their road maintenance responsibilities and the
rehabilitation of their most important highways. It would also help to disseminate, through DNER,
appropriate maintenance policies and planning methodologies. A third, follow-up project is planned to
include another group of states.
B. ftlgect Descriptign
3.05   The project would consist of two similar subprojects in the states of Alagoas and Santa Catarina.
Each subproject would include: (a) a policy and Institutional development program to: (i) prepare and
annually urdate the State's pluriannual and annual road expenditure and funding programs, in accordance
with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) develop and implement a pavement
management system designed to help prepare and monitor appro1priate rehabilitation and maintenance
strategies and programs; (iii) strengthen the DER's contract and project management systems; and
(iv) develop appropriate capability in the Government and DER to implement and monitor environmental
standards and guidelines for state roads; and (b) an investment and maintenance program consisting
of: (i) the State's 1992-96 pavement rehabilitation and resurfacing programs, which would be financed
under the project; and (ii) the State's routine maintenance program for the paved network, which would
be fully funded from the State's own resources. The two subprojects combined would have a total scope
of about 950 km of roads for rehabilitation and 1,400 km for resurfacing.
(a) Policy and Institutional Development Programs
3.06  The policy and institutional development programs would consist of actions specifically designed
to achieve the above-mentioned objectives in the respective States. These programs were developed by
the State Governments and the DERs with DNER assistance in the course of project preparation. The
project would provide the necessary technical assistance and training of DER staff to effectively
implement these actions. Agreement was reached with each Borrower during loan negotiations on: (a)
the objectives of the action programs (paras 3.07-3.09); and (b) an Implementation Program detailing the
actions to be taken and the related timetable (para 4.06); with reference to: (c) an Operational Manual
(OM), satisfactory to the Bank, establishing the detailed administrative procedures and technical and
economic criteria and methodologies; and (d) the terms of reference (TOR) for technical assistance and
staff training.
3.07   State Road Programs. The objective of this action program is to ensure that adequate priority
is given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing networks in the States' annual and pluriannual
roads programs. For that purpose, the DERs have, in the course of project preparation, developed their
1992-96 road expenditure and funding programs, taking into account: the condition of the networks based
on the available information; a preliminary assessment of the rehabilitation, periodic and routine
maintenance requirements; budget performance in the past five years; and a maintenance strategy which
aims at carrying out, in addition to adequate maintenance, the needed rehabilitation program over a period
of about five years (Sections C, Annexes 2 and 6). The DERs would annually update these pluriannual
and annual road programs to reflect implementation progress and funding expectations, as well as the
improved information and analytical capabilities of the DERs (para. 3.08), in accordance with policies
and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The project would provide technical assistance for this
purpose. The Bank would annually review these programs to ensure that the priorities remain adequate.



- 15 -
During loan negotiations, it was agreed with each State Government that: (a) the DER will prepare annual
and pluriannual road expenditure and funding programs in accordance with policies and economic criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and with the rehabilitation and resurfacing
procurement and execution targets set forth in the Implementation Program, and present such programs
to the Bank for comments; and (b) the Borrower will prepare its annual budget proposals consistently with
such programs, taking into account the Bank's comments, and, as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds
to the rehabilitation and resurfacing programs to meet the agreed rehabilitation and resurfacing targets,
and not less than a specified agreed amount for the routine maintenance of the paved road network.
3.08  Pavement and Maintenance Management Systems. The objectives of Nhis action program are
to help the DERs: design and monitor appropriate highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and
programs; rely increasingly on the more effective contracted rather than force account routine
maintenance operations; and effectively manage their rehabilitation and maintenance contracts and monitor
their projects and programs. For that purpose, the DERs have, in the course of project preparation,
defined sets of actions to: (i) develop and gradually establish pavement management systems (PMS) to
improve the planning and monitoring of network maintenance strategies and programs, by strengthening
the various activities involved including pavement condition and traffic surveys, pavement diagnostics and
preliminary designs, cost-benefit analyses and programming, and by improving the integration of these
various components of the system; (ii) develop and implement a strategy and a plan to undertake and/or
gradually increase routine maintenance activities by contractors; and (iii) strengthen their contract
management and project and program monitoring systems. The project would provide technical assistance
and training to assist the DERs in the implementation of these programs. During loan negotiations, it was
agreed with each State Government that the DER will: (a) develop and establish a pavement management
system to design, monitor and evaluate appropriate highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and
programs; (b) develop and implement a strategy and a plan to gradually increase routine maintenance
activities by contract; and (c) strengthen their contract management and project and program monitoring
systems; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the Implementation Program
(para. 4.06).
3.09   Environmental Control. The objective of this action program is to assist the State Governments
and the DERs to develop institutional capabilities to carry out appropriate environmental impact analyses
for all their road programs and projects, and to prepare and monitor appropriate environmental guidelines
for highways and for transport in general. For that purpose, the State Governments and DERs have, in
the course of project preparation, defined sets of actions to: (i) prepare state enviromental guidelines for
highways and transport on the basis of a review the environmental guidelines for highways, which have
been prepared by DNER, and those for the transport sector, which have been developed by GEIPOT; and
(ii) strengthen their environmental units in the DERs and/or State Transport Secretariats with adequately-
trained staff to carry out the environmental impact analyses and to implement the state environmental
guidelines. The project would provide technical assistance and staff training to help implement these
actions, including the carrying out of environmental impact assessments of the proposed road programs.
During loan negotiations, it was agreed with each State Government that the Borrower shall: (a) prepare
appropriate environmental guidelines for highways and the transport sector; (b) strengthen the
environmental units with adequately-trained staff to carry out the environmental assessments of the roads
programs and to implement the guidelines; and (c) from June 30, 1993, carry out appropriate
environmental impact assessments for all the major road projects and programs in the State.



- 16 -
(b) Inyestment and Maintenance Prograsn
3.10  The invertment and maintenance components of the subprojects would be the paved road
rehabilitation, resurfacing, and routine maintenance components of the States' 1992-96 road programs,
defined on the basis of appropriate network maintenance strategies, economic criteria, and methodologies.
The DERs have, in the course of project preparation, developed n.-twork maintenance strategies and
programs on the basis of methodologies which follow the HDM3 general methodology and are consistent
with the technological and institutional development levels of the respective DERs and with the available
network information. In general, the selected maintenance strategies consist of carrying out:
(a) resurfacing works on sections which otherwise would soon reach a level of deterioration requiring
extensive rehabilitation, through appropriate slurry seal, surface treatment, or asphalt concrete overlay
techniques, depending upon traffic levels; (b) pavement rehabilitation works on sections which have
already reached or exceeded their lifetime, through appropriate techniques ranging from asphalt concrete
overlays to complete reconstruction of pavement; and (c) routine maintenance works as needed, including
through patching of potholes and maintenance of drainage systems, shoulders, and signalling on the entire
paved networks. The specific maintenance strategies of the respective DERs are discussed in sections C,
Annexes 2 and 6. The States intend to carry out their entire rehabilitation programs over a period of
about five years. Assuming that the size of the States' annual road budgets would remain close to past
averages, the construction programs have been adjusted to reflect these objectives as well as the
maintenance requirements. The resulting pluriannual programs are summarized in Tables no. 2.5 and 6.5
in Annexes 2 and 6. It is expected, however, that due to the current lack of adequate information on the
condition of the networks and insufficient analytical capabilities of the DERs, the periodic maintenance
programs will not be fully adequate until the pavement management systems included in the action plans
are in operadon; and consequently, additional sections will further deteriorate to the point where they will
need rehabilitation. The maintenance strategies and programs will therefore be reviewed and updated
annually on the basis of the gradually improved information and analytical tools of the pavement
management systems, implementation progress and updated funding expectations; and they will be
presented to the Bank for review as part of the previously defined annual updates of the States' road
programs.
3.11   The scope of the investment components have been defined on the basis of the above-mentioned
pluriannual road programs. The four subproiects combined would have an aggregated scope of about 950
Ian for rehabilitation and about 1,400 km for resurfacing. The scope of the individual subprojects is
detailed in Tables 3.1 and 7.1 in Annexes 3 and 7, and is summarized in the table below.
Table 3.1: Scope of Investment Comnonents of Subprojects
(Kilometers)
Subproject          Rehabilitation   Resurfacing  Total
Alagoas                      378          492      870
Santa Catarina               548          900     1448
Total                        926         1392     2318



- 17 -
C.  roject CAt and Financing
3.12   The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$224.3 million equivalent, including
US$167.7 million for rehabilitation and resurfacing, US$51.2 million for routine maintenance and US$5.4
million equivalent for technical assistance and training programs. The foreign exchange cost component
is estimated at about US$89.8 million, or 40%, and the tax component at about US$31.5 million, or
14%. The total project cost includes physical contingencies for US$14.0 million or about 7% of base
cost, and price contingencies for US$14.2 million (or about 7% of base cost plus physical contingencies),
estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule and of the following forecast of price escalation for
both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in 1993-94 and 3.8%
thereafter. Cost estimates for civil works are based on average per-kilometer costs supported by
engineering estimates and recent cottract prices. Cost estimates for consultant services are based on
prevailing local and foreign man-month rates. The estimated costs of the individual subprojects are
detailed in Tables 3.4 and 7.4 in Annexes 3 and 7, and are summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Estimated SubproJect and Project Costs and Financing
(US$ million equivalent)
Subproject Costs                  Local     Foreign       Total
Alagoas                            45.5        30.4        75.9
Santa Catarina                     72.1        48.1       120.2
Total Base Cost                   117.6        78.5       196.1
Physical Contingencies              8.4         5.6        14.0
Price Contingencies                 8.5         5.7        14.2
Total Project Cost                134.5        89.8       224.3
Financing Plan          State Government      Bank        Total
Alagoas                            50.5        38.0        88.5
Santa Catarina                     85.8        50.0       135.8
Total                             136.3        88.0       224.3
3.13. The project would be financed from the proposed two Bank loans totalling US$88.0 million (or
39% of the project cost) and from the respective States' own resources for US$136.3 million (or 61%
of the project cost). The corresponding financing plans of the separate subprojects are detailed in
Tables 3.4 and 7.4 in Annexes 3 and 7, and are summarized in Table 3.2 above. During loan
negotiations, agreement was reached with each State Government on: (a) the Borrower's guarantee
regarding the necessary subproject counterpart funds; and, in order to permit the implementation of
urgent subprojects, (b) retroactive financing in an amount of not more than 10% of the loan amount for
civil worls, goods, and consultant and training expenditures incurred not earlier than twelve months
before the date of the loan agreement.



-18-
D. Prolect Environmental Imiact and Economic Evaluation
3.14 Environmental Impact. The project, which consists of the maintenance or rehabilitation of
existing roads, will not have a significant impact on the environment. Possible adverse effects could,
nevertheless, result from quarrying, borrow pits, or the disposal of used pavement materials. In order
to reduce or mitigate such effects, the DERs have completed appropriate environmental assessments of
the first-year program, and they will, as part of the above-mentioned environmental action program,
introduce appropriate norms and specifications in the contracts for engineering and civil works, and carry
out adequate supervision and control.
3.15   Project Benefits. The project, by helping to reduce the deterioration of existing state highway
networks and improve the maintenance of state roads, would: (a) avoid further losses of valuable capital
in public roads; and (b) substantially reduce the cost of road transport on state roads, and consequently
support the resumption of growth in agriculture, industry and exports. It would also contribute to:
(c) enhanced accountability and more efficient use of public resources in the highway subsector; and
(d) mitigation of adverse environmental impacts of highway construction and maintenance.
3.16  Economic Evaluation. An economic analysis has been carried out for the identified rehabilitation
and resurfacing works included in the first-year programs of the two states. The methodology followed
is that of the HDM m model, which was used together with the recently developed HDM Manager
program. The roads characteristics, alternative maintenance policies and standards, the costs of works
and of vehicle operation are presented, together with the results of the analysis, in Annexes 4 and 8
respectively for the Alagoas and the Santa Catarina Subprojects. The estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) of the first-year rehabilitation and resurfacing program is 60% (54% for the Alagoas Subproject
and 66% for the Santa Catarina Subproject). The proposed works on the individual road links have
estimated ERR ranging from 23% to 92%. The sensitivity analysis has shown in particular that the
investment costs would have to be increased by over 100% in Santa Catarina and by over 50% in Alagoas
to reduce the ERR to 12%, which would still be acceptable.
E. Erjlect Risks
3.17   Possible risks include ineffective management of subprojects by the DERs, insufficient provision
of budgetary resources by the States, and inadequate coordination and monitoring of the project by
DNER. To minimize these risks, the experience acquired with the previous highways and feeder roads
projects has been incorporated into the project's design. In particular, the project would provide for:
(a) well-defined subproject implementation programs and organizational arrangements, including the
strengthening of the DERs' key planning and control systems; and (b) consistent annual reviews of the
States' road expenditure programs and funding plans at the time of budget preparation. Also, DNER's
existing unit responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the project would be strengthened with
adequate technical assistance and training under the ongoing Highway Management and Rehabilitation
Project (Loan no. 3169-BR). In addition, a mid-term, detailed review of the subprojects' implementation,
which would provide for appropriate Bank remedies, including suspension of disbursements or loan
cancellation, if performance is not satisfactory, would be carried out by the end of 1994.



- 19 -
IV. ErU RLNNA
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.01   The State Governments, through the DERs, would be directly responsible for implementing the
respective subprojects, in accordance with: (a) organizational arrangements (section B);
(b) Implementation Programs (section C); (c) procurement arrangements (section D); (d) disbursement,
account and audit arrangements (section E); and (e) subproject monitoring and reporting arrangements
(para. 4.11), for which detailed guidelines are provided in the Operational Manual (OM). They would
enter into separate loan agreements with the Bank, which would specify all the above.
4.02  The Federal Government, besides guaranteeing the loans, would, through DNER, provide
technical guidance and training programs to the DERs, and perform a first level of p )ject coordination
and monitoring functions, in accordance with: (a) organizational arrangements (section B); and (b) a
Supervision and Monitoring Plan (section F). The Federal Government would, for each loan, enter into
a separate guarantee agreement with the Bank. DNER, which is already committed under the Highways
Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR) to perform the above functions, including
to provide technical guidance and training to the states, would enter into separate project agreements with
each DER, which would specify the respective responsibilities of DNER and the DERs in implementing
and monitoring the project.
B. Organizational Arraneemenk
4.03  The DERs have set up appropriate organizational arrangements to carry out the subprojects;
subproject execution responsibilities would be distributed according to the specific organization of each
DER (Annexes 5 and 9). Each DER has established and would maintain an appropriately staffed Project
Management Unit (PMU) headed by a qualified and experienced Project Manager, who reports directly
to the DER's Director-General. Each DER has also established a Pavement Management System (PMS)
Committee with representatives from the various organizational units involved, to coordinate the
development and implementation of the PMS. With these arrangements, the DERs have the capabilities
to carry out the respective subprojects efficiently. During loan negotiations, it was agreed with each State
Government that the DER would maintain organizational arrangements for subproject execution
satisfactory to the Bank, including: (a) a Project Management Unit, with TOR and staffing, and headed
by a Project Manager with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) a Pavement
Management System Committee with TOR and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
4.04 DNER has, under the Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR),
established an organizational unit to assist the DERs in developing and implementing appropriate road
maintenance policies, strategies and programs, and in strengthening their pavement and maintenance
management systems. The unit has already assisted the DERs in preparing the proposed subprojects, has
prepared the Operational Manual, and has helped to prepare the training programs and environmental
guidelines. In order to strengthen this unit for the purpose of carrying out its project coordination and
monitoring functions effectively, DNER is in the process of contracting adequate technical assistance and
a training program under the above-mentioned project. During loan negotiations, it was agreed with the
Federal Govermment and each State Govenment that: (a) each DER would enter into a separate project
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with DNER to specify the respective responsibilities of DNER and



-20 -
the DER in implementing and monitoring the project; and (b) the signing of the project agreements would
be a condition of effectiveness of the respective loans.
4.05 DNER is currentli preparing, under the Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project, to
carry out training programs opened to DER personnel In the following areas: (a) network maintenance
planning and pavement management systems, Including design and implementation of such systems,
techniques of pavement diagnostics, design and rehabilitation, economic evaluation of maintenance
strategies, and use of the HDM III model; (b) contract maintenance and maintenance administration
systems, including procurement, management and supervision of contracts, and monitoring of projects
and programs; and (c) environmental control, including environmental cost-benefit analyses and
dissemination of environmental guidelines for highways. It was agreed with each State Government durlng
loan negotiations that the DER would, by October 31 each year, prepare in consultation with DNER and
present to the Bank for comments, with copy to DNER, a training program for the following year, and,
taking into account the comments of the Bank, thereafter implement it.
C. ImpIlemenlation Programs
4.06  The State Goverments are committed to carry out their subprojects in accordance with the
Implementation Programs (IP) which are presented in Annexes 5 and 9 respectively for the Alagoas and
the Santa Catarina subprojects, were conflrmed during loan negotiations, and are summarized hereafter.
(A) Policy and Institutional Development PrograM
1. Preparation and Review of State Road Programs and Budgets:
(a)  The DER will prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure and funding programs in
accordance with policies and economic criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, satisfactory
to the Bank, and with the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing targets set forth in the table below;
and, by July 31 each year, present such programs to the Bank for comments.
(b) The Borrower will take into account the DER's programs and the Bank's comments in preparing
its annual budget proposals, and, as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds to meet the agreed
rehabilitation and resurfacing targets, and the agreed amount for the routine maintenance of the
paved roads.
2. Development and Implementation of a Pavement Management System:
(a)  The DER will prepare a detailed action program, including a timetable, to develop and implement
a pavement management system for the purpose of improving the planning and monitoring of
network maintenance strategies and programs, and present it to the Bank for review and
comments by June 30, 1993.
(b)  The DER will, taking into account Ze comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter implement the
acton program, which will be completed by September 30, 1994.
3. Design and ImplementatIon of Plan for Contract Maintenance:
(a) The DER will design a plan, including a timetable, to undertake and/or gradually increase routine
maintenance activities by contractors, and to reduce force account capacities; and present it to the
Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1993 (Santa Catarina) or January 31, 1994 (Alagoas).



-21 -
(b) The DER will, taking into account the comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter implement the
plan, which will be completed by September 30, 1997.
4. hnprovement of Contract Management and Program Monitoring Systems:
(a) The DER will prepare a detailed action program to strengthen its administrative systems for
contract management and program monitoring, including monitoring of the subproject, and for
reporting progress to the Bank, in accordance with guidelines included in the Operational Manual;
and present it to the Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1993.
(b)  The DER will, taking into account the comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter start the
implementation of the action program, which will be completed by September 30, 1993.
S. Strengthening of Environmental Management:
(a)  The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have prepared state environmental guidelines for highways
and for transport, taking into account the environmental guidelines for highways prepared by
DNER, those for the transport sector prepared by GEIPOT, and the Federal and State
environmental protection standards.
(b) The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have strengthened the environmental units in the DER and
in the State's Transport Secretariat with adequately-trained staff to implement the state
environmental guidelines.
(c)  The DER will, from June 30, 1993, carry out appropriate environmental impact assessments of
all its major road programs and projects.
6. Technical Assistance and Training of Staff:
(a) The DER, in order to carry out the above action programs efficiently, will contract one or several
consulting firms in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981)
and on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The DER will, by October 31 each year, prepare in consultation with DNER and present to the
Bank for comments, with a copy to DNER, a training program for the following year, and,
taking into account the comments of the Bank, thereafter implement it.
(B) Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Programs
7. Selection, Preparation and Economic Evaluation of the Investments:
(a)  The DER will select the road segments to be included in the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing
programs on the basis of: (i) the agreed network maintenance strategy and pluriannual program,
as periodically updated and refined and consistent with the development of the pavement
management system; C1) funding expectations for the given year; and (iii) technical and economic
criteria and methodologies specified in the Operational Manual.
O)  Prior to initiating the detailed engineering designs for each investment, the DER will prepare and
submit to the Bank, with a copy to DNER, a draft application providing information on the
proposed investmnent in a form specified in the Operational Manual. The Bank will approve the



- 22 -
financing of the engineering designs under the loan on the basis of the review of the draft
applications.
(c)  After completing the detailed engineering and prior to contracting the works, the DER will update
and finalize the applications as required to reflect the more accurate traffic projections, the
selected engineering solutions, and the final cost estimates, and present them to the Bank, with
a copy io DNER. The Bank will approve the implementation and financing of the investments
under the loan on the basis of the review of the iinal application forms.
(d)  All the investments included in the subprojects would have estimated economic internal rates of
return exceeding 12%.
8. Preparation and Monitoring of Procurement and Execution Programs:
(a)  The DER will prepare annual procurement and execution programs for the subproject
investments, as specified in the Operational Manual, and consistent with its annual and
pluriannual expenditure and funding programs; and by October 31 of each year present them to
the Bank, with a copy to DNER, for comments.
(b)  The DER will monitor the implementation of the annual procurement and execution programs,
and inform DNER and the Bank through quarterly progress reports, as specified in the
Operational Manual, and against the following procurement and execution targets (in kilometers):
Table 4.1: Project Procurement and Eetion TaMgt
(Km of roads, total of two subprojects)
Program item   Activity      1992    1993      1994      1995      1996
Rehabilitation   Contracted   141     311       265       179        30
Executed        28      230       317      217       134
Resurfacing   Contracted      220     331       305       350       186
Executed       119      259       341      340       333
D. Procurement Arrangements
4.07  Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.2 hereinafter:
4.08  All civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Civil works
contracts below US$5.0 million, up to an aggregate amount of US$65.0 million, would be procured
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, based on a typical set of documentation reviewed
by the Bank during appraisal and found satisfactory, and which would be included in the Operational
Manual (OM). The value of individual civil works contracts is expected to vary between US$1.0 and
US$10.0 million for rehabilitation and between US$0.1 and US$2.0 million for resurfacing (total cost
about US$159.6 million). Miscellaneous equipment and tools for the pavement management system
component would be purchased by local shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations, in
packages not exceeding US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million; LCB procedures
would be used for contracts for goods exceeding US$50,000 and below US$250,000 in the event that



-23 -
such contracts were to come up during project implementation. Consultants for detailed engineering,
construction supervision, technical assistance and training programs would be selected and engaged
following Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
Table 4.2: Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Element             ICB       LCB          Other     n.b.f I/     Total
Civil Works                 94.6       65.0            -        51.2     210.8
(47.3)    (32.5)                              (79.8)
Equipment                                 -          1.3           -        1.3
(1.3)                 (1.3)
Consultants and Training       -          -         12.2           -       12.2
(6.9)                 (6.9)
Total                       94.6       65.0         13.5        51.2     224.3
(Bank financed)            (47.3)    (32.5)        (8.2)           -     (88.0)
[/ not Bank-financed, routine maintenance works
4.09 The DERs are the principal implementing agencies, responsible for carrying out the subprojects,
including all procurement. The DERs' organization for and experience with procurement have been
reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory. The Borrowers' procurement regulations and procedures
have recently been reviewed and found acceptable for all methods of procurement proposed under the
project. All contracts for goods estimated to be the equivalent of US$250,000 or more, and all ICB and
the first two LCB contracts for civil works, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding
documents. The balance of contracts would be subject to random ex-post review by the Bank after
contract awards. The above procurement arrangements were confirmed with each State Government
during loan negotiations.
E. Disbursement, Account and Audit Arrangements
4.10 Within the 50% of cost sharing, net of taxes and duties, the Bank would disburse for: (a) civil
works, at the rate of 50% of expenditures; (b) equipment, at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost, excluding taxes); and (c) consultant services and staff
training at the rates of 50% of local expenditures and 100% of foreign expenditures. The allocations of
the proceeds of each loan are shown in Annexes 5 and 9. Based upon experience with similar projects
and the relevant standard profile for highway projects, the implementation period for the project is
estimated at six years (Table 6, Annex 1).
4.11   In order to reduce the interval during which the Borrowers would finance the Bank's share of
subproject cost with their own resources, the State Governments would establish Special Accounts (SA)
in US dollars in commercial banks to cover local and foreign currency expenditures of the subprojects.
The Bank would deposit up to US$2.3 million in the SA for Alagoas and up to US$4.0 million in the SA



-24 -
for Santa Catarina. The Bank would replenish the Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on
account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrowers. The Borrowers' DERs have adequate
accounting control to enable disbursement to be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Supporting documentation with respect to expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$5.0 million
for civil works and US$250,000 equivalent for goods, would be retained by the DERs, be available for
inspection during project supervision missions, and be subject to auditing by the DERs' external auditors.
Expenditures for contracts above these limits would be documented. During loan negotiations, agreement
was reached with each State Government on: (a) the above disbursement arrangements; and (b) the DERs
to retain independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit their accounts, including the project
accounts, financial statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures, and to furnish the
auditors reports to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan
4.12 The DERs would, as part of their action programs to strengthen contract management and program
monitoring, establish an appropriate system to monitor the implementation of the subprojects, including
to produce adequate information to report to DER management and to the Bank, in accordance with the
specifications included in the OM. During negotiations, it was agreed with each State Government that
the DER would establish an appropriate project monitoring system and prepare and forward to the Bank,
with a copy to DNER, quarterly progress reports satisfactory to the Bank, not later than one month after
the end of each quarter.
4.13 DNER would perform first-stage project coordination and monitoring functions including the review
of the following documents: (a) application forms for investments included in the annual rehabilitation
and resurfacing programs; (b) annual procurement and execution programs; (c) procurement
documentation for civil works and equipment; (d) terms of reference, invitation letters, short-lists and
draft contracts for consultant services; and (e) DER quarterly progress reports; and would forward
comments to the Bank. DNER project staff would also participate in the Bank's supervision missions, and
gradually contribute to the missions' work program.
4.14 The Bank would retain full responsibility for approving all the above documents and related actions
by the DERs, taking into account DNER comments. The Bank would supervise and monitor the
implementation of the project, with assistance from DNER, in accordance with the Monitoring and
Supervision Plan presented in Annex 10; the estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities,
which are shown in the table of this annex, take into consideration the expected support from DNER, as
well as the need for DNER staff training to carry out their tasks.
4.15 The implementation of subprojects will be monitored against the set of actions and timetable, and
against the procurement and execution targets, which are recorded in the Implementation Programs. Mid-
term, detailed reviews of the implementation of the subprojects will be carried out by the end of 1994.
The reviews will cover all the atgreed actions, targets dates, and execution targets included in the
Implementation Programs and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement.
Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrowers' commitments to provide adequate funds for
maintenance, including counterpart funds for the subprojects; and (b) the DERs' performance under the
agreed institutional development programs. The Bank would have the right to exercise appropriate
remedies, including suspension of disbursements or cancellation if the Borrower has defaulted under the
funding condition and/or the DER performance under the action programs is not satisfactory.



- 25 -
VI. AGREEMB_ADCQMMRMA3Q
5.01   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the State Governments and/or the Federal
Government on the following:
(a)    preparation and annual review of the States' pluriannual and annual road expenditure and
funding programs, budget proposals, and related policies, criteria and implementation
targets (paras. 3.07, 4.06-1);
(b)   the DERs to develop and implement: (i) pavement management systems; (ii) plans to
contract out maintenance; and (ii) contract management and project monitoring systems
(paras. 3.08, 406-2-3-4);
(c)   the Borrowers to prepare environmental guidelines, strengthen their environmental units
to implement them, and to carry out environmental assessments for their road projects
(paras. 3.09, 4.06-5);
(d)   the DERs to prepare and present annual staff training programs (paras. 4.05, 4.06-6);
(e)   criteria and methodologies for selection, preparation and economic evaluation of project
investments (para. 4.06-7);
(k)    Borrowers' guarantees for counterpart funds, and retroactive financing arrangements
(para. 3.13);
(g)    organizational arrangements for subproject implementation by DERs (para. 4.03);
On)   satisfactory project agreements between DERs and DNER (para. 4.04);
(i)   Implementation Programs (para. 4.06);
j)    procurement arrangements (para. 4.08);
(k)    disbu Sement, account;g and audit arrangements (paras. 4.09-4.10);
(I)    monitoring and reporting arrangements (para. 4.114.13); and
(m)   mid-term review of project implementation (para. 4.14).
5.02   The following would be conditions for effectiveness of each loan:
(a)    DNER and the DER have entered into the project agreement (para. 4.04); and
(b)   the Borrower has provided sufficient budgetary funds for the first year road rehabilitation
and maintenance program (para. 3.13).



t
-26-
5.03   Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for the following Bank loans:
(a)    a loan of US$38.0 million to the State of Alagoas; and
(b)   a loan of US$50.0 million to the State of Santa Catarina.
The terms would be 15 years, including five years of grace.
December 1, 1992



-27 -                                         Annex 1
Table 1
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECr
National Transportadon Expenditures by Mode'
(USS M;llion)
PASSENGER              USS_.   |                      CARGO               USSm.          %
AIR                               1927          7  AIR                               572            2
- Domestc                          706          3    D Domestc                        173           1
regular                          665           2    regulr                          165            1
nregioa                           41           0    regional                          8           0
* International                 1221           5    Inntenational                   399            2
_~~~~~~~ ____________ -o                                   ____      -      -11___
A][RPORTS                          104          0  RAIL                              888            4
0  -RFFSA                            873           2
RAIL                               99           0  -FEPASA                           151            1
-I nteruban                         25          0  -EFVM                              164           1
- Suburban                          32          0                             _
. MCeo                              42          0  ROAD                            20215           80
0  -*Tuck                          20215          80
ROAD                             24816         92    urban                          7982           32
-Bus                              3543         13   intermunicipa                   6378           25
urban                           1868           7    ifTntesa+indl                  S8S           23
inennloll               -       1213           5                              _
interata+inl         _           461           2                            _I
- Auto                           21273         79  PORTS (Portobras)                 338            1
_ ________ .WATER                                         3142           12
_-inland                          81           0
- oustwise                       306           1
- internadond                   2756          11
TOTAL                   26946         100           TOTAL                  25156         100
/Aprl 1985 Data
Souroes:     Awsuic EVttiMio dos Tanup. - GEIPOT
P}rf dus Emprsas Estbt  - SEST/SEPLAN 1985
Empresa de Trnsp. Rodoviuo - FB3  1984
Ehtudo obre o Trnamp. Rodoviao dc Carg - GEInPT 1985
S  IM



-28 -                                                 AnnexI
Table 2
ETAs }WAY AAGMR PROMT
Bmzil's Road Vehicle Fleet
(In Thousand8)
CLASS                       1980         198S        1986        1987         1988        1989         1990       1991
CARS                        715S        9S27        10065       10332        10644       10498       10704       10964
BUSES                        103          130         13S         142          151         145         148         1S7
PICKUPS                      676         90S          987        1030         1081        1134         1190       1247
TRUCKS                       826         979          103        1074         1108        1061         1064       1067
-DOM"euo                     819         972         1032         1068        1101        105S         1058       1061
-Smil                       147          201         223          238         251         253          260         267
-Modium                     461          49f         498          499         500         457          446         435
-semi-Hesvy                 126          178         207          222         236         233          237         241
-Hsevy                       79           93          99          103         109         107          109         112
-Nou-oxxio                    4            4           4            4           4           4            4           4
-1imo,1d                      7            6           6            6           6           6            6           6
Sour_:       A_alo Saauo do. Tr_orte, GEaswr  1986, ad mWose
Stmber 1992



- 29-                                          Annex 1
Table 3
LRZ
STATE EIIGHW-AY MANAGM4NT POI
Evoludon of National and TranM=Ikn AMegab 1970-1990
__ _Gram Product
YT           GOP                                                 Diwel           TKM    PASSAM
londi     Acukure    Industry    Tport   Consumption                (Gdpot)    (Geipot)
1970        100          100           100         100              100           100         100
1971        111          110           111         11S              110           109         113
1972        12S          11S           125         124              126           116         119
1973        142          115           145         148              149           133         147
1974        154          116           160         170              165           1S9         167
1975        162          124           168         187              184           174         190
1976        178          127           187         211              212           189         217
1977        187          142           197         224              227          208          253
1978        196          138          209          243              248          226          289
1979       210           14S          22S          267              270          247          238
1980       229           159          24S          287              290          269          374
1981       219           171          240          282              281          2S9          389
1982       220           170          24S          287              287          267          405
1983       212           169          243          281              283          268          421
1984       224           175          2S3          293              192           196         438
1985       241           193          269          312              204          327          456
1986       260           177          291          347              342          3SS          476
1987       269           204          301          363              362            ma          na
1988       269           205          308          379              375            as          ma
1989       278           211          320          393              385            oa           ma
1990       267           203          318          382              378             a           Ma
Ave^_An  Gowt R
70.80        8.6          4.7           9.4        11.1             11.2          10.1         14.1
80.90        1.5          2.S           2.6         2.9              2.7
70.90        5.0          3.6           5.9         6.9              6.9           8.2         10.2
AbsoluI 472,000          162,000      268,000       14,000           25,000      462,000      552,000
Sonts:       Ambo Eabo dog Tnspos - Oepoe
Anuso EDsAdsc do CNP
For la& knowm year In wos" Of 1990 us dolar
_- ,IM



-30 -                                              Annex I
Table 4
mEi~~~~~~~~ of thWe Stt
A"e         ~174      174      63       411      152.6    0.4         79      145      52        8        41
Asnpa,            100     200      200      Soo       139.1    0.2        29      104      So       25        2S
Auuunag          384      435        4      823      1SS9.0    1.8       302      237      7S       26         O
PUSr            2101    3S68       846     6S1S      1227.5    4.S        123      91       96       3          1
Rondonia          96    1340        42      14S1      243.0    0.9       126      90S      100       O         O
Roria             100     900    1000      2000       230.1    0,1        13        O       SO      2S        25
subtotal        292      6617    21SS    11700       3SSI.3    7.9
NorthW
Abgo"       1332      838     S03      2673       27.7    2.3        416      S83      30       40        30
8AW             6471    6721    2270    15462         560.0   10.9       322      569       so      30-       20
Cea             3736    4266       173     817S       146.8    6.0       311      453       S       57        38
Marnao           8?j    3800         O     4623       324.6    4.8       208      37S      67       24         9
Pmf              1574    1S72    1038      4148       56.4    3.1        234      430      36       4420
Pen _buo        2528     1211     480      4219       98.3    6.9        S29      719      2S       Si        24
Piod         1197S I   632         348     79SS       2SO.9    2,S       139      2Z8      30       40        30
Rio G. Ne   i  1745 1 680          851     3276        S3.0    2.2       14S      190       10      65        25
Swgitm           1320 j1472        137     2929        22.0    1.3       277      208       60      27         13
Subwtol         21666    25354    6031    S30SI      l539.6   39.8
Soutu
Esp. at          1943    121S    148S      4643       4S.6    2.3        SOS      775       80       7         13
WM" G.          61S7    8196    61SS    20508         S82.6   14.9       798    2114       SO       32         is
Rio de Janeio   2219      693    2006      4918        43.3   13.0      1299      6SS       19      74         8
Sao Pauo        17460     79S    1132    19387        247.3   30.2      3689    439S       43       41         17
Subtotal        277791 10899   10778 1494S6           918.8   60.4
Southi 
Pk=             9117    2177       SOS    11799       199.1    8.3       177      197       57      32         11
Rio G. Sul      4300    S900               10200      267.5    8.6       1668    3800      62       24         14
S. Cabina       2630    2639         O     5269        95.5    4.2       633      893       45      24        31
Sublo           14111, 11702       873    26686       562.1   21.1
C. Wesf
D. Pohwl         64S       91      811     IS47                1.6      2255    4519        49      39         13
Goias           S030    8195   12677    25902         647.8   4CS        281      817       67      12         21
M. Groo          112    10791    Site    17031        881.0    1.5        at      25S       74      224
M. Gwoz Sul    1723    496S    7S14    14202          3SO S    1.6       225      498      21       S9        20
Subtota          8520 124042   26120    SS682        1879.4 19.3              1                        1
Tolr Brol      7S004 I78614   4S957   199S75 I 84S1.2 I138S              1623
Sauou    ABDBR (Netw/or, ConutnsCe afi) IB       GBTWha)
I/ 1986 DUN *apet fobr Al40Zo, MaoD Grow de Sul, Rio Grnde do Sul and Sat Cwrm wkch we990 or 1991 das.
to-19bw2



- 31-                                             Annex I
Table S
EBRZ
Sye of Rod U
TXor                     TAX AN A
-EME           S[ATE
1.  Vebicle Owngsin Tax  Alcobol cm:  2% of car value p1.               0           50%           50%
(IPVA)                   Gaol  oar: 3%  Idem.  Valuo for
Aual Tax for licenses    diesel tuck  and  motorccles
atandadl.
2.      lwmIonlimportedpetroleumpoduots.                               100%           0             0
3.  Vlue Added Ta                                                       0            75%           25%
(ICMS)
Tax  on  circution  of
merchandise and intestat
and  intermunicipal
tansport serices
Interstate/llntermunicipal  17% on firight                         0            75%           25%
traport service.         17% on pauar ratos
Nual                     17%  on alcohol, diesd, gaoline and
luWbicat pdcie [2]
4.  SalsTaM                   Maximum  limit of 3% on the gasolne       0             0           100%
(WV)                     and alohol pump price (Diesd-oil
Municipal tax on alcohol  exempted
and gaoline sles
asu:       GEIFOT
RAte. are fbr Rio d. Sel_IhO_ta. heMUe Ca VaY in odW AIe.
9o0e i h  a difbfent a.
tsmb 9IM



32-                                           Annex-
Table 6
DRAM
Loan Disbursent Schedules
B    pi" Yorr          Quutdy                                   Quadedy
and OD                       iEdm  ibtm  Cuxuhlaio Dibumn     DibuMmr    Cuhie  Dib uan
(US$ umilon)     (UlS$ milior) S of ToXl    (USS nillon)   (Us$ rnilio)(% ToftOd
Sagnmber 30, IM∞
December 31 IM9
March 31, IM9           2.3 s12.3                       6          5.0 v          5.0          10
Juneo30, IM9              0.7             3.0           8           1.0           6.0          12
FY 1994
_etebr30, IM9             1.0             4.0          11           1.0           7.0          14
Deceber3l, IM∞            1.0             5.0          13           1.0           8.0          Is
M - h 31, 1994            1.0             6.0          16           1.0           9.0          to
Sum 30, 19∞4              1.0             7.0          is           1.0          10.0          20
Sepeber30, 1994           2.0             9.0          24           2.0          12.0          24
Deceber31, 1994           2.0             11.0         29           3.0          IS.0          30
Mch 31, 1995              2.0             13.0         34           S.0          20.0          40
June 30, 1995             3.0            16.0          42           S.0          2S.0          so
FY 1996
Stepmbr 30. 1995          3.0             19.0         so           4.0          29.0          se
Dwbr 31, 1995            3.0             22.0          58           3.0          32.0          64
Match 31 1996             2.0             24.0         63           3.0          35.0          70
JWwo 30, *996             2.0             26.0         68           3.0          38.0          76
FY 197 
Sqneber30, 1996          2.0             28.0          74           2.0          40.0          so
Decamber31, 1996          2.0             30.0         79           2.0          42.0          84
Mucb 31, 1997             2.0             32.0         84           2.0          44.0          88
Jlune30, IM9              2.0             34.0         89           2.0          46.0          92
FY 1998
Scptember30, 1997         1.0             35.0         92           1.0          47.0          94
Dftc_br31, 1997           1.0             36.0         95           1.0          48.0          96
Mrcbh31, 1998             1.0             37.0         97           1.0          49.0          9
Sum 30, 1998              1.0             38.0         100          1.0          50.0         100
I1 US2.3 rSion depoorit so SpecW Acoun.
V blaho US$4 0 msioln depo isso Spe;a Acount.
November IM9



- 33                                   Annex 2
DEZI
Alagoas State Road Network. AgenCX and Program
A. The Road Network
1.    Network ClassIitcation. The state has about 15,000 kn of roads, of which about 2,050 km are
paved. Ihere are. about 2,700 km of roads under the state's jurisdiction, of which only 1,332 km (i.e.
about 50%) are paved. The Government is therefore giving a high priority to paving programs. The state
has also assumed responsibility for the maintenance of 8.2 km of a federal highway through a recent
agreement with the Federal Government. This and other highways are expected to be transferred to the
stae's jurisdiction when the National Congress approves the proposed new National Highway System,
as part of the decentralization program.
Table 2.1: Network Classirication (Kmn)
PAVED       CRAVEL      PLANNED        TOTAL
FEDERAL          674           95           74           843
STATE         1332         838           503         2673
MUNICIPAL          49          9919         1194         11162
TOTAL         20SS        10852         1771         14678
2.    Traffic. The bulk of the traffic (about 85% of the vehicle-kms) is on the paved portion of the
state network. The average daily traffic (ADI) on the paved network is low (about 900 vehicles per day,
vpd as an average), and about 40% of the network has an ADT below 1,000 vpd. Traffic, however, is
relatively heavy on about 20% of the network, which is where pavements have deteriorated most. The
following table shows the distribution of the network by traffic categories.
Table 2.2: Distributlon of Network according to Traffic
ADT(vpd)           KM              % of TOTAL
TI               0/5W00           332                    25
12             S00/1000            189                   IS
T3            10002000            521                    40
T4            2000/3000            82                     6
TS            3000/4000            187                   14
T6              >4000
TOTAL                                 1311                  100



-34-                                    Annex 2
3.    Network Chaasterbls. lhe state network is reatively old since more than 40% of the paved
network is over 15 years old. Pavements are essetally made of surface treatments (on 84% of the
network length).
Table 2.3!, Age and Nature of Paemnents
Agoyn)         bn             %                    Natur                     %
0/5        186            14                   con* 
5/IS        400            30             aphalt conomW          204     16
10/15       213             16              cold pmiA
>1S         533            40             wrfm big".            1272     84
4.    Network M aintnae Conditon. A survey of the maintenance condition c f the paved network,
which was carried out in 1990 for the preparation of the project, has shown that 30% of the network was
qualified In good condition, and assntially required routine maintenance; 40% was qualified in regular
condition, and essentially required resurfacing; and 30% was qualified in poor condition, and required
substantial rehabilitation or reconstruction work. The following table shows the results of the survey, in
the form of the distribution of the network in traffic x condition categories, which are consistent with the
network characterisdcs and traffic.
Table 2.4: DistrIbution of Network In Traffic x Condition CAtroesol
TRAPPIC     GOOD       REGULAR       BAD      TOTAL         s              AC
Ti        66           163       76         325       325
12        68            95       77         240       235              5
T3       1S8           175      160         493       404              89
T4        95            62       64         221       101             110
T5                               32          32        32               -
T6                       -                    -         -               -
TCTAL        407           495      409        1311      1107            204
30%          40%       30%       100%        S4X            16%
N: S.T.: luufaa. T _atmt, A.C.: A_I*t Coton4
B. The State Road Afene
S.    Organization.  The State of Alagoas Highway Department (Departamento de Estradas de
Rodagem, DER-AL) was created in 1966 by decree-law no. 2776 as the agency responsible for the roads
under the jurisdiction of the State. DER-AL is under the supervision of the State Secretary for Transport
and Public Works. DER-ALs main functions are to: (i) update the Stt's road plan, including the
municipal network; (U) build, rehabilitate and maintain the staes highiray in ture, directiy or
thrugh contra; and (iii) replte road trasportation in the state. DER-AL is headed by a Dire<tor-
Generd and five [ireXrs for Civil Works, Maintnance, Planning, Finances and Adminion. Thwre



-35-                                  Annex 2
are five districts which report directly to the Director General. The present organizational structure is
shown in Chart 2.1 attached to this Annex.
6.    Planning and Flnandng. The state's road programs are funded essentially from the State's
general revenue. Annual programs and budgets are prepared jointly by DER-AL and the State Secretariat
for Transport and Public Works based on: (i) a financial limit and parameters (e.g., projected inflation)
previously indicated by the State Secretary of Planning; (ii) current expense projections; and, (iii)
perceived needs for rehabilitation, maintenance and construction or paving of roads, which are specified
by section. Generally, there is little technical and no economic analysis prior to obtaining a budget
allocation for a given project. The budget proposal is then reviewed by the State Secretary of Planning,
and subsequently submitted to the State Congress. Because of the very low density of paved highways,
there is a very strong demand for paving and new construction investments, at the expense of
rehabilitation and maintenance. DER-AL's planning capabilities will be strengthened under the project
so as to enable it to prepare and monitor pluriannual and annual programs and budgets on the basis of
appropriate technical and economic criteria (Annex 3, para. 3).
7.    Maintenance Planning and Monitoring. DER-AL lacks appropriate information on the condition
of the network for planning and monitoring purpose. Pavement condition surveys are carried out, but the
data is very subjective and depends essentially on the experience of the field and laboratory engineers.
Since the types of degradations are not specifically identified, it is difficult or impossible to make a
reliable diagnosis of the problems associated with the degradation. There are few efforts to make such
diagnostics, and standard remedies are generally applied without a clear understanding of the problems.
DER-AL does some routine maintenance by force account, but it can contract labor from private
contractors to increase its routine maintenance capacity. There is insufficient data to analyze the cost of
such routine maintenance activities. DER-AL's maintenance planning and monitoring capabilities will be
strengthened under the project, and a pilot, routine maintenance project will be implemented in one of
the five districts. The comparative efficiency of contract versus force account maintenance will be
assessed in order to determine the further use of contract maintenance (Annex 3, para. 4).
B.    Managemnent Systems. The existing, organized systems are essentially for administrative
purposes such as payroll and accounting. There is a need to organize the technical and management
systems, including the existing procedures and techniques used for the management of the contracts and
for monitoring the projects and programs. The project will include a component with technical assistance
and training of personnel to develop and implement microcomputer-based information systems for
contract management and project and program monitoring (Annex 3, para. 4).
9.    Environmental Control. DER-AL, as the other DERs, did not develop the capability to
effectively carry out environmental impact analyses nor to design and implement appropriate mitigatory
measures. In order to comply with environmental regulations, DER-AL has been contracting out some
form of environmental impact analyses to consulting firms. ITese analyses are generally aimed at directly
obtaining the necessary approvals from the state environmental agency. However, the State Secretary for
Transport and Public Works and DER-AL have, in the course of the project preparation, established an
Environmental Unit in the DER. The proposed project will include a component with technical assistance
and personnel training to help to organize and strengthen the unit, and to start-up its activities (Annex 3,
para. 5).
10.   Personnel and Training. DER-AL has 1,900 employees, of which 170 are engineers and
economists. About 55% of the staff is at headquarters, with mainly administrative functions. Wages are
far below market prices. The age of the staff is high and motivation is low. Training programs have been



-36 -                                  Annex 2
scarce at all levels. The subproject will include a training component to support the project's objectives,
with priority to advanced technical and in-service training for middle and senior level managers in the
areas of pavement management, highway planning and monitoring, environmental impact analysis and
remedies, and contract management (Annex 3, para. 6).
C. the State HMghway Strateg and Program
11.   Strategy. The Government's strategy is to assign more importance than in the past to the
maintenance of the paved network and, if necessary, to reduce the paving and new construction programs
accordingly. The maintenance strategy emphasizes the timely resurfacing or strengthening of existing
pavements (about 500 kIn), and the rehabilitation of all pavements in poor condition (about 380 km) over
the next five years, and appropriate routine maintenance. It is expected that, with the rehabilitation and
resurfacing programs and the consequent improvement of the network, expenditures for routine
maintenance would gradually decrease. The proposed pavement management system which will be
established under the project will enable a better definition of the network maintenance strategy and
improved expenditure decisions. In the meantime, DER-AL will apply the above strategic principles
together with cost-benefit analyses at the individual project level to select the technical solution with the
highest return and to make sure that no investmnent with a rate of return below 12% will be undertaken.
12. Pluriannual Road Program. A pluriannual road program was developed in the course of the
project's preparation on the basis of the above strategic principles and estimated annual budgets of about
US$40 million equivalent. A summary of the program is shown in the table below.
Table 2.5: PlurWamnual Road Program Summarv (USSmillion)
giM                       19Q2     Im       1994     1995     1996    Tot.      %
Rchab./Reoufaoing          9.0     17.1    21.2      14.8     10.9    72.9      22
Routinc Maiztem            3.5     3.2      3.0      2.3      1.6     13.5      4
Main. Unpaved Net.         1.5      1.4     1.3      1.2      1.2      6.6      a
Paving, Now Cout.         26.0    20.0    20.0    20.0        20.0    100.0     66
Total                     40.0    41.7    45.5       38.3     33.7    193.0    100
13.   Pavement Diagnostic and Standard Technical Solutions. Two major types of deterioradon have
been identified on the state network. Some sections have very substantial geometric deformations, while
others show only surface problems with no significant deformations of the surface. In the first case,
pavement thickness is probably insufficient and the pavement deteriorates through the action of traffic and
water. In the second case, the problem is likely to be related only to the quality of the surface treatment
or the overlay. Five standard technical solutions have been developed on the basis of the existing
infbrmation to prepare the proposed program; these solutions will be reviewed and possibly adjusted as
part of the proposed pavement management system:
standard 1:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay,
20 cm of stabilized soil, and
regraveling and surface treatment on shoulders



-37 -                                 Annex 2
standard 2: 5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay,
7 cm binder, and
regraveling and surface treatment on shoulders
standard 3:  double surface treatment,
20 cm of stabilized soil, and
regraveling and surface treatment on shoulders
standard 4:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay.
regrading and surface treatment on shoulders
standard 5:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay.
regrading and surface treatment on shoulders
standard 6:  double surface treatment, and
regrading and surface treatment on shoulders
Ihe following table shows the possible rehabilitation and resurfacing standard solutions for the different
traffic categories.
Table 2.6: Standard Rehabilitation and Resurfadn. Solutions
Standards             T1 &T2        T3 &T4         T5
resurfacing               6            5            5
rehabilitation          3&4          1&2          1 & 2
November 1992



Chart 2.1: Orgaizaion Chait of DER Alagoas
ITrubp∞rt
I  Secretar y         I
r Administrin~   I    lAdlfnfstr tfon SLupport
Audit Depertment                                                  nComiunicatio
Director                      Service
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Cb 199 t
Dirwctor of   IDlfr ctor of   Director cf                   Lel                         Dlrwctor of               ofDrector of 
Adelnistratlan    Flnnc           PLanning                  Ccunet                      ClvIL Uerbr   |a int nwnce    |
Pro'                                                                                           ofor|    
gDvso      Dvso      Dvsolgliin|gSiln|}Dvso Divi=vso    |Dvfsian   ||Dvso 
STATE
NiGMiY DIMIRCTS
Novs b r 1992



-39 -                                 Annex 3
BRAZL
STATE M1IGIHIAY MAAGEMENT  OT
Alagoas SubproJect Description, Costs and Financing
A. Subgro3ect Desciltlon
1.    Subproject Objectives. The proposed subproject will help to reduce the deterioration of the
State's road network and improve its maintenance condition by: (a) ensuring adequate priority and
funding for the rehabilitation and maintenance versus the new-construction components of the State's road
program; (b) designing and implementing appropriate highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies
and programs, and improving DER-AL effectiveness in maintaining its network through increased reliance
upon contracted rather than force account works and improved management of maintenance activities.
It will also help to: (c) develop and improve compliance with environmental standards for state roads.
The final objective is to contribute to the resumption of economic growth in the State by reducing the cost
of road transport on the highway network.
2.    Subproject Components. The subproject includes:
(a)    a poUcy and institutional development program to: (i) prepare and annually update the
State's pluriannual and annual road expenditure and funding programs, consistent with
policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) develop and implement a
pavement management system designed to help prepare and monitor appropriate
rehabilitation and maintqwnance strategies and programs; (iii) strengthen DER-AL's
contract and project management systems; and (iv) develop appropriate capability in the
Government and/or DER-AL to implement and monitor environmental standards and
guidelines for state roads; and
(b)   an Investment and maintenance program consisting of the: (i) pavement rehabilitation
and resurfacing, and (ii) routine maintenance components of the State's 1992-96 road
program.
(a) Polk! and Institutional Development Program
3.    State Road Prgrams. DER-AL will update annually the State's pluriannual and annual road
programs. The project will provide technical assistance and training for this purpose. The Bank will
review these programs annually to ensure that the priorities remain adequate. During negotiations, it was
agreed with the State Government that: (a) the DER will prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure
and funding programs in accordance with policies and economic criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and with the rehabilitation and resurfacing procurement and execution
targets set forth in the Implementation Program, and present such programs to the Bank for comments;
and (b) the Borrower will prepare its anmnal budget proposals consistently with such programs, taking
into account the Bank's comments, and, as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds to the rehabilitation and
resurfacing programs to meet the agreed rehabilitation and resurfacing targets, and not less than US$3.0
million each year for the routine maintenance of the paved road network.



- 40 -                                Annex 3
4.    Pavenent and Maintenance Management Systems. DER-AL has, in the course of project
preparation, defined sets of actions to: (i) develop and gradually establish a pavement management system
(PMS) to improve the planning and monitoring of network maintenance strategies and programs, by
strengthening the various activities involved, including pavement condition and traffic surveys, pavement
diagnostics and preliminary designs, cost-benefit analyses and programming, and by improving the
integration of these various components of the system; (ii) develop and implement a strategy and plan to
undertake and gradually increase routine maintenance activities by contractors; and (iii) strengthen its
contract management and project and program monitoring systems. The project will provide for technical
assistance and training of staff to help DER-AL implement these programs. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the State Government that DER-AL will: (a) develop and establish a
pavement management system to design, monitor and evaluate appropriate highway rehabilitation and
maintenance strategies and programs; (b) develop and implement a strategy and a plan to gradually
contract out routine maintenance activities; and (c) strengthen its contract management and project and
program monitoring systems; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the
Implementation Program in Annex 5.
5.    Environmental Control Program. The subproject will provide technical assistance and training
of staff to help organize and operationalize the environmental units recently established in the Transport
Secretariat and DER-AL, including establishing appropriate procedures, formulating or adapting technical
norms and specifications, and carrying out environmental impact assessments of the proposed road
programs. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that the Borrower wIl:
(a) prepare appropriate state environmental guidelines for highways and the transport sector; (b)
strengthen the environmental units in DER-AL and the Transport Secretariat with adequately-trained staff
to carry out the environmental assessments of the roads programs and to enforce the guidelines; and
(c) from June 30, 1993, carry out appropriate environmental impact assessments for all the roads
programs projects in the State; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the
Implementation Program in Annex 5.
6.    TraIning Program. The subproject includes a training program which was designed to support
the project's objectives. It includes two components: (a) on-the-job training, which is directly associated
with the preparation and implementation of the above action programs, and will be included in the related
technical assistance contracts; and (b) the participation of DER-AL professional and management
personnel (for a total of about 500 trainee x weeks overall) in a series of courses and seminars on
highway planning and financing, pavement management systems, road maintenance by contract, contract
management and monitoring, and ervironmental analysis and control. These courses and seminars are
being developed and will be offered by DNER and ABDER under the ongoing Highway Management
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR). The on-the-job training component is defined under the
terms of reference for the respective technical assistance contracts. The Secretariat will prepare annual
Training Plans for the participation of its personnel in the above-mentioned courses and seminars, and
present them for Bank approval for financing under the Loan, in accordance with the steps and timetable
set forth in the Implementation Program, Annex 5.
(b) Investment and Maintenance Pronm
7.    Pluriannual Rehabilitation and Resurfadng Program. The investment component of the
subproject will consist of the rehabilitation of about 380 kn and of the resurfacing of about 500 km of
highways. The following table shows the proposed rehabilitation and resurfacing investments by standard
technical solutions by year, which were identified on the basis of available informadon in the course of



- 41 -                               Annex 3
project preparation. The pluriannual and annual programs will be reviewed and and updated annually,
on the basis of the gradually improved information and analytical tools of the pavement management
system.
Table 3.1: Pluriannual Rehabilitation and Resurfaing Program (Ki)
Programs/ year       1992     1993       1994       1995       1996      Total
Rehabiltation                  77        140         117        44        378
standard 1                    40         50          14
standard 2                    21         45          35         1S
standard 3                     -         39          38
standard 4                    16          6          30         29
Resurfacing          44        50         80         70         248       492
standard5           44        50         50         40          54
standard 6                               30         30         194
Total                44      17         220        187        292        870
8.    First-Year Rehabliitation and Resurfacing Program. The rehabilitation or resurfacing program
to be initiated in 1993 includes about 205 km of roads which are in poor condition and with relatively
heavy traffic. The technical solutions have been identified on the basis of the results of the above-
mentioned survey of the pavements' condition, and of an economic analysis (Annex 4). Final engineering
designs have been completed for all the sections with the exception of two sections (AL105/AL1 10) for
which preliminary engineering has been completed. The definition of the first-year program is shown
hereafter. A time-schedule for the related engineering and civil works is shown in Chart 3.1 attached to
this Annex.
Table 3.2: First-Year Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Progm
Group/Hlghw    Section                       Km    Cost    % 93    %94
1. AL11O      Entr.BR316-Arapiraca           31      4.5      70      30
AL115       Arapiraca-Campo Grande          37     2.6      60      40
AL1O5       Entr.BR1O1-Pocao                27     1.5      60      40
AI21O       AL410-AL440-BR101               22     2.5      60      40
2. AL210      AL440-Vicosa-BR316             58      2.9      80      20
AL120       BR116-Major Izidoro             31     1.6      80      20
Total                                       205    15.6
E. Subproject Cost and Financing
9.    Subproject Costs. The total cost of the subproject is estimated at about US$88.5 million
equivalent, including US$73.2 million for the rehabilitation and resurfacing, US$13.5 million for the
routine maintenance and US$1.8 million equivalent for the technical assistance and training programs.
The foreign exchange cost component is estimated at about US$35.4 million, or 40%, and the tax



-42 -                                 Annea 3
component at about USS17.7.0 million, or 20%. Total subproject cost include physical contingencies for
US$6.1 million or about 7% or base cost, and price contingencies for US$5.7 million (or about 6% of
base cost plus physical contingencies) estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule and of the
following forecast of price escalation for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars:
2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in 1993-94 and 3.8% thereafter. Cost estimates for civil works are based upon
average per-kilometer costs supported by engineering estimates and recent contract prices. Cost estimates
for consultant services are based upon prevailing local and foreign man-month rates. The estimated costs
of the individual subproject components are detailed in Table No. 3.4 attached and summarized in the
following Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: Estimated SubDrolect Costs and Financdng
(US$ million equivalent)
Subproject Costs                   Local       Foreign        Total
Rehabilitation                       22.1          14.7          36.8
Resurfacing                          12.3           8.2          20.5
Engineering, Supervision              2.0           1.3           3.3
Routine Maintenance                   8.1           5.4          13.5
Tech. Assist. Training                1.1            .7           1.8
Subtotal Base Costs                  45.6          30.3          75.9
Physical Contingencies                3.7           2.4           6.1
Price Contingencies                   3.9           2.6           6.5
Total Costs                          53.2          35.3          88.5
Financing Plan: . Bank                2.7          35.3          38.0
. State                    50.5           -           50.5
10.   Subproject Finandng Plan. The subproject will be financed from the proposed Bank loan of
US$38.0 million (or 43% of the subproject cost) to the State and from the States' own resources for
US$50.5 million (or 57% of the subproject cost). The financing plan of the subproject is detailed in
Table 3.4 hereinafter, and is summarized in Table 3.3 above. During loan negotiations, agreement was
reached with the State Government on: (a) Borrower guarantee of the necessary subproject counterpart
funds; (b) retroactive financing in an amount of not more than 10% of the loan amount for civil works,
goods, consultant and training expenditures incurred not earlier than twelve months before the date of the
Loan Agreement.
November 1992



- 43.                                           A nex 3
Table 3.4
0RAZIL
STATE HIGNUAY NANAGEENT PROJECT
Algoas Subproject Cost and Financing Table
..    Q u a n t i t i * r .......    ........ BaS *       C o    t --------  -Sank-
Financ.
Project Coopnent Lilt Price Total 1992  1993  1994  1995  1996    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Total         X
...... ...................    ....  ....... ........ ..... ....... ..... ....... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... . ..... ......... ......... .. .. ....... ...
RehobtIItation
. standard no. 1 Km  143.0  104            40    50    14            0.0   5.7   7.2   2.0   0.0  14.9
. standerd no. 2  Km  114.5   116          21    45    35    15      0.0   2.4   5.2   4.0   1.7  13.3
. standrd no. 3  Km  112.0    77                 39    38            0.0   0.0   4.4   4.3   0.0   8.6
. standard no. 4  Km   60.0   81            16    6    30    29
sabtotal               97.3   378     0    77   140   117   44       0.0   8.1  16.7  10.3   1.7 36.8        50X
Resurfacing
. standWrd no. 5  Km   58.0  238   44    50    50    40    54        2.6   2.9   2.9   2.3   3.1  13.8
standard no. 6  Km   26.4  254             0    30    30   194      0.0   0.0   0.8   0.8   5.1   6.7
subtotal               41.7   492    44    50    80    70   248      2.6   2.9   3.7  3.1   8.3  20.5        502
- engineering     Km    3.02  382   119   109   116    38            0.3   0.6   0.4   0.3          1.6      50X
.parvision       X     3.0X                                         0.1   0.3   0.6   0.4   0.3   1.7       502
Total R & R bas cost          870    44   127  220   1s8   292       3.0  12.0  21.4  14.1  10.3  60.6
. physical canting.    10.0X                                         0.3   1.2   2.1   1.4   1.0   6.1       50X
price canting.                    2.82  3.92  3.9X 3.82  3.82    0.0   0.6   2.0   1.9   1.8   6.5         50X
Total Inct. contingencies                                            3.3  13.8  25.5  17.4  13.1  73.2
Routinr maintenance
se a  coat     Km   11.9  S00   100   100   100   100   100        1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2  6.0
. patching-drain  Km    2.8  2530   780  670   600   380   100       2.2   1.9   1.7   1.1   0.3  7.1
. vertical sina  Km    0.3  1500   300  300   300   300   300        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Subtottl                     4530  1180  1070  1000   780   500      3.5   3.2   3.0   2.3   1.6  13.5        02
of ihich, contracted:                             10X  30X   50X    0.0   0.0   0.3   0.7   0.8   1.8         0X
Technical AssIstance & TraIning
. pltming, PNS   MN   10.0   50            25    25                  0.0   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.5       802
. survay          ts    1.0  200           SO    50    50    50      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2       502
e qupt & soft   ls    1.0  300    50   100   100    50               0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3      100X
. mneagemnt sy  MN    5.0    90    10   40    30    10               0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.5       802
envIronrmnt    MN    5.0   20             10    10                 0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1       652
. ext. traInIng tr.wek  0.5   500          100   150   150   100     0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3       65X
subtotel                                                             0.1   0.7   0.7   0.2   0.1   1.8
Total Project Cost                                                    6.9  17.7  29.2  20.0  14.8  88.5
Financing Plan
Sank, total                                                           1.7  7.5  13.3   8.9   6.6  38.0        432
. category I (civil works)                                           1.4   6.4  12.3   8.4   6.4  34.9       39X
. cateory 2 (equipaint   d software)                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3        02
. category 3 (consultants an  training)                              0.2   0.9   0.9   0.5   0.2   2.8        3X
State Treasury                                                        5.1  10.2  15.9  11.1   8.2  50.5       57X
,.................................................................................................................... .. .................
Source: DER-AL en mission estimtes
Nover 23, 1992



-44 -                                     Avac 3
Chart 8.1 - Stkt. Highway Managenent Prqoct -Alagoms- Procurement and Executon Programm-1993-94
CONTROL   -   EXT1                   1  9  o  3                               1   9   0  4
TASKS          PLAN let Quart 2nd art 9rd Quart 4thQuat 1 t Quarto 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th hum
24-Nov-92  KM   JaF  MaA  MaJuJuAAuS  0NFMa                            Ma Jun Jul IAud *     N
I-SNWINEERING                                I      - r                                -  -  -  -  - L
Group I                                     _  _ _                                             - _ _ _
AL-110/116/120/210 0 9.5 _ _      _   =             =  _ = = I                                       - =
GSroup If___=_=_===          
AL-105J10 1        -- -                                                           --- 1           - I   
11-CML WORKS
Rehabilktaton         1  _  _  =  =                                  -     =  =
Lot I:AL-1 I O91.0                                               *    "  >Y""" Sa,w,"Y*wt0 *** W"      L         =_
Lot II:AL-11    t     0.                     s00 96.0r    Fr > =   ,*a">   ,"z "Sr"","m,=  t>> "4i.
Lot lIlAL-120/210    22.4                 3 9        9     3         MM* m93 mm MM* *393    -
LotlV:AL-110/440    27.3                            was MM =99 MM*   9a9 00 9 MM*
Lot V:ALo 05         26.4         _                  33 _*89 M 33 999 993 9* 
Resurfacing                                                                            -  - _  =  =-               
Lot VIAL-210/450     5.                m  .  .fa m   3 'am 939 mm. 'am         A-Send   lication
LotVII:AL-101/215    387 $                  *9s*3   93 99  "3 n33 3            B-Send Bid 0ocuWn4sft
Lot7VIIIAL-120       30.9                           _ B  8  8 C  *  -   . = =  R-Request For  d.WI
LotiXAL-110          14.3                                                      P-Send Avid Proposal
______=___=_=_=_  C-Sign Contmat
________________                                                               maaEx l    _  _  _  _  _eoution of Art k
November 1992



- 45-                                 Annex 4
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMMN POECT=
Alaioas Subproiect Economic Analysis
A.   Methodolog
1.   The economic analysis of the first year rehabilitation programs has been carried out using the
HDM m model and the most recent paved road standards HDM-M Shell (HDMPAVED). The program
is designed to perform an evaluation of a set of maintenance standards applied to a paved road. It
computes the road deterioration and the costs streams for each of the maintenance standards being
evaluated, as well as the economic indicators used to compare these standards, i.e., present net values
and economic rates of return.
2.   The analysis was conducted for six road segments in the State of Alagoas, totaling 143.4 km. An
analysis period of 20 years was selected, the construction year for rehabilitation works being 1993. Net
present values were calculated using a discount rate of 12% and all costs are expressed in US dollars.
B.   Road Charcterlstics
3.   The road characteristics for the six individual segments were obtained from road condition surveys
and traffic estimates made by the DER of Alagoas in 1991. The following information were generally
available for each segment:
*    geometrical features, including the length, width, curvature and rise plus fall parameters of
the road section;
*    surface condition, as rated using the JOG or Vizir method, from which roughness values
were derived;
*    pavement constitution, with corresponding present structural number and subgrade CBR
values;
*    environmental features including average altitude and rainfall values; and
*    daily traffic volumes and annual growth for each vehicle type.
C.   Vehicle Opeating Costs
4.   The program assesses vehicle operating costs from the data entered to characterize the typical
vehicle fleet in the State of Alagoas. Appropriate values were selected for each vehicle type.



-46 -                                 Annex 4
S.   Typical vehicle operating costs for mixed traffic assuming relatively lightly rolling terrain
condidon, can be approximated as follows, as a function of road roughness:
VOC in US$/veh x km = 0.176 e00"37s , r2-0.W9
D.   Maintenance and Rehabilitation Financial and Economic Costs
6.   Maintenance and rehabilitation (financial) costs were obtained from calculation performed by DER
Alagoas (Annex 3). Economic costs were taken as being equal to 0.85 times the financial costs.
7.   Maintenance and rehabilitation unit costs iu:roduced in the program are summarized in the
following table:
Table 4.1: Maintenance and Rehabilitation Unit Costs
Description of Works              Financial Costs  Economic Costs
Routine Maintenance US$/km            1,890           1,606
Patching US$/m2                       3.80             3.83
Reseal: 25 mm overlay US$/m2           1.05            0.89
Overlay: 50mm A.C. US$/m2              10.5            8.92
Reconstruction US$1me                 35.0            29.75
E.   iance Standards
S.   For comparison purposes, 5 maintenance standards have been selected, as described below:
tndard 1: is the base standard and corresponds to routine maintenance including essentially very
localized repairs of pavement and shoulder defects as well as vegetation control and
regular maintenance of road drainage, verges and side slopes. This standard allows
for reconstruction to eventually take place when the roughness level reaches a critical
value of 11 IRI.
Standard 2: corresponds to full patching of potholes over 100% of the areas concerned for each
particular segment. Reconstruction is triggered when roughness reaches 11 ML.
stdard 3: has been selected to represent the thinnest resurfacing solution consisting of a double
surface dressing. It is triggered as soon as the maximum damaged area reaches 30%,
and it is preceded by all necessary routine maintenance and patching works.
gsadard 4: corresponds to the rehabilitation or resurfacing project as envisaged under the
program, i.e. a 50 mm asphalt concrete overlay and a new base course were
necessary. A responsive mechanism for triggering overlay was set at the present
value of roughness. Again, all routine repairs and patching activities are assumed
to have been completed before overlay works are undertaken.



-47 -                                        Annex 4
gfduga5: allows for a very thick overlay of approximately 100 mm of asphalt concrete. Prior
to overlaying operations, normal maintenance and pothole patching activities are
supposed to have been implemented.
F. AysisW
9.    From the analyses performed, the consolidated economic rate of return for the first year program
is estimated at 54%, the range of values obtained for individual road segments extending from 23% to
89%, thus indicating that the proposed investments are timely and economically justified.
10.   The analyses further suggest that;
(a)   the rehabilitation techniques using asphaltic concrete overlay in the range of thickness
selected for the project, generally yield the highest net present values at a discount rate of 12%;
and
(b)   investment costs would have to be increased by over 50% for the internal rate of return to
fal below 12%.
11.   Table 4.2 hereafter summarizes the results of the economic evaluation, segment by segment,
highlighting, in particular, total agency costs, traffic volumes, net present values and internal rates of
return, for each individual road link.
Table 4.2: Results of Economic Analysis
No.        Section            Km    AM    Standrd  TWhckuk   Co.        Cod/KGm   NPV       ERR
(Sm)     ($1000    (Sm)
ALIIS      Arapi oa-Cno        36.8  1,371      5.1         5      2.63       72       n.e.   24.6
ALIIO      Bal BR 316-Agphia   31.0  2,52         1         S      4.80      159       U.S.   233
AL4SO      Maulaudo-Anad       12.0   932         5         S     0.88        73        0.7   89.0
AL210      VicowAnul            9.0  1,286        s         S      0.54       60        0.3   82.4
AL210      QuebNgulo-BR316    23.1  1,288         S         5      1.52       66        0.8   84.5
AL!20      Cacimb-Eatr Al 220  31.5  1,178        5         5      2.02       64        6.3   67.5
Total or Mean       143.4  1,474       S         S     12.39       88      nU..   54.0
November 1992



- 48 -                                Annex S
BRAZIL
SITATE GHG1WAY AMAOAGME  ROlC
Alagoas SubUrolect Implementation
A. Organizational Arrangements
1.    Subproject execution responsibilities will be vested in DER-AL's respective functional directorates
(Chart 3.1). DER-AL has established and will maintain an appropriately staffed Project Management Unit
to be headed by a qualified and experienced Project Manager who will report directly to DER-AL's
Director-General. DER-AL has also established a Pavement Management System (PMS) Committee with
representatives from the various organizational units involved, to coordinate the development and
implementation of the PMS. With these arrangements, DER-AL has the capability to carry out the
subproject efficiently. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that DER-AL will
maintain organizati"nal arrangements for subproject execution satisfactory to the Bank, including (a) a
Project Managemei . Unit, with terms of reference and staffing, and headed by a Project Manager, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) a Pavement Management System
Committee with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Implementation Program
2.    The State Government is committed to carry out, through DER-AL, the subproject in accordance
with the Implementation Program (lP) shown hereafter, which has been confirmed during negotiations.
(A) Policy and Institutional Development Program
1. Preparation and Review of State Road Programs and Budgets:
(a)    DER-AL will prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure and funding programs in
accordance with policies and economic criteria set forth in the Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, and with the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing targets set
forth in Table 5.1 hereafter, and, by July 31 each year, present such programs to the
Bank for comments.
(b)    The Borrower shall take into account the DER-AL programs and the Bank's comments
in preparing its annual budget proposals, and, as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds to
meet the agreed rehabilitation and resurfacing targets, and the agreed amount for the
routine maintenance of the paved roads.
2. Development and Implementation of Pavement Management System:
(a)    DER-AL will prepare a detailed action program, including the design of a proposed
pavement management system and a timetable to develop and implement it, for the
purpose of improving the planning and monitoring of network maintenance strategies and



49-                                 Annex 5
programs. The action program will provide for the development and operation of a
computerized road database, the strengthening of DER-AL's procedures and techniques
used for pavement condition and traffic surveys, pavement diagnostics and designs, cost-
benefit analyses and programming, and for the improved integration of these activities.
DER-AL will present it to the Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1993.
(b)    DER-AL will promptly thereafter implement the action program, taking into account the
comments of the Bank.
3. Design and Implementation of Plan for Contract Maintenance:
(a)    DER-AL will, not later than December 31, 1993, complete a pilot project of routine
maintenance by contract, and, based on the results of the pilot project, desigr, a plan,
including a timetable, to carry out its routine maintenance activities, and present it to the
Bank for review and comments by January 31, 1994.
(b)    DER-AL will, taking into accolint the comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter
mplement the plan, which will be completed by September 30, 1997.
4. Inprovement of Contract Management and Program Monitoring Systems:
(a)    D23R-AL will prepare a detailed action program to strengthen its administrative systems
for contract management and for program monitoring, including for the monitoring of the
rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance components of the project, and for
reporting progress to the Bank in accordance with the guidelines included in the
Operational Manual; and present it to tde Bank for review and comments by June 30,
1993.
p')    DER-AL will, taking into account the comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter
implement the action program, which will be completed by September 30, 1993.
5. Strengtening of Enviromnental Managenent:
(a)    The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have prepared state environmental guidelines for
the highways and 'or transport, taking into account of the environmental guidelines for
highways prepared by DNER, and those for the transport sector, developed by GEIPOT,
and the Federal and State enviromental protection standards.
(b)    The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have strengthened the environmental units in DER-
AL and the State's Transport Secretariat with adequately-trained professionals to
implement the state environmental guidelines.
(c)    DER-AL will, from June 30, 1993, carry out appropriate environmental impact
assessments of all its major road programs and projects.
6. Technical Assistance and Traning of Staff:
(a)    DER-AL, in order to carry out the above action programs with efficiency, will contract
one or several consulting firms in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of



- S0 -                                 Annex 5
Consultants (August 1981) and on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)    DER-AL will, by October 31 each year, present to the Bank, with a copy to DNER, a
training program for the following year, specifying their proposed participation in
DNER's, ABDER's or other institutions' training programs; and, taking into account the
comments of the Bank, thereafter implement it.
(B) Rehabilitation and Resurfadng Programs
7. Selection, Preparation and Economic Evaluation of Investment Items:
(a)    DER-AL will select the road segments to be included in its annual rehabilitation and
resurfacing programs on the basis of: (i) the agreed network maintenance strategy and
pluriannual program, as periodically updated and refined, consistently with the
development of the pavement management system; (ii) funding expectations for the given
year; and (iii) technical and economic criteria and methodologies which are specified in
the Operational Manual.
(b)    Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs, DER-AL will prepare for each selected
road segment a draft financing application form providing information on: (a) the analysis
carried out and the rationale for selection; 0) the road condition and traffic data; (c) the
diagnostics of the problems and the recommended engineering solution; (d) the estimated
cost of works; (e) the result of a preliminary economic evaluation; and (f) the proposed
implementation schedule, as specified in the Operational Manual; and present them to the
Bank, with copy to DNER. Ihe recommended engineering solution would be consistent
with the policy selected for the network-level analysis of the road rehabilitation and
resurfacing program as a whole, including the timing of the investment. The Bank will
approve the financing of the engineering under the loan on the basis of a review of the
draft financing application forms.
(c)    After completing the detailed engineering and prior to contracting the works, DER-AL
shall update and finalize the financing aplication forms as required to reflect the more
accurate traffic projections, the selected engineering solutions, and the final cost
estimates, and present the final application forms to the Bank with copy to DNER. The
Bank will approve the implementation and financing of the respective rehabilitation and/or
resurfacing investments under the loan on the basis of the final application form review.
(d)    All the investments included in the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing programs would
have estimated economic internal rates of return exceeding 12%.
8. Preparation and Monitoring of Procurement and Execution Programs:
(a)    DER-AL will prepare annual procurement and executon programs for the subproject
investments as specified in the Operational Manual, and consistent with its annual and
pluriannual expenditure and funding programs; and by October 31 of each year present
them to the Bank with copy to DNER for comments.
(b)    DER-AL will monitor the implementation of the annual procurement and execution
programs, and inform DNER and the Bank through quarterly progress reports, as



-51 -                                 Annex 5
specified in the Operational Manual, and against the following procurement and execution
targets (in kilometers):
Table 5.1: Project Procurement and Execution Targets
(Km of roads)
Program item      Activity       1992   1993    1994    1995    1996
Rehabilitation    Contracted             150      126     102
Executed                77     140      117      44
Resurfacing       Contracted      70      64      75      160      123
Executed        44      50      80       70     248
C.  nurnent Arangements
3.    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table hereafter:
Table 5.2: Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Ö- . ocurement Method-
Project Element           ICB       LCB      Other   NBF 1/   Total
Civil Works                 44.6     25.0       -       13.5    83.1
(22.3)   (12.5)     -               (34.8)
Equipment                    -        -         .3       -        .3
(.3)             (.3)
Consultants & Training       -        -        5.1               5.1
(2.9)            (2.9)
Total                       44.6     25.0      5.4      13.5    88.5
(of which Bank financed)   (22.3)   (12.5)    (3.2)      -     (38.0)
1I not Bank-financed routine maintenance works.
D. Disbursements
4.     The loan amount will be allocated and disbursed according to Table 4.3 hereafter.



- 52-                                 Annex S
Table 4.3: Allocation of Loan ErQCeds
Loan category                Amount Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works            28,400,000  50% of expenditures
2. Equipment                 300,000  100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
3. Consultants and Training   2,800,000  50% of local expenditures
100% of foreign expenditures
4. Unallocated             6,500,000
Total                  38,000,000
E. SuburWjet Monltoring
5.     The implementation of the subproject will be monitored against the set of actions and timetable,
including against the works execution targets, which are recorded in the Implementation Program above.
A mid-term, detailed review of the implementation of the subproject will be carried out by the end of
1994. The review will cover all the agreed actions, target dates, and execution targets included in the
Implementation Program and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement.
Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrower's commitment to provide adequate funds for
maintenance, including counterpart funds for the subproject; and (b) DER-AL's performance under the
agreed institutional development action plan. The Bank will have the right to exercise appropriate
remedies, including suspension of disbursements and termination, if the Borrower has defaulted under
the funding condition, and/or if DER-AL's performance under the action plan is not satisfactory.
November 1992



-53 -                                  Annex 6
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT POIC
Santa Cj.tarlna State Road Network, Agency and Program
A. The Road Network
1.    Network Classification. The state has about 60,000 km of roads, of which about 5,000 km are
paved. There are about 5,300 km of roads under the state's jurisdiction, of which only 2,630 km (i.e.,
50%) are paved. The state has assumed responsibility for the maintenance of 425 km of federal highways
through a recent agreement with the federal government. These and possibly other highways are expected
to be transferred to the state's jurisdiction when the National Congress approves the proposed new
National Highway System, as part of the decentralization program.
Table 6.1: Network Classification (Km}
PAVED       GRAVEL      EARTH      TOTAL
FEDERAL        2100          100                  2200
SrATE        2630         2639                  5269
MUNICIPAL         297                   53000      53297
TOTAL         5027        2739       53000     60766
2.    Traffic. The bulk of the traffic (85% of the vehicle-km) is on the paved portion of the state
network. The average daily traffic (ADT) on the paved network is high (about 2,000 vehicles per day,
vpd), and about 10% of the network has an ADT above 4,000 vpd. The following table shows the
distribution of the network by traffic categories.
Table 6.2: Distribution of Network according to TraMffic
ADT(vpd)      KM        % of TOTAL
TI           0/500      209               8
T2         50011000     718              28
T3        1000/2000     975              37
T4        2000/3000     337              13
T5        3000/4000      98               4
T6            4000      256              10
TOTAL                      2593             100



-54 -                                    Annex 6
3.     Network Characteristics. The state network is relatively young since only 5% of the paved
network is over 15 year old, and 32% is over 10 year old. About two-thirds of the network are made of
asphalt-concrete pavements and one-third of surface treatments.
Tabie 6.3: Age and Nature of Pavements
Age(yr)     ian        %             Nahue             km        X
0/5      555       21                  eanems
5/15     1218       47           aphalt conen      1685       65
10/15     705        27             cold pro-mix
15/20      74         3           surface troant.   906        35
Z20        40        2                   stone
4.     Network Maintenance Condition. A survey of the maintenance condition of the paved network,
which was carried out in 1991 for the preparation of the project, has shown that 45% of the network was
qualified in good condition, and essentially re*uired routine maintenance; 24% was qualified in regular
condition, and essentially required resurfacing; and 31% was qualified in poor condition, and required
substantial rehabilitation or reconstruction works. The following table shows the results of the survey,
in the form of the distribution of the network in traffic x condition categories, which are consistent with
the network characteristics and traffic.
Table 6.4: Distribution of Network In Traffc x Condition Categries
TRAFFIC      GOOD      REGULAR        BAD      TOTAL    %      S.T.     A.C.
TI        164            44         -       208    8      600       300
T2       561            104       54        719   28      400       500
T3        303           339       333       975   37      250       650
T4         86           102       149       338   13      150       650
T5                       17       81         98    4       50       150
T6        49             14       193       256   10       50       450
TOTAL        1163           620      810       2593           150      2700
45%           24%      31%       100%
Note: S.T.: Surfce Tnratamt, A.C.: AsphaR CoXrete
B. The State Road Aenc
5.     Organization. The State of Santa Catarina Highway Department (Departamento de Estradas de
Rodagem, DER-SC) was reorganized in 1946 by decree #217 into the agency responsible for the roads
under the jurisdiction of the State of Santa Catarina. Recently, DER-SC's functions were revised and its
organizational structure streamlined to only four hierarchical levels (Chart 4.1). The highway planning
function was transferred, together with the related staff, to the State Secretariat for Transport and Public
Works. DER-SC retained essentially the executive functions, including: (i) implement the state's road



- 55 -                                Annex 6
transport policy; (ii) administer the state's highway infrastructure; (iii) foster surveys on the highway
network; and, (iv) implement, trough specific contracts, road activities related to any other public agency.
DER-SC is headed by a President and four directors (for maintenance, projects & research, construction
works and operations); there are 22 field districts, which directly report to the directors. The present
organizational structure is shown in Chart 6.1 attached to this Annex.
6.    Planning and Finanding. The State's road programs are funded essentially from the State's
general revenue. Annual programs and budgets are now prepared by the Planning Department of the State
Secretariat for Transport and Public Works with support from the respective areas of DER-SC, based on:
(i) a financial limit and parameters (e.g., projected inflation) previously indicated by the State Secretary
of Planning; (ii) current expense projections; and, (iii) perceived needs for rehabilitation, maintenance
and construction or paving of roads, which are specified by section. In general, these programs or
projects have a sound technical basis. The budget proposal is then reviewed by the State Secretary of
Planning, and subsequently submitted to the State Congress. In comparison with other states, the finally
approved programs and budgets are relatively similar to the original proposals. Priorities at the political
level, however, have in the past been clearly assigned to paving and new construction projects, at the
expense of the maintenance program. The Secretariat's and DER-SC's planning capabilities will be
strengthened under the project so as to enable it to prepare and monitor pluriannual and annual programs
and budgets on the basis of appropriate technical and economic criteria (Annex 7, para. 3).
7.    Maintenance Planning and Monitoring. DER-SC and the Secretariat have in 1991 carried out
a comprehensive visual survey of the condition of the paved network. The results of this survey constitute
an appropriate information base for the preparation of the subproject. But a more systemic approach is
needed to adequately monitor, on a permanent basis, the condition of the network and to effectively
design and monitor maintenance strategies and programs. There is also a need to improve the capacity
of DER-SC to make diagnostics of the pavements, since standard remedies are generally applied without
a clear understanding of the problems. DER-SC carries out its routine maintenance activities by force
account, but some of its districts do not have adequate routine maintenance capacity. There is also
insufficient data to analyze the cost of such routine maintenance activities. DER-SC's maintenance
planning and monitoring capabilities will be strengthened under the project, and a pilot, routine
maintenance project will be implemented to assess the comparative efficiency of contract versus force
account maintenance, with a view to gradually expand the use of maintenance contracts (Annex 7,
para. 4).
8.    Management Systems. The existing, computerized information systems are essentially for
administrative purposes such as payroll and accounting. There is a need to strengthen the technical and
management systems, including the existing procedures and techniques used for the management of the
contracts and the for monitoring of the projects and programs. The project will include a component with
technical assistance and training of personnel for the purpose of developing and implementing
computerized management information systems, including for contract management and project and
program monitoring (Annex 7, para. 4).
9.    Environmental Control. DER-SC, as the other DERs, did not develop a capability to effectively
carry out environmental impact analyses or to design and implement appropriate mitigatory measures.
In order to comply with environmental regulations, DER-SC or the Secretariat have been contracting out
some form of environmental impact analyses to consulting firms. But these analyses are generally direcdy
aimed at obtaining the necessary approvals from the state environmental agency. However, the State
Secretary for Transport and Public Works has recently, in the course of the project preparation,
established an Environmental Unit for the sector. The proposed project will include a component, with



- 56 -                                 Annex 6
technical assistance and training of personnel, to help organize and strengthen the unit and start-up Its
activities (Annex 7, para. 5).
10.   Personnel and Training. DER-SC has 3,300 employees, of which 200 are engineers and
economists. About 5% only of the staff is at headquarters, with mainly administrative functions. Salaries
are somewhat below market prices. The age structure of the staff is normal and motivation is high.
Training programs have been scarce at all levels. The project will Include a training component to support
the project's objectives, with priority to advanced (technical and in-service) training for middle and senior
level managers and professionals, in the areas of pavement management, highway planning and
monitoring, environmental impact analysis and remedies, and contract management (Annex 7, para. 6).
C. The State Highway Stratea and Program
11.   Strategy. The Government's strategy is to allocate comparable resources to the maintenance and
to the paving programs. The maintenance strategy emphasizes the timely resurfacing or strengthening of
existing pavements, and the rehabilitation of all pavements in poor condition over the next five years, and
appropriate routine maintenance on the entire paved network. The proposed pavement management system
which will be established under the project will enable a better definition of the network maintenance
strategy and improved expenditure decisions. In the meantime, the Secretariat and DER-SC will apply
the above strategic principles together with cost-benefit analyses at the individual project level to select
the technical solution with the highest return and to make sure that no investment with a rate of return
below 12% will be undertaken.
12.   Pluriannual Road Program. A pluriannual road program was developed in the course of the
project's preparation on the basis of the above strategic principles and estimated annual budgets of about
US$60 million equivalent. A summary of the program is shown in Table 6.5 below.
Table 6.5: Pluriannual Road Program Summary (US$million)
Psogiunu               1992     1993    1994     1995     1996    Total 
Reiab./Rteuawing       15.5    22.0    21.8    20.8       11.6     91.7     30
Routinm Maintenance    8.4      8.4      8.5      8.6      8.7     42.6     14
MaiaL Unpaved Net      4.2      4.1      4.0      3.8     3.7      19.7      6
Paving, Now Constr.    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0       30.0    150.0     50
Tota                  58.1     64.5     64.3     63.0     54.0    304.0    100
13.   Pavement Diagnostic and Standard Technical Solutions. Two major types of deterioration have
been identified on the state network. Some sections have very substantial geometric deformations, while
others show only cracks, which can reach extreme levels but with no significant deformations of the
surface. In the first case, pavement thickness is probably insufficient and the pavement deteriorates
through the action of traffic and water. In the second case, the problem is likely related only to the
thickness and/or quality of the asphalt overlays or surface treatment. Five standard technical solutions
have been developed on the basis of the existing information, to prepare the proposed program; these
solutions will be reviewed and possibly adjusted as part of the proposed pavement management system:



-57-                                 Annex 6
standard 1:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay,
10 cm hot pre-mix, and
15 cm crushed run materials.
standard 2:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay, and
10 cm hot pre-mix.
standard 3:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay,
5 cm hot pre-mix
standard 4:  5 cm hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay.
standard 5:  2.5 cm (average) hot-mixed asphalt concrete overlay.
14.   The following table shows the possible rehabilitation and resurfacing standard solutions for the
different traffic categories.
Table 6.6: Standard Rehabilitation and Resurfadn Solutions
Standards         T1 &T2       T3 & T4      T5 &T6
resurfacing          5          4&5          4&5
rehabilitation       4          2 & 3         1 & 2
November 1992



-58 -                                                     Annex 6
Chart 6.1  Organzion of DER-Santa Catrina
General
Dlrector
Cabinet          |
Bidding Grou7p
H Sp c{^lPro-J"t-8 1
Dcprt ments
tions                                Construction                 aintenae                      "eI
Drector                             Dfrector                   Drector                       Plrects
Director
Divf slons
l~~~~~~~~~I~iotoi    Mint                                                 E iit
Adiisrtonto                                                          IStudies RI
N    22 Dmstrr9ts
November IM9



-59-                                 Annex 7
BRAZIL
STATE HtGHWAY MANAGEMENT PRO.ECT
Santa Catarina SubroJlect Description, Cgst and Financing
A. &&ptroec Descrtion
1.    Subproject Objectives. The proposed subproject will help to reduce the further deterioration of
the State's road network and improve its maintenance condition by: (a) ensuring adequate priority and
funding for the rehabilitation and maintenance versus the new-construction components of the State's road
program; (b) designing and implementing appropriate highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies
and programs, and improving DER-SC effectiveness in maintaining its network through increased reliance
upon contracted rather than force account works and improved management of maintenance activities.
It will also help: (c) develop and improve compliance with environmental standards for state roads. The
final objective is to contribute to the resumption of economic growth in the State by reducing the cost of
road transport on the highway network, which account for over half of the State's non-urban road traffic.
2.    Subproject Components. The subproject includes:
(a)    a policy and Institutional development program to: (i) prepare and annually update the
State's pluriannual and annual road expenditure and funding programs, consistently with
policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) develop and implement a
pavement management system designed to help prepare and monitor appropriate
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and programs; (iii) strengthen DER-SC's
contract and project management systems; and (iv) develop appropriate capability in the
Government and/or DAER to implement and monitor environmental standards and
guidelines for state roads; and
(b)   an investment and maintenance program consisting of the: (i) pavement rehabilitation
and resurfacing, and (ii) routine maintenance components of the State's 1992-96 road
program.
(a) Policy and Institutional Development Component
3.    State Road Programs. The State Secretariat for Transport and Public Works and DER-SC will
update annually the State's pluriannual and annual road programs. The project will provide technical
assistance and training for this purpose. The Bank will review these programs annually to ensure that the
priorities remain adequate. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that: (a) the
DER will prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure and funding programs in accordance with
policies and economic criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and with the
rehabilitation and resurfacing procurement and execution targets set forth in the Implementation Program
Annex 9), and present such programs to the Bank for comments; and (b) the Borrower shall prepare its
annual budget proposals consistently with such programs, taking into account the Bank's comments, and,
as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds to the rehabilitation and resurfacing programs to meet the agreed



-60-                                Annex 7
rehabilitation and resurfacing targets, and not less than US$3.0 million each year for the routine
maintenance of the paved road network.
4.    Pavement and Maintenance Management Systems. DER-SC has, in the course of project
preparation, defined sets of actions to: (1) develop and gradually establish a pavement management
systems (PMS) to improve the planning and monitoring of network maintenance strategies and programs,
by strengthening the various activities involved including pavement condition and traffic surveys,
pavement diagnostics and preliminary designs, cost-benefit analyses and programming, and by improving
the integration of these various components of the system; (ii) develop and implement a strategy and a
plan to undertake and/or gradually increase routine maintenance activities by contractors and reduce force
account capacities; and (iii) strengthen its contract management and project and program monitoring
systems. The project will provide for technical assistance and training of staff to help DER-SC implement
these programs. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that DER-SC wIl:
(a) develop and establish a pavement management system to design, monitor and evaluate appropriate
highway rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and programs; (b) develop and implement a strategy
and a plan to gradually contract out routine maintenance activities; and (c) strengthen its contract
management and project and program monitoring systems; all in accordance with the actions and
timetable set forth in the Implementation Program.
S.    Environmental Control Program. The subproject will provide technical assistance and training
of staff to help put into operation the environmental units which were recently established in the State
Secretariat for Transport and Public Works and the DER, including to establish appropriate procedures,
formulate or adapt technical norms and specifications, and to carry out the environmental impact
assessments of the proposed road programs. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government
that the Borrower will: (a) prepare state environmental guidelines for highways and for the transport
sector; (b) strengthen the Secretariat's and the DER's environmental units adequately-trained professionals
for the implementation of the guidelines; and (c) carry out appropriate environmental assessments of the
roads programs and projects, all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the
Implementation Program (Annex 9).
6.    Training Program. The subproject includes a training program which was designed to support
the subproject's objectives. It includes two components: (a) on-the-job training, which is direcdy
associated with the preparation and implementation of the above action programs, and will be included
in the related technical assistance contracts; and (b) the participation of Secretariat and DER-SC
professional and management personnel (for a total of about 2000 trainee x weeks overall) in a series of
courses and seminars on highway planning and financing, pavement management systems, road
maintenance by contract, contract management and monitoring, and environmental analysis and control.
These courses and seminars are being developed and will be offered by DNER and ABDER under the
ongoing Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR). The on-the-job training
component is defined under the terms of reference for the respective technical assistance contracts. The
Secretariat will annually prepare Training Plans for the participation of its personnel in the above-
mentioned courses and seminars, and present them to the Bank for approval for financing under the Loan,
in accordance with the steps and timetable set forth in the Implementation Program (Annex 9).
(b) Invytment and Maintenance Component
7.    Pluriannual Rehabiltation and Resurfadng Program. The investment component of the
subproject will consist of the rehabilitation of about 550 km and of the resurfacing of about 900 km of
highways. The following table shows the proposed rehabilitation and resurfacing investments by standard



-61 -                                Annex 7
technical solutions and by year, which were identified on the basis of the available information in the
course of project preparation. The pluriannual and annual programs will be reviewed and updated
annually, on the basis of the gradually improved information and analytical tools of the pavement
management system.
Table 7.1: Pluriannual Rehabilitation and Resurfadng Program (Km)
Programs/year        1992      1993        1994       1995       1996       Total
Rehabilitation        28       153        177         100        90        S8
standard 1           12        49          14
standard 2           16        74         63          30         10
standard 3                     30         100         70         80
Resurfadng            75       209        261        270         85         900
standard 4                     29         81          85         85
standard 5           75        180        180        185
Total                103       362        438        370         175       1448
B.     irst-Year Rehabiltation and Resurfadng Program. The rehabilitation program, for which
works were contracted and initiated in 1992, includes about 140 km of roads, which are in poor condition
and with a heavy traffic. The resurfacing program, for which detailed engineering has been completed,
includes to groups of roads totaling respectively 47km and 146 km. The technical solutions have been
identified on the basis of the results of the above-mentioned survey of the pavements' condition and of
an economic analysis (Annex 8). Final engineering designs have been completed for all the sections. The
basic data of the first-year program are shown hereafter. A time-schedule for the related engineering and
civil works is shown in Chart 7.1 attached to this Annex.
Table 7.2: FIrst-Y_ar Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Program
Group/llgway   Section                          Km      ADT      age   % 92   % 93
1. SC486         Brusque-BRI01                    30     5100       8     30      70
SC413          Blumenau-Guaramirim              50     4800      13     25      75
SC444          Criciuma-BRIOI                   11     7500      17     75      25
SC470          Blumenau-BR1I1                   40     8900      23     25      75
SC480          Chapeco-BR282                    10     6900       9     75      25
2. Group 2       SC452, SC282, SC425              47                        -    100
3. Group 3       SC283, SC302, SC401, SC452      146                        -     80
Total                                          334



- 62 -                               Annex 7
B. Subgrlect Cost and Flnandna
9.    SubproJect Costs. The total cost of the subproject is estimated at about US$135.3 million
equivalent, including US$94.5 million for the rehabilitation and resurfacing, US$37.7 million for the
routine maintenance and US$3.6 million equivalent for the technical assistance and training programs.
The foreign exchange cost component is estimated at about US$54.0 million, or 40%, and the tax
component at about US$27.0 million, or 20%. Total subproject cost inclu'a physical contingencies for
US$7.9 million or about 7% of base cost, and price contingencies for US$7.7 million (or about 6% of
base cost plus physical contingencies) estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule and of the
following forecast of price escalation for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars:
2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in 1993-94 and 3.8% thereafter. Cost estimates for civil works are based upon
average per-kilometer costs supported by engiieering estimates and recent contract prices. Cost est:mates
for consultant services are based upon prevail ng local and foreign man-month rates. The estimated costs
of the individual subproject components are detailed in Table No. 7.4 attached to this Annex, and are
summarized in Table 7.3 below.
Table 7.3: Estimated Subgroject Costs and Financing
(US$ million equivalent)
Subproject Costs                  Local        Foreign        Total
Rehabilitation                       30.7          20.4          51.1
Resurfacing                          14.1           9.4          23.5
Engineering, Supervision              2.6           1.7           4.3
Routine Maintenance                  22.6          15.1          37.7
Tech. Assist. Training                2.2           1.4           3.6
Subtotal Base Costs                  72.1          48.2         120.3
Physical Contingencies                4.7           3.2           7.9
Price Contingencies                   4.6           3.0           7.6
Total Costs                          81.4          54.4         135.8
Flnandng Plan: . Bank                  -           50.0          50.0
.State               81.4          4.4          85.8
10.   Subproject Finandng Plan. The subproject wIll be financed from the proposed Bank loan of
US$50.0 niillion (or 37% of the subproject cost) to the State and from the States' own resources for
US$85.8 million (or 63% of the subproject cost). The financing plan of the subproject is detailed in Table
No.7.4 hereafter and is summarized in the above Table 7.3. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the State Government on: (a) the Borrower's guarantee of the necessary subproject counterpart
funds; and (b) retroactive financing in an amount of not more than 10% of the loan amount for civil
works, goods, consultant and training expenditures incurred not earlier than twelve months before the date
of the Loan Agreement.
November 1992



63 -                                                   Annex 7
Tablo 7.4
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHUAYS NANAGCEHIT PROJECT
Sant& Catarina Subproject Cost and Financing Table
-ß---* O u a n t I t I * s ---..-    -...... B a se    C o s t --------  -80kv
(in US dollar million equivalent)  Flnanc.
Project Coq3onent Unit Price Total 1992  1993  1994  1995  196    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Total         X
Rehabititation
. standard 1      Km  155.6   75    12   49    14                    1.9   7.6   2.2   0.0   0.0  11.7
. standard 2      Km   99.8  193    16   74    63    30    10        1.6   7.4   6.3   3.0   1.0  19.3
. standard 3      Km   72.2  280           30   1O0   70    80       0.0   2.2   7.2   5.1   5.8  20.2
subtotal               93.3  548    28   153   177   100    90       3.5  17.2  15.7   8.0  6.8  51.1        50X
Resurfacing
.5 cm overtly    Km   44.9   280           29    81    85    85      0.0   1.3   3.6   3.8   3.8  12.6
. 2.5 cm overlay  Km   17.6   620    75   1J0   180   185            1.3   3.2  3.2   3.3   0.0  10.9
subtotat               26.1   900    75   209   261   270    85      1.3   4.5   6.8   7.1   3.8  23.5       SOX
, engineering     Km    3.0% 449    60   287   102                   0.6   0.7   0.5   0.3          2.1      50X
, supervisfon     X     3.0X                                         0.1   0.6   0.7   0.5   0.3   Z.2       50X
Total R & R bse cost         1448   103   362   438   370   175      5.6  23.0  23.6  15.9  10.9  79.0
phyesieat contfng.    10.0K                                         0.6   2.3   2.4   1.6   1.1   7.9       50K
p price conting.                    2.8X 3.9K  3.9K  3.8K  3.8K    0.1   1.2   2.2   2.2   2.0   7.7         50K
Totat inct. contfngmncies                                            6.2  26.5  28.2  19.6  14.0  94.5
Routine maintenance
contracted      Km    1.8         138   295   627   982  1365      0.2   0.5   1.1   1.8   2.5   6.1
f orce accoint   Km    1.3         5403  5246 4914  4559  4176       7.0   6.8   6.4   5.9   5.4  31.6
Wutotat                                                              7.3   7.4   7.5   7.7   7.9  37.7        0X
Technical Assfstance & Training
planning, PNS   NN   10.0   50    10    30    10                     0.1   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.5       80K
. surveys         ts  10.0    50           20    10    10    10      0.0   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5       50X
equipment         Is  10.0   100           40    30    30            0.0   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.0      100X
management Sys  MN    5.0   70    15    40    15                     0.1   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.4       80K
. envfrormnt      mm    5.0    50          20    20    10            0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3       65K
e*xt. training tr.wek  0.5  2000          600   600   600   200      0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.1   1.0       65K
subtotal                                                             0.2   1.5   1.0   0.8   0.2   3.6
Total Project                                                        13.7  35.3  36.7 28.1  22.0 1Y5.8
Financing Plan
Bank, total                                                           3.2  14.4  14.9  10.4  7.1  50.0        37K
. category I (cfvil works)                                           2.7  12.6  13.5   9.4   6.8  45.1       33K
. category 2 (equipment)                                             0.0   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.0        1X
. category 3 (consultants  nd training)                              0.5   1.4   1.0   0.7   0.3   3.9        3X
State TIrasury                                                       10.4  20.9  21.8  17.7  14.9  85.8       63K
...............................................................................................................
Source: DER-SC and missfon estfimtes
November 23, 1992



- 64 -                                      Annex 7
Char 7.1- StHLghway Mangsment Project -St Catna- Prourement ad Exction Program- m1992-93
CONTROL           ET                  1 9 9  2               1              1     9   9  3
TASKS            PLAN   au    2nd Que  3rd Quari 4th Qua_t  l3rd Quarte  14th Quaiter
24-Nov-92 2 KM      F.4 Me ApiMaJulJulIAud S  O¢lNoD  F4MJarlFo Ml APdMiJun  IJul IAugI SllOOlNlDec
I-ENGINEERING
Group I- Rehabilitation
SC-466/413           Wm1404    m==r. r
8C-474/444        _             -_
80-470/486                 m
Grot 11 -R.urfadng7
SC-283/302           74.2_
SC-03W401                                     ugm A
80-452                        - _  __.
Group II1-Resurfacing
5C-452/262            47_6: *   _    _  mu   _ _
60-263/425            _                        m - _
GroupIV-R*hWlWion _  1  1                     -  - IÖ==- 
to be defined        200.0                                      A.     f  Qus msMs.m m on" Imsm mumJummm
LEGEN
A-Send Applcaton Form
_______________                                                                          s r  I T  I 1m1 rr  I      r  r  B-Send Bid Documents
R-Requ  tFor lds
_______________                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-Send Award Proposal
______________ C-<  -    ß    f       r  41     t;|  |J+           _           r       -Sign Contract
__________________                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mum.Exscutlon of Works
ICONTROL         IEKT                    I 9  9  2              1              1     9    9    3
| TASKS              PLAN  st Quart. 2nd Quartl 3rd Quat 4th Qu   lQur2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter 14th Quaeer
I~~~~~-92LKML    Fe  ~poMalJunJul IAu SolOc No 0DeJa FogMa p MalkJun  IJul JAug  _Jc0No D.c
I1-CIVILWORKS
Group l-Rehabiltdon
6C-466                  a    ,mm."u p__m s.u.II 
SC-413/8c-474         49.6ms  mum                                        mu mmrsmuu mm. ssm mum u.s. u.s
8C-444                11.01  1  1                         -  - 1- -_ 1
8C-470                40.0                                                             mmu mu ru u.s. mm No"
8C-480                10.0      . 1.                      m mm  mm. -4
Gr   "'" ul-Rufacilna                       1
18-452                                                       m. -∞∞- 1su 1                gus mug mss mum
80-282/8C-283         21.3   1              1                  1                    s.
6C-425                16.3                                       I        mmI s   mm mus mms.           mins.
Group lll-Rsmhcno
80-283                24.5                             Ö                    
8C-302                19.9__-------                                                                       -
SC-3U               I1.S6                                                               I mm" I  I MM.
18C-40 1              74.2 L_END
8C-452                 9.2                                                            A- Send Appflcon Form
I_I_I_I_I_I_____I_I_I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I                     IB- Send Bid Documenbt
_   rsm n    T     I                     11   T  I T           I 1  1  I T           Ic:nReuset for Bide
GRANDTOTAL            334.41  r                                                   - 1u  Execrr ron oWorksn
November 1992



- 65 -                                 Annex 8
STATE HIGIIWAY MANAGEMENT PRO11QC
Santa Catarina Subproject Economic Analysis
A.   Methodology
1.   The economic analysis of the first year rehabilitation programs has been carried out using the
HDM m model and the most recent paved road standards HDM-lI Shell (HDMPAVED). The program
is designed to perform an evaluation of a set of maintenance standards applied to a paved road. It
computes the road deterioration and the costs streams for each of the maintenance standards being
evaluated, as well as the economic indicators used to compare these standards, i.e., present net values
and economic rates of return.
2.   The analysis was conducted for five road segments in the State of Santa Catarina totaling 140.2
km. An analysis period of 20 years was selected, the constrction year for rehabilitation works being
1993. Net present values were calculated using a discount rate of 12% and all costs are expressed in US
dollars.
B.   Road Charateristics
3.   Ihe road characteristics for the five individual segments were obtained from road condition surveys
and traffic counts undertaken by the DER of Santa Catarina in 1991. The following information were
generally available for each segment:
*    geometrical features, including the length, width, curvature and rise plus fall parameters of
the road section;
*    measured roughness values;
*    pavement constitution, with corresponding present structural number and subgrade CBR
values;
*    environmental features including average altitude and rainfall values; and
*    daily traffic volumes and annual growth for each vehicle type.
C.   Vehicle Operating Costs
4.   The program assesses vehicle operating costs from the data entered to characterize the typical
vehicle fleet in the Staat of Santa Catarina. Appropriate values were selected for each vehicle type.



-066-                                Annex 8
S.   Typical vehicle operating costs for mixed traffic assuming relatively lightly rolling terrain
condition, can be approximated as follows, as a function of road roughness:
VOC in USS/veh x ikm = 0.176 e∞" W, m r2-a9
D.   Maintenance and Rehabilitation Finandal and Economic Costs
6.   Maintenance and rehabilitation (flnancial) costs were obtained from calculation performed by DER
Santa Catarina (Annex 6). Economic costs were taken as being equal to 0.85 times the financial costs.
7.   Maintenance and rehabilitation unit costs introduced in the program are summarized in the
following table:
Table 8.1: Maintenanee and Rehabilitation Unit Costs
Description of Works              Financial Costs  Economic Costs
Routine Maintenance USSIkm           2,156            1,833
Patching USS/m2                       3.80            3.23
Reseal: 25 mm overlay USS/mn          2.94            2.50
Overlay: 50mm A.C. US$/nil            7.64            6.50
Reconstruction USSIm2                41.12            35.00
E.   Maintenance Standards
8.   For comparison purposes, 5 maintenance standards bave been selected, as described below:
Standard 1: is the base standard and corresponds to routine maintenance including essentially very
localized repairs of pavement and shoulder defects as well as vegetation control and
regular maintenance of road drainage, verges and side slopes. This standard allows
for reconstruction to eventually take place when the roughness level reaches a critical
value of 11 IRI.
Stndard 2: corresponds to the rehabilitation project as envisaged under the program, for each
particular segment. It consistendy call for a bituminous concrete overlay ranging in
thickness from 8.5 to 15cm depending upon traffic volume and present pavement
condition. Overlay worls are assumed to take place after routine maintenance and
adequate patching of all pavement defects have been carried out.
adard 3: has been selected to represent a simple resurfacing consisting of 25 mm of asphalt
concrete. It is trigered at intervals of seven years and is also preceded by all
necessary routine maintenance and patching works.
saard 4: corresponds to a 50 mm asphalt concrete overlay. A responsive mechanism for
triggering overlay was set at 4.5 MI. Again, all routine repairs and patching
activities are assumed to have been completed before overlay works are undertaken.



- 67-                                       Arinex 8
standardI: allows for the thickest bituminous concrete overlay considered under the program,
i.e. 150 mm, or reconstruction whenever the rehabilitation project already allowed
for a 150 mm overlay. Prior to resealing operations, normal maintenance and
pothole patching activities are supposed to have been implemented.
F. Analysis Results
9.    From the analyses performed, the consolidated economic rate of return for the first year program
is estimated at 66%, the range of values obtained for individual road segments extending from 42% to
92%, thus indicating that the proposed investments are dmely and economically justified.
10.   The analyses further suggest that;
(a)   the rehabilitation techniques using asphaltic concrete overlay in the range of thickness
selected for the project, generally yield the highest net present values at a discount rate of 12%,
ranging from US$5 to 19 million; and
(b)   investment costs would have to be increased by over 100% for the internal rate of return
to fall below 12%.
11.   Table 8.2 hereafter summarizes the results of the economic evaluation, segment by segment,
highlighting, in particular, total agency costs, traffic volumes, net present values and internal rates of
retrn, for each individual road link.
Table 8.2: Results of Economic Analysis
No.        Section            K.M   AST   StaUdad  Thicknna    Coat    Cot/m          NW      ERR
(cM)    (Sm)    (SIO00)     (Sm)     (U)
SC485      Bnsqum-BR 101        29.8  5,121       3       10.0     3.56       117       13.0    50
SC413/474   Blumenu-GtuarAmim    49.6  4,815     2-3      12.5     7.81       144       14.5    42
SC444      Criciuma-BR 101      11.0  7,545      3-4       8.5     1.08        83        6.6    92
SC470      Blumenau-BR 101      40.0  8,865       2       15.0     7.57       174       18.9    72
SC480      Chapeco-BR 282        9.8  6,941      2-3      12.0     1.17       104        S.1    72
TotalorMean         140.2  6,657       -       11.6        -       124       58.1    66
November 1992



- 68 -                               Annex 9
SATEYGHA MANAGEMENT R.T
Santa Catarina Subproject Impleinmentation
A. Oanilational Arrangementis
1.    Subproject execution responsibilities will be vested in the respective functional directorates (Chart
6.1, Annex 6). DER-SC has established and will maintain an appropriately staffed Project Management
Unit, within its existing Special Project Division, which is headed by a qualified and experienced Project
Manager. DER-SC has also established a Pavement Management System (PMS) Committee with
representatives from the various organizational units involved, to coordinate the development and
implementation of the PMS. With these arrangements, DER-SC has the capabilities to carry out the
subproject with efficienr.y. During negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that DER-SC
will miaintain organizational arrangements for subproject execution satisfactory to the Bank; including:
(a) a Project Management Unit, with terms of reference and staffing, and headed by a Project Manager,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) a Pavement Management System
Committee with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
B. huPlentation Plrogmm
2.    The State Government is committed to carry out, through DER-SC, the subproject in accordance
with the Inplementation Program (IP) shown hereinafter, which has been confirmed during negotiations.
(A) Policy and Institutional Development Progm
1. Preparation and Review of State Road Programs and Budgets:
(a)    DER-SC will prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure and fiwding programs in
accordance with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and with the
annual rehabilitation and resurfacing targets set fortth in Table 9.5 hereinafter, and, by
July 31 each year, present such programs to the Bank for comments.
(b)    The Borrower will take into account the DER-SC programs and the Bank's comments in
preparing its annual budget proposals, and, as a minimum, allocate sufficient funds to
meet the agreed rehabilitation and resurfacing targets, and the agreed amount for the
routine maintenance of the paved roads.
2. Development and Implenentation of Pavement Management System:
(a)    DER-SC will prepare a detailed action program, including the design of a proposed
pavement management system and a timetable to develop and implement it, for the
purpose of improving the planning and monitoring of network maintenance strategies and



-69 -                                Annex 9
programs. The action program will provide for the development and operation of a
computerized road database, the strengthening of DER-SC's procedures and techniques
used for pavemAent condition and traffic surveys, pavement diagnostics and designs, cost-
benefit analyses and programming, and for the improved integration of these activities.
DER-SC will present it to the Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1993.
(b)   DER-SC will promptly thereafter implement the action program, taking into account the
comments of the Bank.
3. Design and Inplementation of Plan for Contract Maintenance:
(a)    DER-SC will design a plan, including a timetable, to undertake and/or gradually increase
routine maintenance activities by contractors, and to reduce force account capacities; and
present it to the Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1993.
(b)    DER-SC will, taking into account the comments of the Bank, promptly thereafter
implement the plan, which will be completed by September 30, 1997.
4. Improvement of Contract Management and Program Monitoring Systems:
(a)    DER-SC will prepare a detailed action program to strengthen its administrative systems
for contract management and for program monitoring, including for the monitoring of
the rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance components of the project, and
for reporting progress to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines included in the
Operational Manual; and present it to the Bank for review and comments by June 30,
1993.
(b)   DER-SC will, taking into account the comments of the Bank, prompdy thereafter
implement the action program, which will be completed by September 30, 1993.
S. Strgthening of Environmental Mnagement:
(a)    The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have prepared state environmental guidelines for
highways and for transport, taking into account the environmental guidelines for the
highway subsector prepared by DNER, and those for the transport sector, develo ~ed by
GEIPOT, and the Federal and State environmental protection standards.
(b)   The Borrower will, by June 30, 1993, have strengthened the environmental units in the
Secretariat and DER-SC with adequately trained professionals to implement the state
enviromnental guidelines.
(c)    DER-SC will, from June 30, 1993, carry out appropriate environmental impact
assessments of all its major road programs and projects.
6. Technial Assistance and Training of Staff:
(a)    DER-SC, in order to carry out the above action programs with efficiency, will contract
one or several consulting firms in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981) and on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.



-70-                                  Annex 9
(b)    DER-SC will, by October 31 each year, present to the Bank with copy to DNER for
comments a training program for the following year, specifying their proposed
participation in DNER's, ABDER's or other institutions' training programs; and, taking
into account the comments of the Bank, thereafter implement it.
(B) Rehabilitation and Resurfadng Programs
7. Selection, Preparation and Economic Evaluation of Investment Items:
(a)    DER-SC will select the road segments to be included in its annual rehabilitation and
resurfacing programs on the basis of: (i) the agreed network maintenance strategy and
pluriannual program, as periodically updated and refined -onsistently with the
development of the pavement management system; (ii) funding expectations for the given
year; and (iii) technical and economic criteria and methodologies which are specified in
the Operational Manual.
(b)    Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs, DER-SC will prepare for each selected
road segment a draft financing application form providing information on: (a) the analysis
carried out and the rationale for selection; (b) the road condition and traffic data; (c) the
diagnostic of the problems and the recommended engineering solution; (d) the estimated
cost of works; (e) the result of a preliminary economic evaluation; and (t) the proposed
implementation schedule, as specified in the Operational Manual; and present them to the
Bank, with copy to DNER. The recommended engineering solution would be consistent
with the policy selected for the network-level analysis of the road rehabilitation and
resurfacing program as a whole, including the timing of the investment. The Bank will
approve the financing of the engineering under the loan on the basis of a review of the
draft financing application forms.
(c)    After completing the detailed engineering and prior to contracting the works, DER-SC
will update and finalize the financing application forms as required to reflect the more
accurate traffic projections, the selected engineering solutions, and the final cost
estimates, and present the final application forms to the Bank with copy to DNER. The
Bank will approve the implementation and financing of the respective rehabilitation
and/or resurfacing investments under the loan on the basis of a review of the final
application forms.
(d)    All the investments included in the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing programs would
have estimated economic internal rates of return exceeding 12%.
8. Preparation and Monitoring of Procurement and Execution Programs:
(a)    DER-SC will prepare annual procurement and execution programs fot the subproject
investments, as specified in the Operational Manual, and consistent with its annual and
pluriannual expenditure and funding programs; and by October 31 each year present them
to the Bank with copy to DNER for comments.
(b)    DER-SC will monitor the implementation of the annual procurement and execution
programs, and inform DNER and the Bank through quarterly progress reports, as



-71-                                Annex 9
spe Afled in the Operational Manual, and against the following procurement and execution
urgsts (in kilometers):
Table 9.1: Pro,ect Procurement and Execution Targets
(Km of roads)
Program item    Activity      1992   1993    1994    1995    1996
Rehabilitation  Contracted     141    161     139       77      30
Executed       28    153      177     100      90
Resurfacing     Contracted     150    267     230      190      63
Executed       75    209     261      270      85
C. ProcurmnMt Arrangements.
3.    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table hereafter:
Table 9.2: Procurement Method
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Project Element            ICB        LCB        Other     NBF a/      Total
Civil Works                 50.0        40.0         -        37.7      127.7
(25.0)     (20.0)                           (45.0)
Equipment                     -          -          1.0        -          1.0
(1.0)                (1.0)
Consultants& Training         -          -          7.1                   7.1
(4.0)                (4.0)
Total                       50.0        40.0        8.1       37.7      135.8
(of which Bank financed)   (25.0)      (20.0)      (5.0)       -        (50.0)
a! not Bank-financed routine maintenance works
D. Disbusements
4.     The loan amount will be allocated and disbursed according to Table 9.3 hereinafter:



- 72 -                               Annex 9
Table 9.3: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan category                Amount Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works2           37,400,000  50% of expenditures
2. Equipment               1,000,000  100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
3. Consultants and Training    3,900,000  50% of local expenditures
100% of foreign expenditures
4. Unallocated             7.700.000
Total                   50,000,000
5.     Monitoring Targets and Mid-term Review. The implementation of the subproject will be
monitored against the set of actions and timetable, including against the works execution targets, which
are recorded in the Implementation Program above. A mid-term, detailed review of the implementation
of the subproject will be carried out by the end of 1994. The review will cover all the agreed actions,
targets dates, and execution targets included in the Implementation Program and the status of compliance
with all covenants of the Loan Agreement. Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrower's
commitment to provide adequate funds for maintenance, including counterpart funds for the subproject;
and (b) DER-SC's performance under the agreed institutiona.l development action plan. The Bank will
have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of disbursements and termination,
if the Borrower has defaulted under the funding condition and/or DER-SC's performance under the action
plan is not satisfactory.
November 1992



- 73 -                               Annex 10
BA=L
SrAT GHWAY MANAGE1E JE
Monitoring and Supervision Elan
1.    The DERs would, as part of their action programs to strengthen contract management and
program monitoring, establish an appropriate system to monitor the implementation of the subprojects,
including producing adequate information to report to DER management and to the Bank, in accordance
with the specifications included in the OM. Each DER shall prepare and forward to the Bank, with a copy
to DNER, quarterly progress reports satisfactory to the Bank, not later than one month after the end of
the quarter.
2.    DNER would perform a first level of project coordination and monitoring functions including
review of the foliowing documents: (a) application forms for investments to be included in the annual
rehabilitation and resurfacing programs; (b) annual procurement and execution programs; (c) all
procurement documentation for civil works and equipment; (d) terms of reference, invitation letters,
short-lists and draft contract for consultant services; and (e) the DERs quarterly progress reports. DNER
would forward their comments on these documents to the Bank. DNER project staff will also participate
in the Bank's supervision missions, and gradually contribute to the missions' work program.
3.    The Bank will retain full responsibility for approving all the above documents and related actions
by the DERs, taking into account DNER comments. The Bank will supervise and monitor the
implementation of the project, with assistance from DNER, in accordance with the Plan presented on the
next page. The estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities, which are shown in the table of
this annex, take into consideration the expected support from DNER, as well as the need for DNER staff
training to carry out their tasks.
4.    The implementation of subprojects will be monitored against the set of actions and timetable, and
against the procurement and execution targets, which are recorded in the Implementation Programs. Mid-
term, detailed reviews of the implementation of the subprojects will be carried out by the end of 1994.
The reviews will cover all the agreed actions, targets dates, and execution targets included in the
Implementation Programs and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement.
Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrowers' commitments to provide adequate funds for
maintenance, including counterpart funds for the subprojects; and (b) the DERs' performance under the
agreed institutional development action plan. The Bank will have the right to exercise appropriate
remedies, including suspension of disbursements and termination of the loan, if the Borrower has
defaulted under the funding condition and/or the DERs' performance under the action plans is not
satisfactory.



- 74 -                                    Annex 10
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEUMENRJC
Bank Sugervision InDut into Key Adtivities
Approx.                Key Activities                       Expected Skill          Stt.lnput
Dates                                                      Requirements            staff-wks
2/93      Project Launch Workshop                 Highway Engineer                   6.0
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Officer
8/93      Supervision Mission: review status of DER  Highway Engineer                9.0
and DNER organizational arrangements and  Transport Economist
monitoring systems, contracting of TA,  Oaerations Assistant
preparation of action programs, and of
1994 works programs and budgets.
3/94      Supervision Mission: review progress    Highway Engineer                   6.0
under TA, staff training, engineering,  Operations Assistant
procurement and civil works programs.
9/94      Supervision Mission: mid-term reviews of   Highway Engineer                9.0
two subprojects incl. compliance with loan  Transport Economist
covenants, progress on institutional and  Operations Assistant
investment programs, and preparation of
1995 programs and budget proposals.
3/95      Supervision Mission: review progress    Highway Engineer                   6.0
under TA, staff training, engineering,  Operations Assistant
procurement and civil works programs.
9/95      Supervision Mission: review progress on  Highway Engineer                  9.0
institutional and investment programs, and   Transport Economist
preparation of 1995 programs and        Operations Assistant
budgets.
1996      Two Supervision Missions                Highway Engineer                   12.0
Operations Assistant
1997      Two Supervision Missions                Highway Engineer                   12.0
Operations Assistant
1998      Loan Closing                            Highway Engineer                   10.0
(Project Completion Report)             Operations Assistant
November 1992



-75 -                                Annex 11
BRAZIL
h4a= HIGHWXY MANAGEMENT RJC
Selected Documents and Data Available In the ProJect File
Bank Mission DocuMents
1.   Alagoas Subproject Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, December 1991
2.   Mato Grosso do Sul Subproject Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, December 1991
3.   Rio Grande do Sul Subproject Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, December 1991
4.   Santa Catarina Subproject Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, December 1991
5.   Alagoas Subproject Post-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, March 1992
6.   Mato Grosso do Sul Subproject Post-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, March 1992
7.   Rio Grande do Sul Subproject Post-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, March 1992
8.   Santa Catarina Subproject Post-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, March 1992
9.   Final Executive Project Summary Package, April 1990
10.  Pavement Management Consultant Report, P. Autret, May 1990
11.  Pavement Management Consultant Report, P. Autret, December 1991
12.  Pavement Management Consultant Report, P. Autret, May 1992
13.  Environmental Control Strategy and Plan, V. Bellia, OIKOS, June 1990
14.  Environmental Control Plan Update, V. Bellia, OIKOS, December 1991
Borrowers' and Guarantor's Documents
15.  3o. Relatorio Nacional Conservacao e Restauracao de Rodovias, Julho 1988
16.  Diagnostico da Capacidade Gerencial e Operacional dos Orgaos Rodoviarios, 2 Volumes,
DNER, Setembro 1988
17.  Programa Nacional de Manutencao de Rodovias Estaduais, PNMRE, Marco 1989
18.  PNMRE, Programa de Trabalho Detalhado, Marco 1989
19. PNMRE, Acordo de Programa
20. Politica Nacional Rodoviaria, Agosto 1989
21.  PNMRE, Entrevistas com os Estados
22. PNMRE, Selecao de Projetos Pilotos
23. PNMRE, Manual Operacional, Identificacao
24.  PNMRE, Manual Operacional, Preparacao
25. PNMRE, Manual Operacional, Contratacao
26.  PNMRE, Manual Operacional, Implementacao
27   PNMRE, Manual Operacional, Out. 1990
28. PNMRE, Manual de Procedimentos Internos
29.  PNMRE, Programa de Treinamento, Atividades Meio (Groupo I)
30.  PNMRE, Programa de Treinamento, Atividades Meio (Groupo UI)
31.  PNMRE, Piano Organizacional da Gerencia Geral, Out. 1990



-76-                                 Anintex 11
32.  PNMRE, Sistemas Gerenclas
33. DNER Operational Manual for State Road Maintenance (Manual Operacional, Junho 1992)
34.  Draft of Agreement between DNER and DER defwiing the respective obligations of DNER and
the DER in implementing the project
35.  Agreement between DNER and DER Alagoas defining the State's responsibilities for the
maintenance of federal highways
36. Portaria no. 177/90 of the Director-General of DER-AL establishing the Project Management
Unit and designating its members
37.  Terms of Reference for the Project Management Unit
38.  Invitation Letter and Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance to the Project
Management Unit
39.  1992 approved budget of DER-AL
40.  1993 budget proposal for DER-AL
41.  Agreement between DNER and DER SC defining the State's responsibilities for the
maintenance of federal highways
42.  Resolution no. 59/92 of DER-SC Administrative Council establishing the Project Management
Unit
43. Portaria no. 079/92 of the Director-General of DER-SC establishing the Project Coordinator
44.  Curriculum Vitae of Project Coordinator
45.  Resolution no. 109/92 of DER-SC Administrative Council establishing the Pavement
Management Committee
46. Portaria no. 079/92 of the Director-General of DER-SC establishing the Pavement Management
Committee members
47. 1992 approved budget of DER-SC
48.  1993 budget proposal for DER-SC
November 1992



IBRD 23773R
t f tB ~L                      66-                                                                         4 1v   bie 
<XeR F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                                                                                   Jr
VENEZUELA nt                                                                                                                            Ocea  -
{  >9             t~---'   L, IAE                  R J r ".
AMAZONAS~~~~~%GUAN
{  \    ARGENTINA i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    Pt GRANGE7S3jkv                                 c           O NORThw
, -KS                       ,      ortove                   ,                                                                                                         Ocean
ONAS,-,                                                                            GR~~~~~~~~~ANAGE 0MEN PR JC
AMA~~~~~~~
L CHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~~~~~~~s 3  "R'A7>ZAI-L
I      S                                                                     em..ewenleiO.atreedee ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KadI.hwey sh Jand,Roa - a  h
Ny                                                                                                         Sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
V                                                                                                                                              Under Construction~~S  a  S
PARAC'UAY                               JANEIRO                         PI.Md~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OYaff 19



