Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3548 BR
Loan Agreement
(Alagoas State Highway Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ALAGOAS
Dated January 21, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3548 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ALAGOAS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
Page  2
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Brazil, Banco Central do Brasil, 
established by Lei No. 4.595, dated December 31, 1964;
(b)
"Contract Management and Monitoring Program" means the program referred 
to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement;
(c)
"DER" means Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem, the Borrower's 
Roads Department;
(d)
"DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, the 
Guarantor's Roads Department;
(e)
"DNER Agreement" means the agreement, dated November 27, 1992, entered 
into between DER and DNER, for purposes of the provision by DNER of technical 
assistance and training to DER with respect to the implementation of the Borrower's 
road rehabilitation and maintenance programs;
(f)
"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and has been approved by the Bank for 
financing under the Project, after reviewing the information to be provided by the 
Borrower on such Subproject pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(g)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante, 
the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine established 
by Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any 
other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute 
it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;
(h)
"GEIPOT" means Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes, the 
Guarantor's Transport Planning Agency;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual (Manual Operacional) 
issued by DNER in June 1992, as the same may be amended with the agreement of the 
Bank;
(j)
"Maintenance Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 3.11 of this 
Agreement;
(k)
"Pavement Management System Committee" means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(l)
"Pavement Management System Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 
3.09 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Pilot Project" means a project for routine maintenance of roads, to be 
carried out during a period of not less than one year by a contractor employed by the 
Borrower or by DER, to serve as basis for assessing the feasibility of contracted road 
maintenance;
(n)
"PMU" means the Borrower's Project management unit established in DER 
pursuant to Resoluc§o No. 37/92, of DER's Administration Council;
Page  3
(o)
"State Environmental Guidelines" means the Borrower's guidelines, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for transport environmental protection, covering all 
transport subsectors under the Borrower's responsibility;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Subproject" means a specific investment project consisting of pavement 
rehabilitation or resurfacing of paved roads under the responsibility of the Borrower, 
including those set forth in the Termo de Acordo; and
(r)
"Termo de Acordo" means the agreement entered into between DNER and DER 
on July 14, 1992, as amended from time to time, assigning to DER the jurisdiction and 
maintenance responsibility over certain federal roads in the territories of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty-eight million dollars 
($38,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Operational Manual, and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, administrative, road safety, maintenance, environmental 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall select the 
specific Subprojects to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan and carry out its 
road rehabilitation and maintenance activities in accordance with the criteria and 
requirements set forth in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the 
Bank shall be utilized in the procurement of goods, works and consultant's services 
(as applicable) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
Page  5
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, 
facilities, staff and resources required by the PMU to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through DER shall:
(a)
prepare annual and pluriannual expenditure and funding programs for road 
investments and routine maintenance in accordance with the policies and economic 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(b)
not later than July 31 each year, furnish such programs to the Bank for 
comments;
(c)
take into account the Bank's comments when preparing its annual budget; 
and
(d)
allocate in its yearly budget not less than the equivalent to three 
million dollars for paved road routine maintenance activities; and
(e)
maintain PMU, at least until the completion of the Project, with 
staffing, responsibilities and functions (including the qualifications and experience 
of its manager) satisfactory to the Bank;
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through DER, shall select the road segments to be 
included in its annual rehabilitation and resurfacing programs (including the 
Subprojects) on the basis of: (a) network maintenance strategy and pluriannual 
programs, (periodically updated and refined consistently with the development of the 
Pavement Management System), satisfactory to the Bank; (b) funding expectations for 
the given year; and (c) appropriate technical and economic criteria and methodologies 
as set forth in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.06. Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs of each 
Subproject, the Borrower, through DER, shall prepare and submit to the Bank, with copy 
to DNER, a draft financing application (of such form and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request) providing information on: (a) the analysis carried out and the 
rationale for selection; (b) the road condition and traffic data; (c) the diagnostic 
of the problems and the recommended engineering solution; (d) the estimated cost of 
works; (e) the result of a preliminary economic evaluation; (f) the proposed 
implementation schedule, all as specified in the Operational Manual; and (g) such 
other matters as the Bank shall reasonably request, provided, however, that all 
recommended engineering solutions shall be consistent with a policy, satisfactory to 
the Bank, selected by the Borrower for the network-level analysis of road 
rehabilitation and resurfacing programs as a whole, including the timing of the 
investment.
Section 3.07. When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower, through DER, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall: (i) update the information provided to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement on the basis of the Bank's comments thereon 
and the final engineering designs; and (ii) contain such other information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.08. In carrying out the training programs included under the Project, 
the Borrower, through DER, shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than October 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, exchange views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in 
the following calendar year;
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
Page  6
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom.
(e)
consult with DNER on the design and execution of such training programs 
and selection of beneficiaries thereunder; and
(f)
furnish to DNER copies of any reports sent to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (d) of this Section.
Section 3.09. (a) Not later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower, through DER, 
shall, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, prepare and present to the 
Bank, for comments, a detailed action plan (the Pavement Management System Plan) 
including a timetable, to develop and implement a pavement management system, aimed at 
improving the planning and monitoring of paved road network maintenance strategies and 
programs. Such action plan shall provide for the development and operation of a 
computerized road database, the strengthening of DER's procedures and techniques used 
for pavement condition and traffic surveys, pavement diagnostics and designs, 
cost-benefit analyses and programming, and for the improved integration of these 
activities.
(b)
Taking into account the Bank's comments on the Pavement Management System 
Plan, the Borrower shall promptly start the implementation of such plan, which shall 
be completed not later than September 30, 1995.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall maintain in DER a committee (the Pavement 
Management System Committee) with membership structure, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank,
to oversee and coordinate the development and application of the Pavement Management 
System.
Section 3.11. (a) Not later than December 31, 1994, the Borrower, through DER, 
shall complete the Pilot Project. Based on the lessons learned from, and on the 
results of, the Pilot Project, the Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1995, 
prepare and present to the Bank, for comments, a plan (the Maintenance Plan), 
including a timetable, to carry out Part B.2 of the Project.
(b)
Taking into account the Bank's comments on the Maintenance Plan, the 
Borrower shall promptly start the implementation of the Maintenance Plan, which shall 
be completed not later than September 30, 1998.
Section 3.12. (a) Not later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower, through DER, 
shall, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, prepare and present to the 
Bank, for comments, a detailed action program (the Contract Management and Monitoring 
Program) to strengthen its administrative systems for contract management and for 
program monitoring, including the monitoring of the rehabilitation, resurfacing and 
routine maintenance components of the Project, and for reporting progress to the Bank, 
in accordance with the guidelines included in the Operational Manual.
(b)
Taking into account the Bank's comments on the Contract Management and 
Monitoring Program, the Borrower shall promptly start the implementation of such 
program, which shall be completed not later than September 30, 1994.
Section 3.13. (a) Not later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare the State Environmental Guidelines taking into account: 
(A) DNER's 
environmental guidelines for the road subsector, 
published in 1992; (B) 
GEIPOT's environmental guidelines for 
the transport sector, published in 1992; 
and (C) the Guarantor's 
and the Borrower's environmental protection standards; 
and
 
(ii)
strengthen the environmental units in DER and in the Borrower's 
Secretariat of 
Transport with adequately-trained staff for the 
implementation of the State 
Environmental Guidelines.
 
(b)
The Borrower, through DER, shall, starting not later than June 30, 1994, 
carry out environmental impact assessments, satisfactory to the Bank, of all its major 
road programs and
Page  7
projects, including the Subprojects, such assessments to be based on the State 
Environmental Guidelines.
Section 3.14. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through DER, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
(with copies to DNER), not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of 
each year, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, including monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank on the execution of 
the Project, and the compliance by the Borrower of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 3.15. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and not later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall, through 
DER, exchange views with the Bank, with regard to the progress of the execution of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and on the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
(b)
At least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower, through DER, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing 
the Borrower's actions with respect to the execution of the Project and the status 
thereof and of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  8
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the parties to the DNER 
Agreement shall have not complied with their respective obligations therein set forth 
or the DNER Agreement shall have been amended, waived or terminated, provided, 
however, that any such event shall not be considered for purposes of this Section if 
the Borrower shall have made alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the provision of technical assistance and training to DER with respect to the 
Borrower's road rehabilitation and maintenance program.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that sufficient funds in amounts satisfactory to the Bank have been 
included in the Borrower's budget or budget proposal to cover all counterpart 
financing required for the first year of Project implementation after the date of this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and 
that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required to authorize the carrying 
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform all of 
their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in this Agreement and 
the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date April 25, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The General Director of DER is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
BR-316 km-14
Tabuleiro do Martins
57000 Maceio, Alagoas
Brazil
Telex:
82-2305
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e Coordenac§o
   da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco K - 5 andar
70063 Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Telex:
061-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF ALAGOAS
By /s/ Benedito de Lira
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  10
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               28,400,000        50%
    under Part B.1
    of the Project
(2) Equipment under              300,000        100% of foreign
    Part A of the                               expenditures
    Project                                     and 100% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(3) Consultants'               2,800,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training under                              and 50% of local
    Parts A and B                               expenditures
    of the Project
(4) Unallocated                6,500,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                38,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $3,800,000, may be made in respect of the Project on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1993; and (b) 
expenditures under a Subproject unless it is an Eligible Subproject.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce the deterioration of the road 
network under the responsibility of the Borrower, including those roads set forth in 
the Termo de Acordo, by improving the Borrower's policy-making, managerial, 
environmental protection and technical capacity with respect to road maintenance and 
rehabilitation; and (b) to contribute to the resumption of economic growth by reducing 
the cost of road transport.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Policy and Institutional Development
 
Page  11
A technical assistance and training program aimed at helping the Borrower to: 
(a) prepare pluriannual and annual road maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure and 
funding programs based on adequate policies and economic criteria; (b) develop and 
implement a pavement management system designed to help preparing and monitoring 
appropriate road rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and programs; (c) 
strengthen contract and project management systems; and (d) implement and monitor the 
State Environmental Guidelines.
Part B:
Roads Maintenance and Rehabilitation
 
1.
An investment program consisting of the execution of Eligible Subprojects.
 
2.
A program for the routine maintenance of the roads under the responsibility of 
the Borrower, including those set forth in the Termo de Acordo.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1998
through September 15, 2007
1,900,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the  applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
Page  12
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years but not
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be followed in the 
evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
Page  13
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and such imported taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under 
paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $25,000,000 and subject to paragraph 
3 below, goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Subject to paragraph 3 below, goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for goods procured under 
paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $300,000.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, and the first two contracts for civil works to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  15
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
Project Procurement and Execution Targets
(Km of roads)
Project item      Activity          1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Rehabilitation    Contracted          59    91   126   102     -
                  Executed             -    77   140   117    44
Resurfacing       Contracted          21   113    75   160   123
                  Executed             -    94    80    70   248
