                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 29806-BR

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-3916A CPL-39160)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$99 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                              FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                             FOR A

   BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION TRANSPORT




                                        December 21, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais (R$)
                                     R$ 2.88 = US$ 1
                                   US$ 0.35 = 1 R$

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMBEL          Metropolitan Assembly of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan
               Region
BHMR           Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
BHBUS          Plan to restructure the municipal bus system
BHTRANS        Belo Horizonte Municipal Transport And Transit Company
               (Empresa de Transporte e de Trânsito de Belo Horizonte)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBTU           Brazilian Urban Railway Company (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CMU            Country Management Unit
CTC            Centralized Traffic Control
DER-MG         Transport Directorate (Direção de Transportes) responsible
               for state roads and intermunicipal bus services
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMU            Electric Multiple Unit
GOB            Government of Brazil
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IMF            International Monetary Fund
NPV            Net Present Value
METROMINAS     Company expected to take over STU-BH (formerly called TMBH)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
PSR            Project Supervision Report
RTCC           Regional Transportation Coordination Commission
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN          State Secretariat for Foreign Affairs
STU-BH         Belo Horizonte Subdivision of CBTU
TMBH           Trem Metropolitano de Belo Horizonte S.A.
TOR            Terms of Reference
TRANSCON       Bus operator of the Municipality of Contagem




                            Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                          Country Director       Vinod Thomas
                            Sector Manager       Jose Luis Irigoyen
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jorge Rebelo

                                            BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
 6. Sustainability                                                                16
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
 9. Partner Comments                                                              23
 10. Additional Information                                                       29
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42

Project ID: P006564                                                  Project Name: BELO H M.TSP
Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo                                         TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BELO H M.TSP                                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-3916A; CPL-39160
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (47%); Railways (46%); Central government
                            administration (7%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Decentralization (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/26/1994                                     Effective: 04/19/1996                04/19/1996
     Appraisal: 04/24/1995                                         MTR: 04/19/1998                  07/18/2002
      Approval: 06/29/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL/CBTU
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid J. Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Jorge M. Rebelo                                Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Primary Author:             Jorge M. Rebelo; Elisabeth
                                Goller


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry


3.1 Original Objective:
The broad objectives of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln.3916-BR)
were: (a) the development of an integrated urban transport system for the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan
Region (BHMR) under a Regional Transportation Coordination Commission (RTCC) established to
coordinate and recommend common policies on pricing, regulation, financing, project evaluation and
selection; (b) the completion and decentralization of the Belo Horizonte Subdivision of the Brazilian Urban
Rail Company (STU-BH) from the Federal to the State and municipal levels; (c) the reduction of the
environmental (mainly air quality and noise) impacts on the BHMR due to motor vehicles and the
promotion of non-motorized transport modes; and (d) the development of special strategies and actions to
improve the accessibility of the low-income population to employment centers, health and education
facilities.


These objectives reflected essential priorities of the urban transport sector in Brazil and were consistent
with the Bank's 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which put emphasis on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support
systems to the poor. Of particular importance is that those objectives were realistic, even if slightly
complex and somewhat risky, given the institutional changes required.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained the same until loan closing and no revision took place. However, the new Federal
Government, that took office in January 2003, reviewed the original decentralization model because of the
delays in the completion of the works and in the full modal integration, which in turn slowed down the
expected rise in ridership and, consequently, increased the operating subsidy requirements. Since the State
and the Municipality of Belo Horizonte were not willing to pay such subsidies without the completion of
the works and most of the delays were due to the lack of adequate budgets to the project by the Federal
Government, the latter proposed a gradual decentralization model to mitigate those problems. The
inadequate budgetary resources were mainly the consequence of a lack of fiscal space, causing budget
restrictions in all investment projects in light of the macroeconomic crisis that affected the country and the
State after the Argentine crisis. For more information see Section 5.1. The Bank also encouraged a broader
private sector participation in the project through a study which evaluated the options of concessioning the
system. As both the new decentralization model and broader private sector participation in the system were
consistent with the relatively broad project objectives, and with the objectives of the CAS, no restructuring
was deemed necessary.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised three inter-related components: (a) an Infrastructure and Equipment component
to help build (i) the rail extension of STU-BH and the additional stations required to enhance modal
integration; (ii) the transfer terminals and physical accesses required for the actual integration between
buses, rail, pedestrians, automobiles and bicycles; and (iii) a centralized road traffic signal control system
to improve traffic management and control at about 250 road intersections in Belo Horizonte; (b) an
Environmental and Traffic Safety component to support (i) the design of an inspection and maintenance
(I/M) program for vehicle emissions and noise; and (ii) a traffic management and safety program; and (c)
an Institutional and Policy Development component to help in (i) strengthening the RTCC for the
BHMR; (ii) preparing an integrated Transport Policy, Land Use and Air Quality Management strategy for


                                                       - 2 -

the BHMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff,
regulatory and subsidy policies; (iii) implementing a cost-based financial management system in the
STU-BH; (iv) developing and enabling environment and financial instruments for more substantial
participation of the private sector in the investment and operation of the operating agencies; and (v)
strengthening air-quality planning and monitoring of vehicle based emissions.


Part A - The Infrastructure and Equipment Component

This component was designed to improve the infrastructure and equipment of STU-BH to a level which
would allow it to meet the operational and financial performance targets set for the project and specified in
Annex 1. The component can be summarized as follows:


The Civil Works Program consisted of: (a) intermodal integration works including: (i) the construction of
three integrated bus-to-rail terminals; (ii) improvements to road accesses to STU-BH stations; (iii) the
construction of sidewalks and pedestrian over/underpasses; and (iv) the provision of a centralized road
traffic signal control system and bus locator; (b) passenger station works for the construction of nine new
stations and enlargement/improvements of the São Paulo station; (c) bridges, road viaducts, and pedestrian
over/underpasses, which included the construction of four bridges, two road viaducts, and six
over/underpasses for pedestrians; and (d) the construction of a building for STU-BH's administration.

The Permanent Way Program included: (a) the provision of track materials for a 5 km line from Santa
Inês to São Gabriel (ex São Paulo); and (b) the construction of a 7 km line extension from São Gabriel (ex
São Paulo) to Vilarinho, including the construction of a 225 m tunnel.

The Systems Program consisted of: (a) electrification, including the installation of 7 km of overhead
catenary, 7 km of transmission cables, one substation and one sectionalizing cabin; (b) signaling,
comprising of (i) the replacement of the existing Central Traffic Control (CTC) from Eldorado to São
Paulo; (ii) the installation of vital interlocking relaying circuits in the 5 km section from Santa Inês to São
Paulo with materials and equipment in stock; and (iii) the supply and installation of a new signaling system
in the 7 km extension; and (c) telecommunications, including the provision of a central station, an
integrated telecommunication system on the São Gabriel (ex São Paulo) - Vilarinho extension and ticketing
control equipment in all 20 stations.

The Workshop Program included the provision of miscellaneous equipment for the new Matadouro
workshop, and of equipment for general maintenance of the permanent way and systems.

The Rolling Stock program consisted of: (a) the general overhaul of five electrical multiple units (EMUs)
and (b) the acquisition of ten EMUs.

Part B - The Environmental and Traffic Safety Program
The environmental and traffic safety program envisaged: (a) the design of an inspection and maintenance
(I/M) program for vehicle emissions and noise; and (b) the development of a traffic management and safety
program.

Part C - The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
STU-BH's decentralization was not by itself a guarantee that this CBTU subdivision in the future would be
better managed than its predecessor. A package of institutional and policy reforms were therefore
considered essential to induce modernization changes and motivate management and staff. The financial



                                                       - 3 -

management and administration, especially in regard to cost recovery mechanisms of the system had also to
be reformed. Otherwise, the cycle for another emergency program of rehabilitation would have repeated
itself with negative impacts on the ridership and on the BHMR as a whole. Furthermore, actions were
needed to change the environment in which STU-BH operated in order to facilitate modal integration and
sustainability desired in the long term. The basic sub-components of the institutional and policy package
proposed are summarized below:

         (a)      Decentralization. The first set of strategic Actions Plans concerned the actual
         decentralization process, including: (i) institutional and organizational arrangements; (ii) the
         patrimonial agreement on the valuation of assets to be transferred; (iii) aspects relating to the
         transfer of personnel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human resource-related issues; and (iv)
         legal and administrative aspects for decentralization;

         (b)      Management. The second set of Action Plans were meant to improve the management of
         the STU-BH subdivision, including: (i) the preparation and implementation of a manpower
         development plan to streamline the management and operations of STU-BH's staff through the
         proposal of concise job descriptions and adequate staffing; (ii) the study and implementation of
         cost accounting, management information systems, and financial management, so that timely and
         adequate cost management would become possible; (iii) the preparation of an action plan to
         improve inventory management since lack of spares was one of the main causes for the low rolling
         stock availability rates; (iv) the preparation of an action plan to subcontract maintenance and other
         operations to the private sector; (v) the preparation of an action plan to increase non-operating
         revenues by renting station space, advertising, and development of the STU-BH's real estate; and
         (vi) technical assistance and training for staff at all levels as proposed in the manpower plan.

         (c)      Modal Integration. The objective of the third set of Action Plans was to support the
         policy framework, and provide practical recommendations for implementing modal integration.
         This included studies of existing transport agencies with a view to reducing intermodal
         inefficiencies, namely: (i) a financing mechanism study focused on achieving formal sources of
         funds for the urban transport sector, including a tariff study focused on achieving multi-modal
         tariff integration and its operationalization; (ii) updating of the Transport, Land Use and Air
         Quality portion of the Master Plans of the BHMR with emphasis on route rationalization and
         modal and tariff integration; and (iii) BHTRANS/DER-MG route management and rationalization
         study.

This component also included training and technical assistance of the relevant sector staff of STU-BH, and
staff of participating agencies in the RTCC.

The project design was adequate to attain the objectives set at appraisal and to further the agenda for more
private sector participation. The capacity of the implementation agency was also adequate to implement the
project and there was a clear learning curve in procurement and supervision, particularly, in the
implementation of civil works. The implementation agency benefited from the experience gained in previous
projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained the same with minor adjustments on the infrastructure and equipment side, the
dropping of a few studies and their consolidation into main items, and local financing of some of the
activities, especially those in the environmental and safety component. For more details see Section 4.2.



                                                       - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory for the following reasons: a) the project was consistent with the CAS,
government priorities and Bank safeguard policies (see Section 7.1); b) the project's main beneficiaries
were the low-income populations of the Venda Nova (Vilarinho station area) and Eldorado areas, some of
the poorest areas of the BHMR; c) there was an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the project;
and d) most of the assumptions and risks estimated regarding external factors were widely discussed and
there was a consensus about them.


Although the present quality at entry procedures were not in place, this project underwent several internal
reviews to assess its technical feasibility and economic viability. Experts from the Transport and Urban
Development Department of the World Bank (TUDTR), namely the Transport and the Railways Advisers,
were called in to provide their inputs and accompany the identification mission. During project
identification and preparation the project team engaged in a constructive debate with the Borrower
regarding the role of the Bank and it was decided that the World Bank's role as "honest broker" between
the GOB and the State/Municipalities was crucial for the decentralization process because of the lack of
trust between those two parties. Project preparation was satisfactory as it forced CBTU to reenergize its
staff and evaluate options from an economic, technical and financial standpoint instead of a purely political
standpoint. A comprehensive technical, economic and financial evaluation of the project was carried out by
senior staff and experienced consultants.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provides an in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector and
addressed the probable risks that were likely to occur at that time, i.e. the delays in the timely transfer of
STU-BH to the local authorities, delays in the dialogue between the two levels of government for the actual
start of operations of the RTCC, the political reluctance to introduce regulatory and air quality related
policies, the timely availability of government funds to CBTU, and procurement delays. To minimize
delays in the actual transfer of ownership, the Loan Agreement linked disbursements with the date set for
the transfer. At the moment of project design, all three levels of government had progressed very well in the
modal and tariff coordination dialogue and a forerunner of a RTCC had already been established. All
parties had also agreed on the need for an integrated project and recognized that the risks were mainly
associated with their reluctance to relinquish some of their powers to a RTCC. Also, at the moment of
project design, there was a strong commitment to the environmental and traffic safety program from the
governments involved. The mitigation strategy that was proposed for minimizing procurement delays
consisted in starting at pre-appraisal the pre-qualification for lots in the critical path of project
implementation, in the use of standard bidding documents, and in requiring the Borrower to produce the
major tender documents at the moment of negotiations. The timely availability of counterpart funds was
addressed by seeking assurances that they were included in the GOB's 1995 and subsequent budgets.
Finally, the resettlement assessment and the environmental impact analysis were very thorough and paid off
as described in Section 10.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR assesses the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (3916-BR) as
satisfactory.

The broad objectives of the project were achieved in an adequate manner, even if the system is not yet
totally integrated, the new link between São Gabriel and Vilarinho is operating only with manual signalling


                                                     - 5 -

and the decentralization process is not fully completed. The satisfactory rating is justified by the fact that,
considering the current progress, the project is on an irreversible path towards meeting those final goals and
is likely to be sustainable (for details see Section 6). Moreover, the slowdown in some project activities and
the minor adjustments to single project or subproject components, that led to some deviations from the
original targets, had mainly been imposed by the chronic lack of counterpart funds and later of fiscal space
due to the macroeconomic policy changes at Federal government level after the Argentine crisis. It must
also be noted that the project has a NPV of US$ 48,907,000 and an EIRR of 17.1. For details see Annex 3.

The level of attainment of each of the specific project objectives is described in greater detail in the
subsequent paragraphs, while the project results for the key performance indicators are given in Annex 1.

The development of an integrated urban transport system for the BHMR (objective a) was achieved
with a substantial rail - municipal bus integration under BHTRANS, particularly at the São Gabriel
station, and with the integration of some of the intermunicipal buses at São Gabriel and Eldorado, which in
2003 provided 25% of the rail ridership. The integration at the Vilarinho station has started but at a much
smaller scale due to the low frequencies of the train system, which is still operating under manual signaling
in the São Gabriel-Vilarinho link. Overall, from 1995 to 2004, the number of bus lines physically and, to a
certain extent, also fare integrated with the metro system has increased by 91.4%.

                  Number of bus lines with fare and/or physical integration by operator
   Year      1995      1996       1997       1998     1999     2000       2001     2002     2003      2004
BHTRANS       20        28         47         58        60       60        60       64        64        64
DER           45        50         53         55        56       56        56       56        56        58
TRANSCO       16        21         21         19        22       31        31       33        33        33
N
Total         81        99        121        132       138      147       147       153      153       155
Source: STU-BH


The table clearly shows the key role played by the Municipality of Belo Horizonte, through BHTRANS, in
this process, which promptly restructured the municipal bus system through a plan called BHBUS, to
optimize it and facilitate integration. BHTRANS is continuing to have a very close collaboration with
STU-BH as far as transport planning is concerned, a best practice case in Latin America.

The State, on the other hand, has been less effective in its integration policies, mainly because the
Transport Directorate of the State Roads Agency (DER-MG), responsible, among others, for
intermunicipal bus services, was not very cooperative and always dominated by the strong bus owner lobby
that fears a loss in ridership to the metro and is opposing route rationalization. Nevertheless, DER-MG is
currently developing a project for the restructuring of the intermunicipal public transport network in
BHMR, which aims at the highest level of integration with the metro and the rationalization of the system
through the elimination of competing lines. Moreover, the State has also approved a law (Delegated Law -
Lei Delegada No. 100 from 2003) which mandates the transfer of the management of all public bus
services in the BHMR to the new company that is expected to receive the metro system, as soon as the
decentralization to the local authorities is completed. This is a key element in the complete integration
between these modes and was a bold step of the State government.

The Municipality of Contagem, through TRANSCON,                 is also closely working with STU-BH and
integration is realized at the Eldorado Station.

The following table only looks at full physical and fare integration and shows that it has increased by 35%



                                                       - 6 -

since 1995.

                                   Increase in fare integration since 1995
                          Year                                             Integrated Demand
                          1995                                                 10,485,053
                          1996                                                 10,157,690
                          1997                                                 10,260,665
                          1998                                                 11,277,398
                          1999                                                 12,823,386
                          2000                                                 13,618,444
                          2001                                                 12,810,313
                          2002                                                 12,356,055
                          2003                                                 14,160,371
Source: STU-BH


This percentage is likely to increase considerably as soon as the smart card-based electronic ticketing
system, already available on the whole municipal bus fleet, becomes operational also in the metro system.
As required by the project, STU-BH, BHTRANS and DER-MG regularly met during most of the project
implementation period under the auspices of a commission (RTCC) operated as a thematic chamber of the
Metropolitan Assembly (AMBEL). These regular meetings allowed for the coordination of transport
activities between the State and the municipalities. Initially they were very productive, but lost some of
their effectiveness because of political differences between the State and the Municipality of Belo
Horizonte. These meetings got even interrupted for a short period of time, but were resumed with the
discussions for the completion of the METROPLAN, the new transport, land use and air quality master
plan for the BHMR, financed under this loan. In addition, the State Government is currently proposing a
reorganization of AMBEL to give the State greater control over its decision making, with the aim to
facilitate regional transport coordination. This is likely to be the basis for the formalization of the regional
coordination entity.

The municipality of Belo Horizonte was also successful in eliminating the illegal vans, which started to
proliferate in the city after the appraisal of this project. This, as well as the institutional progress in terms
of metropolitan coordination, are two important achievements in Brazil and were part of the context of the
project.

Finally, it should also be noticed that BHTRANS concessioned out the municipal routes through
competitive bidding instead of operating "with permissions", being the first Municipality in Brazil to do so.
The lines of the intermunicipal bus system, operating under State jurisdiction, will also be concessioned in
the near future via competitive bidding using the METROPLAN as a basis. This will be another important
achievement.
Based on all these results, the achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory.

The decentralization of the STU-BH from the Federal to the State and municipal levels (objective b)
was only partially implemented. Nevertheless, the objective is rated satisfactory since concrete steps
towards decentralization have been given with the joint management of the system by the local authorities.
Indeed, notwithstanding the delays and adjustments to the original model, the decentralization process is set
on an irreversible path accepted by all parties and confirmed by the new Federal Administration, which
took over in January 2003. An additional reason for the satisfactory rating lies in the fact that the delays in
this process were greatly dependent on macroeconomic and political circumstances and administrative



                                                      - 7 -

hurdles.

The decentralization model currently followed in Belo Horizonte is different from the one in Rio de Janeiro
and São Paulo, even if it started out similarly, with a detailed transfer program approved as early as
November 1995. It then took until 1997 for the State of Minas Gerais to approve a law for the creation of
the new company, Trem Metropolitano de Belo Horizonte S.A. ­ TMBH, later called METROMINAS, to
absorb STU-BH. The municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem authorized the subscription of
respectively 35% and 10% of the shares of TMBH in December 1997 and July 1998, respectively.
However, at that point, neither the State nor the municipalities wanted to accept the transfer of the system
because the works were not even competed at the São Gabriel station. They also wanted assurances that
the salaries of the staff would be paid by the Federal Government until the completion of the works
included in the project.

Later in 1998, the incumbent State Government was defeated, and that brought in a new government which
was faced with a major financial crisis since even payments to civil servants could not be made. Relations
between the Federal and the new State Government were strained due to the debt negotiations between them
and that made it very difficult to progress with the decentralization because of a lack of trust, between the
two administrations. Again, only in 2000, and under Bank's pressure to comply with the decentralization
clause, the articles of agreement for TMBH were approved and the Board of Directors and the Fiscal
Council were elected. The decentralization date was then set for December 2000 to allow for the hiring of
new operating staff (mainly train drivers), but was not complied with because the Federal Government had
not approved the law, which guaranteed the payment of salaries to the staff until the completion of the
works. Instead, a new detailed transfer program was prepared with the decentralization date of June 2001.
Again this deadline was not respected, since a number of issues related to the transfer had still to be
resolved, such as the payment of bonuses, which in the opinion of the State were part of the staff salaries
and which the Federal Government refused to pay to the State. The State had also requested an increase in
the rail fare to a level closer to the municipal bus fares but wanted the Federal Government to increase it
prior to decentralization, so that the political responsibility would not be theirs. Other issues included the
role of the State in the federally financed Calafate-Barreiro extension, and, above all, the agreement by the
Federal Government to support the payroll of STU-BH staff until 6 months after the completion of works.
Moreover, political factors also played an important role since the Federal Government wanted the system
to be inaugurated in an election year (2002). All these postponements had been accompanied by strict
warnings of the Bank and culminated in the suspension of disbursements in October 2001, lifted 3 months
later.

With the suspension of disbursements, both parties started talking again and all the steps were given to
finally decentralize the system. By end of October 2002, the State and the Municipalities had signed the
documents accepting the transfer, which was conditional to the approval of the law guaranteeing the
payment of staff salaries until 6 months after the completion of the works. This law was submitted for
approval, but at that time the new Federal Administration was already elected and its Transition
Commission, negotiating the handover with the outgoing government, refused to pass it. Indeed, the newly
elected Government was heavily under the pressure from the railway unions, which defended the Federal
employee status since it traditionally guaranteed more stability than the one of State employee.

With the taking over of a new Federal Government in January 2003, the project was transferred to the
Ministry of Cities, which deals with urban development, urban mobility, housing, water and sanitation. The
Ministry of the Cities proposed a change in the decentralization model. The new model recognized that the
State finances had worsened since the enactment of the decentralization law, mainly due to the
macroeconomic crisis that affected the country. It also took into account that the Federal government's


                                                      - 8 -

restrictions on disbursements in the last three years had delayed the completion of the works. Therefore, a
gradual decentralization process was proposed (instead of outright decentralization) during which all
operating and management responsibilities of the system, including the supervision of the ongoing works
financed under the loan, as well as the responsibility for covering operational costs, except staff salaries,
would first be decentralized, with full decentralization to follow after the completion of the works.

The new model, worked out in detail by CBTU and the Ministry of Cities, was only presented in September
2003. It envisages a management contract as the basis for the payment of salaries and operating subsidies
by the Federal Government and the constitution of a mixed federal-state company for the management of
the system, in which the Federal Government continues to be shareholder for a percentage proportional to
the amount of subsidy, at least until the works are completed.

The State and the Municipalities accepted in principle the new model, but reserved their right to work out
more details with CBTU. In June 2004, a joint management team composed of a representative of the State,
the Federal Government (CBTU) and the Municipality of Belo Horizonte was nominated and thus started
the gradual decentralization process of STU-BH. In that occasion, CBTU also passed the responsibility for
the supervision of the final works to the local level. With this action the first and irreversible steps of the
new model were given.

                                     Important Decentralization Milestones
Date                   Achievements
November 1995          Detailed transfer program approved
May 1997               Creation of the Special Commission for the Transfer of the System that met regularly
                       throughout the project implementation period
July 1997              Approval by State of Minas Gerais of a law to create a new company (Trem Metropolitano
                       de Belo Horizonte S.A. - TMBH) to abosrb STU-BH
December 1997          Approval of a decree authorizing the Municipality of Belo Horizonte to subscribe 35% of
                       the shares of TMBH
July 1998              Approval of a municipal law authorizing the Municipality of Contagem to subscribe 10%
                       of the shares of TMBH
Beginning 1998         Appointment of the directors of TMBH by both levels of government, as well as indication
                       by the State of the intention to concession out the system to the private sector
1998                   State election and defeat of incumbent government, which meant uncertain about
                       concessioning the system out and the need to nominate a new director
February 2000          Approval of articles of agreement for the new company, election of the Board of Directors
                       and the Fiscal Council
December 2000          Approval of a new detailed transfer program
2001                   Appointment of new director by State
October 2001           Suspension of disbursements since several decentralization deadlines had not been
                       complied with
End of December 2002 Opposition of the Transition Commission of newly elected Federal Government to support
                       the payroll of STU-BH staff until 6 months after copletion of work
March 2003             Announcement of the new Federal Government of its intention to change the
                       decentralization process with a gradual model to be completed by June 2004
September 2003         Ministry of Cities presented new decentralization model, elaborated by CBTU
October 2003           State and Municipality showed their satisfaction with the model and worked with CBTU on
                       the details
June 2004              Nomination of a joint management team and delegation of the supervision of the works to
                       the local level




                                                        - 9 -

The reduction of the environmental impacts on the BHMR due to motor vehicles and the promotion
of non-motorized transport modes (objective c) was substantially completed with the introduction of the
new centralized traffic light system, which is already operating but is expected to become fully functional at
"real time" in the beginning of 2005. The new system already provides for more efficient traffic
management since traffic light maintenance is simplified and errors in the system are automatically
detected. Enhanced user information through message panel is also available. All this has reduced the
environmental burden from motorized traffic, and will, once the system is fully functional, further improve
traffic circulation, speed up bus operations, and consequently decrease energy consumption, reaching the
desired environmental benefits, which are estimated at a 23% reduction of emissions (CO, Nox, VOC and
CO2), an annual saving of 7.7 million l of gasoline and 1.1 million l of diesel. The installation of less
energy consuming LED lighting constitutes a further progress in the same direction.

Pedestrian safety and security is already improved through a considerable expansion of crossings with
pedestrian lights, longer pedestrian cycles and an important increase in lights that can be activated by
pedestrians. It will be further improved once the centralized traffic light system is operating in real time due
to reduced pedestrian waiting times at traffic lights and more efficient LED lighting. Other measures to
promote walking include the improvement of accesses to stations through sidewalks and overpasses, better
parking policies and traffic safety campaigns. BHTRANS also carried out a detailed safety audit, with the
respective recommendations being under implementation.

Bicycle facilities exist in the São Gabriel and the Eldorado stations and are planned at Vilarinho and José
Cândido. The construction of bikeways in the catchment area of the metro is also envisaged.

Based on these considerations, the objective is rated as satisfactory.

The improvement of the accessibility of the low-income population to employment centers, health and
education facilities (objective d) was achieved in a number of ways. First of all, the metro system is
mainly used by lower income groups to reach work places and health and education facilities. Indeed,
according to a user survey carried out by CBTU in 2000, about 50% of the users of the metro system
belong to households earning less than 5 minimum salaries, with 23% earning less than 3 minimum salaries
and only 17% earning more than 7. This user profile is also reflected in their education, with 28% being
illiterate or not having completed the first 8 years of compulsory school attendance. In particular, the
extension of the system to Vilarinho, in Venda Nova, and the integration of the system at São Gabriel
attends the mobility needs of some of the poorest areas in the BHMR. Even with a lower than projected
frequency (due to manual signalling) in the São Gabriel to Vilarinho link, the lower income users living in
the areas of influence of the new stations have lower out-of-pocket costs with a combination of access by
foot/rail and/or municipal bus/rail/municipal bus. The impact will be more significant when the signaling
of the new link is completed and the train frequency increased.

Low income populations are also considerably better off because of the improvement of the accesses to the
Vilarinho and Eldorado stations and the increased integration possibilities. Moreover, the project put
specific focus on people with reduced mobility. Indeed, in addition to the questions of accesses, all metro
stations are equipped with elevators for the elderly and disabled people and escalators. This has been
accompanied by a strong committment by BHTRANS to favor those with "reduced mobility". This led to
equipping 13% of their bus fleet with elevators/low floor. Full conversion of the fleet is expected by 2006.
In addition, special minibus lines were created to serve people with reduced mobility. The latter are also
privileged in the new parking strategy, with the provision of a considerable number of reserved parking
spaces.


                                                    - 10 -

Another aspect that furthers inclusion, is the creation of seven minibus lines with reduced fares (R$ 0.35
instead of the basic fare of R$ 1.45) to serve slums (vilas and favelas). Bicycle facilities will also facilitate
the metro-bicycle integration and reduce transport costs for users.

Based on all these considerations, the objective is rated as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A - The Infrastructure and Equipment Component (planned US$ $ 182,700,000; actual US$
191,598,000)
This component was designed to extend STU-BH's rail system and to build the additional stations required
to enhance modal integration, to build transfer terminals and improve physical accesses required for the
actual integration of buses, rail, pedestrians, cars and bicycles, and to install a road traffic signal control
system to improve traffic safety at 263 intersections. It was 72% completed at the closing date of the loan,
thus can be considered as satisfactory. The non-timely completion of this component is mainly due to (i)
implementation delays first caused by a chronic shortage of counterpart funds, and since 2002 by a lack of
budget allocation for fiscal space reasons, (ii) the late effectiveness of the project, and (iii) some
procurement delays due to court litigation. Each subcomponent is examined in detail as follows.

The Civil Works Program (93.3% completed) consisted of (i) Lot A, including the construction of two
stations, one tunnel, two railway viaducts, one road viaduct and two pedestrian overpasses (100%
completed); (ii) Lot B, comprising of the construction of one station, one tunnel, one road viaduct and two
pedestrian overpasses (100% completed); (iii) Lot C, consisting of the construction of one station (100%
completed); (vi) Lot D, consisting of the construction of one station, one pedestrian underpass, one road
viaduct, one pedestrian overpass (100% completed); (v) the construction of one station and the building for
STU-BH's administration (100% completed); (vi) the construction of two terminals (one 100% completed
and one in the bidding phase for the design); (vii) the acquisition of elevators and escalators for all stations
(100% completed); and (viii) improvements of accesses to stations and the construction of two pedestrian
passages (100% completed).

The Permanent Way Program (100% completed) included (i) the provision of track materials for a 5 km
line from Santa Inês to São Gabriel and (ii) the construction of a 7 km line extension from São Gabriel to
Vilarinho.

The Systems Program (83.9% completed) included (i) the installation of 6.6 km of overhead catenary and
transmission cables, one sub-station and one sectionalizing cabin (100% completed); (ii) the replacement of
the existing Central Traffic Control (CTC) from Eldorado to São Gabriel (100% completed); (iii) the
installation of vital interlocking relaying circuits in the 5 km section from Santa Inês to São Gabriel with
materials and equipment in stock (100% completed); (iv) the supply and installation of a new signaling
system in the 6.6 km extension (47.2% completed); (v) the installation of a Virtual Integrated Internal
Phone Network          (100% completed); (vi) an integrated telecommunication system on the São
Gabriel-Vilarinho extension (100% completed); and (vii) ticketing control equipment in all 19 stations
(100% completed).

The Workshop Program (51.6% completed) included the provision of miscellaneous equipment for the
new Matadouro workshop, and of equipment for general maintenance of the permanent way and systems.

The Rolling Stock Program (75% completed) included (i) the improvement of five EMUs (bidding process
to be launched); and (ii) the acquisition of ten EMUs (all delivered).


                                                      - 11 -

Part B - The Environmental and Traffic Safety Program (planned US$ 360,000; actual US$ 500,000)
Under the environmental and traffic safety program it was envisaged to (a) design an inspection and
maintenance (I/M) program for vehicle emissions and noise; and (b) develop a traffic management and
safety program. In 1997, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte, through BHTRANS, asked the Bank to
replace the study regarding traffic safety and the design of the inspection and maintenance (I/M) program
with the acquisition and installation of two air pollution monitoring stations. The Bank agreed with this
replacement (see Aide Memoire of July 14 to 15, 1997), but the bidding process was only launched in June
2004 due to a lack of resources. The design of the I/M program will be undertaken by the
State/Municipality following guidelines by the Federal Ministry of Environment.

As far as traffic management is concerned, however, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte carried out a
number of important activities, namely the installation of new pedestrian lights, the application of
pedestrian activation devices, and the preparation of the network for the electric feeding of lights. A new
control software is operational, and 244 new traffic light controllers, nine area concentrators and ten
electronic message panels were installed. The control center and the data transmission network are also
ready. It is expected that the system will be fully real-time operational by the beginning of 2005. In terms
of traffic safety, BHTRANS carried out a complete Transit Safety Audit to assess the operating conditions
of crossings, the programming of traffic lights and their visibility, the geometric conditions, the existence of
safety devises for pedestrians and the quality of road markings and signs. The recommendations of this
audit are under implementation. The Municipality of Belo Horizonte is also currently investing about US$
5.5 million for the improvement of the principal transport corridors, the introduction of bus lanes and the
elimination of bottlenecks. This is expected to further increase public transport speed and improve
pedestrian safety. Other measures implemented by BHTRANS include the introduction of parking policies
and the organization of traffic safety campaigns.

Considering the large amount of activities related to traffic management and safety carried out by the
Municipality of Belo Horizonte and the fact that the bidding for the air monitoring stations was launched
before the closure of the project, this component is rated satisfactory.

Part C - The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan (planned US$ 14,280,000; actual US$
14,995,000)
This component embraced training, technical assistance and studies to facilitate and assure the long run
sustainability of the decentralization process. It included support for the decentralization and modal
integration processes and improvements in the STU-BH's system management. It is rated satisfactory,
even if not everything that was originally envisaged was carried out because of the replacement of some
studies and consolidation of others into major activities, as well as the delay in the decentralization of the
system. Nevertheless, some of the results on the institutional front are very important and are described
below in a more detailed way.

In terms of support to the decentralization process the main outputs are: (i) a blueprint for the institutional
and organizational transfer arrangements; (ii) the evaluation of STU-BH's assets and completion of an
inventory required for the transfer; (iii) an action plan regarding the human resource needs, which led to the
hiring of more operating personnel; and (iv) the preparation of the legal documents for the decentralization.

Providing support to the management of the decentralized system was not possible since the first step to
decentralization only took place just prior to loan closing. Nevertheless, STU-BH improved the
management information systems, carried out a study regarding alternative institutional models, considering
partnerships with the private sector. This study also known as the "concession study" was very


                                                      - 12 -

comprehensive since it started by examining the technical, staffing, and financial situation of the system
and then proposed and evaluated several private sector participation options for different scenarios. As
mentioned above, the comprehensiveness of the study allowed the State to decide the extent of subsidies and
private sector participation required. On the other hand, private financing in Belo Horizonte is already a
reality, with 13.3% of STU-BH's revenues in 2003 coming from non operational sources, mainly through
advertisement in stations and on vehicles, which at appraisal only amounted to 6.2%. Another study
analyzed the structure of the public transport fare system for the BHMR.

Staff from the STU participated in several seminars on procurement, disbursement, privatization and
regulation of transport services, transport coordination and decentralization and other public transport
related topics, which were financed under this component.

Support to modal integration was provided through several studies, including (i) the Origin/Destination
(O/D) survey for the BHMR, the first in 10 years, which is now completed; (ii) the METROPLAN, that is
the study to design an Integrated Urban Transport , Land Use and Air Quality Management Strategy for
the BHMR, which will be the first ever done in the region; (iii) the rail passenger master plan (plano
diretor de transporte de passageiros sobre trilhos) of RMBH; (iv) the elaboration of a study regarding the
fare structure of the public transport system in the BHMR; and (v) the elaboration of the basic projects for
Lines 2 (Calfate-Hospital) and Line 3 (Lagoinha-Savassi) to prepare the system for future expansions.

Additional studies and consulting activities that took place under this project include the technical
assistance in the resettlement and expropriation operations, environmental assessments for the extension to
Vilarinho, engineering studies and designs, and technical project supervision.

In summary, some of the results achieved by the project particularly on the institutional component are
noteworthy and draw intensively on this component. They include:

(i)      the beginning of the decentralization of STU-BH from the Federal Government to State of Minas
         Gerais and Municipality of Belo Horizonte, including the realization of a seminar on international
         experience to assist the new Federal Government in strengthening their new decentralization model;
         with participation from the Consórcio de Transportes of Madrid and the Paris public transport
         operator (RATP);

(ii)     the creation of a new company, TMBH or METROMINAS, to operate the transferred assets;

(iii)    the hiring of additional operating staff which had been blocked for years;

(iv)     the regular functioning of a regional transport coordination commission, and the proposal of a law
         to restructure AMBEL, which is likely to formalize this entity;

(v)      a concession study to evaluate options to increase private sector participation in the decentralized
         system, so that the State could decide a road map for its future;

(vi)     the introduction of the BHBUS system by the Municipality, which emphasized hub and spoke
         networks and re-routed several lines to serve the rail system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Project works, which accounted for a total investment net of taxes and duties of US$ 123.425 million,
yielded a project net present value (NPV) of US$ 48.907 million, and an economic rate of return (EIRR) of



                                                     - 13 -

17.1%. These calculations also include the benefits of the externalities stemming from project
implementation, i.e. improved air quality and reduced accidents.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was substantial, as the activities described under
Section 4.2 above indicate. The project provided resources for training, improved STU-BH's management,
created a strong incentive for the rail and bus sectors to regularly meet and allowed for the negotiation of a
new decentralization model with the Federal Government, the preparation of the legal documents for the
transfer of the system and the creation of a joint STU-BH management team to implement the new
decentralization model of the system. The other main institutional development impact was to make
STU-BH fully aware of how to prioritize its investments and to be commercially oriented, trying to reduce
subsidies and at the same time providing a service that benefits the low income classes.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Substantial fluctuations of local currency and economic crisis
During project implementation, Brazil's economy was effected by the repercussions of the severe economic
crisis that hit Argentina in 2001 and by substantial fluctuations of its local currency (from 0.96 BRL for
1US$ at the moment of appraisal to 3.1 BRL for 1US$ at project closure). This decreased the availability
of the necessary counterpart funds for the project, and consequently was highly detrimental to its timely
completion.

Since project costs had been estimated and were partly payable in dollars, the currency devaluation
required a considerably higher amount of counterpart funds than originally estimated, even if the loan
proceeds in dollars compensated for some of the exchange rate losses as far as the local project component
is concerned. Overall, however, the devaluation of the Real was mostly negative for the project.


The substantial fluctuations of the Brazilian currency also required great flexibility by the project team,
which had to adjust to a strengthening dollar by reprogramming project investments and trying to spend
more to ensure adequate disbursements, and then readjusting, as the dollar weakened.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Shortage in counterpart funds and fiscal space
The shortage in counterpart funds since early 1999 cannot only be blamed on the economic situation in the
country, but is also directly attributable to the Federal Government that made it a priority to meet the
surplus targets agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). While a tight control of public
expenditures has helped the Government to maintain a stable and positive macroeconomic outlook, as a
matter of fact, the budgets assigned to the project the last three years before project closure were not
sufficient to carry out the works at the planned speed. The question was of fiscal space, i.e. the budget
authorized to be spent in the project, from loan sources or from counterpart funds, was always smaller than
the loan proceeds available and what was required to meet the proposed implementation schedule. This
reduction of budget coupled with very frequent delays in allowing payments of the already limited budget
led to delays in issuing bids and in the suspension of works by contractors, which had outstanding invoices.
From 2003 to project closing in June 2004, this situation aggravated even further and led to the
impossibility of using US$ 6.5 Million of the Bank loan funds. No further extensions of closing date were



                                                     - 14 -

possible because of the age of the project and the systematic lack of compliance by the Federal
Government.

Lack of leadership in the decentralization process
Further factors subject to the Federal Government control were the lack of leadership in the
decentralization process and the change of the model, which ultimately were responsible for the fact that the
decentralization process was started very late. The Ministry of Transport and the CBTU, as the original
representatives of the Federal Government, were never champions in assuring the State's compliance with
the original decentralization model, as it was the case, particularly with CBTU in São Paulo and Rio. The
Ministry of Cities, which succeeded the Ministry of Transport, together with the newly appointed CBTU
presidency, also contributed to the delay in the implementation of the new decentralization model, as
outlined in Section 4.1, despite Bank requests for a faster definition of their model.

Late signing of the loan agreement and delays in effectiveness
The Federal Government signed the Loan Agreements with a four-month delay, thus contributing to the
postponement of the effectiveness date to 10 months after Board Approval, which caused considerable
project implementation and disbursement delays. The main delays in signing were due to delays in the
Senate approval process. The delays in effectiveness were mainly related to problems in registering the loan
with the Central Bank, a process which should be easy to comply with               but was complicated by
unacceptable bureaucracy.

Ambiguousness of the Brazilian procurement law
Finally, it should also be highlighted that due to the ambiguousness of the Brazilian procurement law, as
far as the applicability of the Bank procurement procedures is concerned, a small contractor association
challenged the applicability of the Bank's standard bidding documents in court. This delayed the start of the
civil works and thus impacted on the project duration.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management and supervision of civil works and equipment rehabilitation at central level
The fact that CBTU's central organization in Rio insisted in directly managing and supervising the civil
works and the equipment component, instead of delegating it to the local level, considerably reduced the
speed of project implementation because decisions often were slow and CBTU's legal department did not
quickly respond in case of litigation. When asked for delegation of responsibilities to the local level
CBTU's management argued that it had to keep the project under its direct responsibility because in case of
fraud and/or corruption they would be personally responsible, with a risk of confiscation of the Director
own personal assets. This also created a level of tension between the local staff of STU-BH and CBTU's
staff, and between the State and the Federal Government, leading to a situation which was not favorable to
rapid project implementation. Several requests from the Bank team for more delegation of activities to the
local level were met with promises that did not materialize until nearly the end of the project, with the
delegation of the day-to-day project supervision to STU-BH' staff in June 2004.

Lack of leadership in the decentralization process
As already briefly mentioned in Section 5.2, CBTU's presidency since 1997 was unable to provide any
leadership in the decentralization process and seemed at times less interested in it than the State. While in
the case of São Paulo and Rio there was a major effort by CBTU's Board of Directors to push for the
compliance with the decentralization clauses, in the case of Belo Horizonte it seemed at times that the
Board of Directors would create rather than remove obstacles for the transfer of the system. Part of this
negative attitude can probably be related to the political power that would be lost by CBTU's leadership
after transferring the Belo Horizonte system. CBTU's leadership from 2003 onwards also seemed very



                                                    - 15 -

undecided on how to implement the new model. Moreover, it was pressured by the railway unions, which
preferred to continue under the Federal Government mainly because they feared a greater likelihood of
system concessioning to the private sector under the State and Municipal authority. A strong intervention of
the Ministry of the Cities almost at the end of the project was necessary to force the start of the
decentralization process.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs were slightly higher than appraisal estimates (US$ 207.09 million versus US$ 197.34
million at appraisal). The cost overruns were mainly due to a need for additional resettlements (see Section
10 on Resettlement), increased market values for land, additional activities or details not envisaged at
appraisal or required by the local authorities. In general terms, the delays in the completion of works due
to a lack of resources from the Federal Government augmented their costs in terms of contract price
adjustments and increased supervision and management costs.

The project suffered considerable disbursement delays, that at project closure reached 47 months, mainly
due to its late effectiveness, delays in procurement and above all the unavailability of counterpart funds. As
a partial remedy to the latter, four loan proceeds reallocations were granted, adjusting the percentages of
expenditure financed by the Bank. At the original closing date (December 2001) the Bank loan was 75%
disbursed. Five project extensions were granted. At project closure the disbursements amounted to 92.16%
of the Bank loan. A four-months grace period for the payment of invoices issued before loan closure was
granted, at the end of which 93.05% of the loan funds were disbursed. The lack of full loan funds
disbursement is caused by the insufficient budget allocation of the Federal Government to this project. The
mismatch of project cost overruns and the incomplete disbursement of loan funds is explained by the fact
that the cost overruns mainly affected cost items not financed by the Bank or financed only at a low
percentage. Finally, the risk that CBTU is not committed to conclude the original works and the equipment
program is low because it is part of its contract with the State and the contracts are signed and undergoing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. The successful collaboration in terms of integration with BHTRANS, the
constant dialogue among all bus operators and the metro, and the creation of a joint management team to
run the system and complete the decentralization process agreed with by the Federal Government, and a
number of legal changes to facilitate full integration and coordination are all factors that bolster project
sustainability (for details see Section 4.1).

The extension of the metro network in Belo Horizonte increased its potential for commercial viability and
the rolling stock and track infrastructure component arrested the deterioration of the system. In fact, even if
this process is not yet completely finalized, it has already prompted a significant recovery in daily
passenger levels, which nearly doubled since appraisal. Once the automatic signaling system on the
Vilarinho link is working, the train frequency will be increased, and with all rolling stock in operation, the
improved service levels and the increased train availability will automatically attract additional users and
should lead in a natural way to full integration, increasing the ridership to levels that will make the system
economically interesting, with good chances that it will culminate in a concession to the private sector, as
happened in Rio de Janeiro.

Equally, the improvement of the traffic light system and the reorganization of the bus system are two
aspects which will improve road circulation, thereby decreasing congestion, reducing negative externalities
and strengthen the overall level of performance of the urban transport sector.



                                                     - 16 -

Furthermore, the existence of a blueprint for the integrated urban transport, land use and air quality
strategy as a result of the METROPLAN and the study of the two extensions for the system will allow
decision makers to consider, in a very rational way, the best options for improving the overall urban
transport system of the BHMR.

The interest of the private sector in the system should also be seen as an indication of its likely
sustainability. Indeed, the Oiapoque terminal was implemented with a private investment of US$ 135,000.
The private investments in the Barreiro integration station totaled US$ 13,500,000 and another private
partnership that brought investments of US$ 330,000 took place for the installation of shelters for public
transport users.

Finally, the recent reelection in the first round of the incumbent Mayor of Belo Horizonte means continuity
and thus is a further point in favor of sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This is not applicable because the rail system has been in operation throughout project implementation.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
During identification, the project team engaged in a constructive debate with the Borrower regarding the
role of the Bank in this operation. It was decided that the World Bank as "honest broker" would be best
poised to assist the GOB in the decentralization process. The project team made a strong case that this
project provided a unique opportunity to restructure the rail transport sector in Belo Horizonte, support the
transition of STU-BH to become a more cost-efficient and user oriented operation, and provide the stepping
stone for the eventual concession of the rail system to the private sector. Also the extension of the rail
system to some very poor areas of the BHMR was important in the decision to support the project.

In that sense, the project was fully in line with the 1993 CAS that put emphasis on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support
systems to the poor. The project aimed at these objectives by (i) promoting reforms and financial viability
of the train operator, including the decentralization of the system to the State, (ii) fostering private
participation in its operation, (iii) increasing the efficiency of infrastructure investments, (iv) contributing
to improved access for the poor, and (v) reducing government subsidies. The project is also consistent with
the 2003 CAS that sets as goals greater equity, sustainability and competitiveness through: (i) investments
in people, (ii) growth through productivity, (iii) stabilization of the economy, (iv) delivery of government
services to all, and (v) management of the natural inheritance. Indeed, the improvement of the urban
transport system leads to greater productivity of cities and the greater accessibility to health, education and
leisure facilities, enhancing the investment in people and decreasing social exclusion. Also, a greater
financial viability of the system and thus a decrease in State operating subsidies contributes to improving
the finances of the State.

The Bank's role in project preparation stimulated CBTU to reenergize its staff and evaluate options from
an economic and financial instead of a purely technical or political standpoint. The project design that
resulted from this interaction was adequate because it did not only consider the technical aspects, but
focused on the four pillars essential for the proper management of urban transport systems. Indeed, it
strived for the establishment of some form of regional coordination entity and the integration of transport,



                                                      - 17 -

land use and environmental aspects. It also stressed the need to look for financing mechanisms for the
sector, such as advertising, the use of station space for shops and community events, the use of the
right-of-way for cable and fiber optics, and investigated the potential of private sector participation.
Nevertheless, the complexity of the decentralization process in Belo Horizonte was somewhat
underestimated by the successes in São Paulo and Rio. And, so was the magnitude of the counterpart funds
shortage due to the stringent Brazil-IMF surplus targets, which led the Treasury to prioritize its projects,
relegating investment on infrastructure to a very low priority and causing considerable delays. Finally, the
schedules for works, which had been based on similar experiences in Brazil, turned out to be very
optimistic, particularly due to litigation in the procurement process and because some firms lacked the
working capital to survive the long delays in payment by CBTU.

During project appraisal, a comprehensive technical, economic and financial evaluation of the project and
a thorough analysis of the actors and stakeholders was carried out by senior Bank staff and senior
consultants in works, rolling stock and systems. The economic evaluation was done in great detail,
including a very thorough sensitivity analysis for several scenarios, and the financial analysis of the system
evaluated the situation with and without the project, as described in the SAR. The latter also provides an
in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector and addressed the probable risks that were likely to occur at
the time, e.g. delays in the actual transfer of the system, the non timely availability of counterpart funds,
and procurement delays. Lessons from previous urban transport projects in Brazil, in particular in Rio de
Janeiro and São Paulo, were taken into account in the project design and performance indicators were
defined. The lending instrument was suitable since the main part of the project was investment-related.
There were no problems as far as the consistency with the Bank's safeguards was concerned.

Based on all these considerations, lending is considered as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Sufficient resources were allocated towards project supervision, which allowed for the constant monitoring
of the project. Supervision comprised of 63.8 staff weeks, of which nearly half were spent in the field.
Supervision missions took place on average every three to four months, were small in Bank staff, but made
efficient use of local consultants, and lasted a relatively short duration. Bank staff tended to combine
supervision mission with other missions to the region under the same implementation agent (CBTU), which
proved to be very cost-effective, particularly insofar as travel is concerned. Staff continuity permitted a
high level of vigilance and a strong institutional memory to guide the Borrower through implementation
difficulties.

Supervision was particularly intense for the works between São Gabriel and Vilarinho, and great resources
were allocated in the first half of the project to assist CBTU in preparing the difficult decentralization
process, developing the necessary legal and regulatory framework to undertake the transfer, and ensuring
that the necessary institutional restructuring took place. Also, the studies that laid the ground for the
decentralization of the system and that investigated the alternative institutional models, including the
private sector involvement, were closely followed. Supervision intensified even more when the several
deadlines for decentralization were near. The project team met several times with the representatives of the
State, Municipalities and Federal Government trying to act as an honest broker in the delicate negotiation
process. Several meetings were held with the Ministries of Transport and Cities to discuss the issues and
changes in the model. The Federal Secretary of Foreign Affairs (SEAIN) was periodically informed of the
status of the project, the budget constraints, and the delays in the decentralization process.

For each supervision mission, the Implementation Agency prepared a detailed project status report. This
allowed for timely identification of problems, implementation delays and spending shortages, thereby



                                                     - 18 -

facilitating the corrective actions. All supervision missions were documented in the PSRs and the Aide
Memoires.

During the mid-term review the progress indicator targets were revised since their timely achievement had
resulted unrealistic in light of the delays in the completion of the works and the full integration of the
system. Thus, the targets set at the appraisal, still to be met when the works are fully completed and the
integration realized, were adjusted to reflect these implementation delays.

The Bank team literally had to act as a "honest broker" because of the constant bickering between the State
and the Federal Government. The chronic counterpart fund shortage and the changes in the political
composition at State and federal level required the task manager to send several strong warning signs and
even suspend the execution of the project. Several requests for additional budget resources were sent and a
number of meetings took place among the Directors of the CMU, the task manager and the representatives
of the Federal and State Governments, especially when an extension of closing date was requested. Two
extensions were granted to give the new administration a chance to reformulate the decentralization model
according to its views and to start its implementation. Meetings with the Ministry of Transport, initially,
and the Ministry of the Cities, later, were held at different stages of the original decentralization process
and after the proposal of the new model. Finally, the relentless pursuit of this objective paid off.

Based on all these considerations, supervision is considered fully satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank team played an important role during project identification, preparation and appraisal and their
performance was fully satisfactory. The supervision of the system was particularly intense to ensure that
the infrastructure and studies were completed and, at the same time, that the decentralization process stayed
in motion. Throughout this project the Bank was credited for its role as mediator between the Federal
Government, the State Government and the Municipality. It facilitated the continuous dialogue between the
metro and the bus operators at municipal and intermunicipal level and the creation of the joint management
team for the operation of the metro. Finally, the efforts by the Bank team to obtain from the Ministry of
Planning and Transport/Ministry of Cities the allocation of more resources to the project was highly valued
by CBTU and the State. Thus, overall the Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation, through the Ministry of Transport and CBTU, in the preparation of the
project was satisfactory. Both adequately identified the required civil works, assessed the status of the
rolling stock, estimated the investment needs and recognized the institutional weaknesses in the sector. They
supported the Bank team in the preparation of the project and facilitated all the contacts with local
authorities, industry representatives and real estate companies. CBTU also prepared the equivalent of the
current project implementation plan and assisted the Bank in the economic evaluation and financial analysis
of the project.

The CBTU team clearly understood the environmental and resettlement impacts of the project and the
proposed mitigations, something new in CBTU's activities, and mastered well the safeguard requirements.
Preparations for timely procurement were taken and demand analysis and project economic and financial
evaluation techniques were re-introduced in CBTU, as a by-product of the intensive participation in project
preparation.

In summary, the Ministry of Transport and CBTU worked in good faith throughout project preparation and



                                                      - 19 -

provided substantial logistical support and the necessary information to appraise the project. Nevertheless,
they also underestimated the complexity of the decentralization process and the extent of the resettlement
and expropriation needed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As already mentioned, the Ministry of Transport, as the original representative of the Federal Government,
was never a champion in assuring the compliance of the State with the decentralization model agreed at
appraisal. Most of the initiatives to keep the decentralization process moving were pushed by the Bank,
while the Ministry was passive and did not use all possible remedies to accelerate the transfer. Once the
new Federal Government was elected, the original decentralization process which was about to be
implemented was brought to a halt and the responsibility for the project transferred to the newly created
Ministry of Cities. The latter also took very long to present its new decentralization model and together
with CBTU was slow in implementing it.

The low budget allocations to the project in the last three years are also a sign of the relatively poor
performance of the Federal Government, which did not comply with its commitments albeit, according to
them, due to the macroeconomic crisis and the surplus target agreements with the IMF. When contacted,
the Ministry of Finance argued that allocating more or less within the Ministry's allocation was a
prerogative of the Ministry of Cities. The Ministry of the Cities claimed its budget was insufficient. The
State and the Federal administrations also failed in seeking appropriate and quick solutions for the
commitments they had assumed.

The State of Minas Gerais and the Municipality of Belo Horizonte were not very cooperative on the
decentralization process either since it took them a very long time until they created the company expected
to take over STU-BH. The process improved when the Bank suspended disbursements and, after they had
reached an agreement that the Federal Government would pay the salaries for a certain period after the
completion of the works, the State/Municipality promptly prepared all the documentation necessary to
receive the system. Nevertheless they took long to do so. Once the new decentralization model was
proposed in September 2003, the State and the Municipality supported it with enthusiasm and completed
the steps for the joint management of the system. The State was also unable to put effective pressure on the
DER-MG to produce a rationalization of the intermunicipal bus system and a more efficient modal
integration.

Based on these considerations, the implementation performance of the Federal Government in the
decentralization process and in the provision of adequate financial resources is considered as
unsatisfactory. Insofar as the State of Minas is concerned, their effort towards the end of 2002 to receive
the system and the law delegating to the new company the management of all intermunicipal buses make its
performance marginally satisfactory.

The Belo Horizonte Municipality's performance was satisfactory because it supported the bus
rationalization and system integration through the BHTRANS, worked effectively with CBTU and the
State, provided the technical support in the implementation of the traffic light system and had also prepared
all the documentation to receive the system by the end of 2002.




                                                    - 20 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of CBTU was adequately staffed with well-skilled engineers and
planners, and supported by a project implementation consultant. Moreover, the head of the PIU did not
change throughout the project, which provided for continuity. With staff training in procurement sponsored
by previous Bank projects, CBTU was able to adequately master the Bank's procurement guidelines and
standard bidding documents. Overall, the PIU was a diligent implementation agent, correctly applying the
Bank's rules and requirements. Progress reports were duly and timely submitted throughout the project and
were very detailed, following a format agreed with the Bank. In general, the audit reports as well as the
entity financial statements were submitted on time and accepted without reservations. There was
compliance with all the Bank safeguard policies, and the handling of the resettlement issues in this project
was outstanding.

Even if the PIU performed well, problems during project implementation arose at the CBTU's
decision-making level. The fact that CBTU's central organization in Rio insisted in directly managing the
civil works and the equipment component, refusing until nearly the end of the project to delegate it to the
local level, despite several requests from the Bank, reduced the speed of the implementation process. For
more details see Section 5.3. Indeed, although CBTU's staff visited the project frequently, decisions at the
level of the Presidency and the Technical Directorate were slow and its Legal Department did not quickly
respond to litigation because of inadequate staffing. In particular, CBTU's management from 1997-2002
was not very committed to the decentralization, showing more interest only on the works and equipment.
The Technical Directorate from 2003 to June 2004 was slow in accelerating the signaling works and the
completion of the Vilarinho terminal as well as in finding ways to use the outstanding loan funds through
agreements (convênios) with the municipality which could have increased loan disbursement. When they
tried it was too close to the closing date. Moreover, the new CBTU presidency took long to work out the
details of the new decentralization model and even longer to start implementing it due to internal problems.
The underlying argument for the change of the model, rooted in the financial weakening of the State, seems
justified, but the elaboration of the model could have been done more quickly through a management
contract with the State that allowed the payment of a specified decreasing subsidy. Instead, it was decided
to still keep the presence of the Federal government in the decentralized system, arguably more for reasons
of political control than for technical ones. Finally, it has to be mentioned that the CBTU presidency since
2003 has been more sensitive to the regional coordination and integration issues than before but
unfortunately its Technical Directorate was weak and uninspiring in finding ways to overcome work
stoppages by subcontractors.

Considering the good performance of CBTU's PIU, the performance of the Implementation Agency overall
is rated as marginally satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation, given the shortcomings at CBTU decision-making and Federal Government level.
Nevertheless, since the rating scale only allows for satisfactory or unsatisfactory rating, and considering
strong performance of the PIU, the Borrower performance overall is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project. They are summarized below.




                                                     - 21 -

Decentralization: The decentralization of urban rail systems from the Federal to the State or a lower level
of government is desirable because it brings the operator closer to the users, thus allows for the service to
be more responsive to user needs and wishes. The decentralization is also likely to facilitate integration with
other urban transport modes since there will be fewer levels of government that have to agree upon
integration, tariff and subsidy policies. Moreover, in Brazil the Federal Government is not allowed to
concession out urban rail systems to the private sector, while States can do so, thus decentralization opens
a door for this additional possibility.

Despite all these reasons in favor of decentralization, this project showed that the process can be very
lengthy and complicated. Indeed, transferring the system also means losing political power, and receiving it
requires the necessary financial means to operate/subsidize and maintain it. Thus, it is a highly political
process that requires agreements on issues, such as financing and timely management of system
rehabilitation and modernization required by the local authorities, the status of staff and the payment of
salaries, and subsidization. These agreements are not always easy to reach and have a potential to
jeopardize the implementation process if the parties are not committed to it.

Therefore, the main lesson that should be taken from this project is that decentralization should either be a
condition of effectiveness for a rehabilitation and modernization loan, with the respective rights and
obligation of the transferring and receiving parties laid out in a binding way in advance, or it has at least to
be made sure that the State possesses the finances to receive the system and again that all main rights and
obligations are stated in a binding way in advance. This was done in the case of the Fortaleza
decentralization project.

Public Transport Integration: As mentioned before, the bus and metro operators in the BHMR have more
or less regularly met throughout the implementation of the project under the auspices of a commission
operated as a thematic chamber of AMBEL, and the integration of the bus and rail system in Belo
Horizonte has been very successful as far as the municipal area is concerned. The introduction of smart
card-based ticketing, already available on all municipal buses, is only a step away from becoming a reality
also on the metro system.

Regarding integration with the intermunicipal buses under the responsibility of the State, however, the
process is slower, mainly due to the strength of the bus lobby and the absence of a strong champion. This
confirms that even in a "collaborative environment" public transport integration needs strong political
champions that have the courage to take on the fight against bus lobbies to impose the changes necessary to
rationalize the system.

Fight against informal transport. One of the reasons for the success of BHTRANS was the courage of
the mayor's office of Belo Horizonte to prevent and eliminate the proliferation of informal transport. Only
few mayors in Brazil had the courage to do so and, if not handled properly, it normally leads to the quick
deterioration of formal bus operations, the increase of congestion and a rise in the accident numbers.

Resettlement: It is a good idea to build a strong communication program and linkages to affected
communities in order to create a favorable atmosphere for negotiations. In this case, a strong neighborhood
leader was able to win significant enhancements to the project design, largely because of his skillful
management of political relations in the municipality. It is best not to delay releasing information about the
exact dimensions of a resettlement plan. With good communication, the proponent can explain a certain
degree of uncertainty regarding actual displacements to the public. It is more damaging to leave the public
in the dark about whether they will be displaced or not.



                                                     - 22 -

A recommendation from this project is that better follow-up on families that accepted cash compensation
should be carried out to determine whether they were able to restore their previous quality of life and
incomes. It also resulted that assistance to the formation of neighborhood associations is a good idea and it
helps create self-sufficiency for the resettled population, as opposed to their depending on the project
management to solve all their problems for them.

Another lesson is that precautionary inspections of all homes and other structures in the vicinity of
large-scale works should be made to assure that claims made against the project are valid and, where
necessary, to shore up homes that are likely to undergo damage from blasting or the movement of heavy
equipment. Finally, project proponents should be proactive in securing titles for families resettled to
housing projects. Experience has shown that delaying issuance of titles does not retard the process of sales
and the lack of a legal title will simply lower the sales value to the seller and make it more difficult for the
buyer to regularize his/her purchase.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                   CBTU - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
                                            Loan Agreement Nbr. 3916-BR
                                                          Brasil


 Preface

 This is the final report on the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
 implemented with the participation of CBTU - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, the Government
 of the State of Minas Gerais, the Belo Horizonte Mayor Office and the Federal Government of Brazil,
 which was awarded US$ 99 million financing by the IBRD ­ World Bank under a Loan Agreement signed
 on November 30, 1995.

 The Agreement was completed on June 30, 2004, which represented an extension of 30 months on the date
 of completion originally agreed, that is, December 31, 2001.

 The last disbursement was made on June 18, 2004, and US$ 92,123,140.96 out of the resources made
 available by the IBRD have been spent.

 Introduction

 The Federal Government, which is the operator and administrator of the urban rail transport networks in
 the entire country as carried out by CBTU, pursuant to the constitutional precepts that establish that the
 administration and operation of urban transport is to be under the care of the local administration
 authorities, prepared the Metropolitan Rail Transport Decentralization Program designed to implement the
 transferal of such networks to their respective local administrative authorities. The World Bank partly
 financed the Projects for São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Recife, and is financing the
 Projects for Salvador and Fortaleza.

 The Project for Belo Horizonte was submitted to the Executive Board of Directors and was approved in
 its final version on June 29, 1995.




                                                     - 23 -

Project Objectives

On November 30, 1995 the following documents were signed: Loan Agreement LN-3916-BR, between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the IBRD; Project Agreement, between a CBTU and the IBRD; and
Shareholders Agreement, between the Government of the State of Minas Gerais, the Belo Horizonte
Mayor Office and the IBRD. The Loan Agreement signed with the IBRD was for US$ 99 million. By
adding US$ 98,34 million, which represented the counterpart to be disbursed by the Federal Government,
the Project value was a total of US$ 197,34 million to be invested in the expansion of the Belo Horizonte
Metropolitan Rail Network for the implementation of contracts under three major classes: works, goods
and consultant and training services.

The project objectives are as follows: establishing an integrated transport network in the Belo Horizonte
Metropolitan Area in accordance with the guidelines as developed by the committee formed to coordinate
the common policies in respect of fares, regulation, financing and development of Projects for the
transport area; implementing a decentralization of the network operated by CBTU in Belo Horizonte, and
transferring such network from the federal authority to the State of Minas Gerais and the Municipality of
Belo Horizonte; reducing the rates of environmental pollution brought about by combustion motor
vehicles; and improving the quality of life and the conditions of access afforded to the lower income
populations to the employment, health and education centers.

The CBTU-IBRD Belo Horizonte Project was considered to be of foremost importance to enable CBTU
to promote the improvement in urban rail transport with the implementation of its integration to other
modes, thus introducing a substantial improvement of the quality of population mobilization in the urban
area. The model adopted for project implementation was similar to the ones developed for São Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro e Recife.

Experience Acquired in the Implementation and Achieved Results

Project structure was based on three major components:

·       a physical component that involved expanding the           Metropolitan Rail Network with the
incorporation of more than 6.6 km of electrified and signaled double tracks observing the technical
standards, as could be found in the section in operation, but with substantial improvement in operational
conditions, with the implementation terminals for the integration with the bus services, as well as an
improvement in terms of user comfort by introducing escalators and elevators in stations platform access
ways, including the sections already in operation, introducing the automatic ticketing system (integrated
with the bus ticketing system), and by acquiring equipment for the O.C.S., superstructure and workshops
maintenance network;

·       a component of environmental and traffic safety that involved the preparation of a program for the
inspection and servicing of motor vehicles with a view to controlling the emission de polluting elements
and of noise, and included a portion of the investments to improve the road traffic conditions in the Belo
Horizonte Metropolitan Area by implementing the Area Road Traffic Control Network ­ CTA, thus
showing that the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Rail Transport Project was not an isolated Project but that
it resulted in upgraded conditions for the urban population as a whole;

·       a political and institutional development component that offered a set of technical resources to the
new local operators in the areas of administration, finances, operation and expansion of urban transport



                                                   - 24 -

networks that may result in improved network operation, permit integration with the bus services,
substantially improve the economic-financial balance of the various networks with the possible adoption
of an integrated fare network, and increased extra-operational income with the participation of
partnerships with private enterprise institutions.

Institutional actions were implemented by the State and the Municipalities, such as the formation of the
"Trem Metropolitano de Belo Horizonte" company, with the State of Minas Gerais subscribing 55% of
the capital, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte 35%, and the Municipality of Contagem 10%, to
incorporate CBTU's Superintendência de Trens Urbanos de Belo Horizonte. On January 29, 2003,
Delegate Law No. 100 was enacted authorizing the change of the company corporate name to
"Transportes Metropolitanos de Belo Horizonte S/A", and included in the corporate object the
responsibility to administer, regulate and supervise the inter-municipal mass road transport in the Belo
Horizonte Metropolitan Area.

Upon entering into the World Bank loan contract, such contract became effective on April 19, 1996,
institutional model alternatives for the institutional area were studied, considering the idea of partnership
with private enterprise efforts, mass transport network fare structure, and the Metropolitan Area mass rail
transport master plan elaborated, which permitted the signature of contracts for the Belo Horizonte
transport metropolitan plan in progress.

The contemplated deadline for implementation of the Project was five years (1996 to 2001), to be
completed on December 31, 2001. Such deadline has had to be extended by another 30 months, and
completion occurred on June 30, 2004.

The main reason that lead to the extension of the deadline for Project implementation by a further 30
months were as follows:

·       institutional issues resulted in a delay of approximately 5 months between the date set for the
commencement of the services and the effective data of the Loan Agreement;

·       late completion of basic projects and of terms of reference in respect of the four major lots
comprising the civil works for section expansion (São Gabriel ­ Vilarinho), together with a legal
injunction filed during the pre-qualification stages of bidding processes in respect of two of such lots that
led to a one-year delay in the signing of their respective contracts, and the works that should have been
started in the first half of 1996 were started in June 1997;

·       problems with expropriations in one of the lots, the accident with the Heliópolis tunnel and the need
for Project alterations in all lots resulted in the need for added services and deadline extension for the
completion of civil works. Such facts and instances of late payment due to budgetary-financial limitations,
as explained hereinbelow, led to a term of 36 months instead of the 24 months contemplated under the
original contract schedule, and the works could only be completed at the end of May 2000;

·       issues in respect of the international market economic conjuncture had a fundamental impact on
the procurement of global credits, and the Brazilian Government was forced to introduce adjustments in
the releasing of budgetary resources for the implementation of the Project. In view of such budgetary
restrictions CBTU had to review the overall planning for implementation, to make the disbursements
under the contracts compatible with the resources so released. The strategy adopted was that of assigning
priority to the completion of the civil works and the discharging of all commitments already undertaken,



                                                    - 25 -

and the postponement of all procurement activities in respect of the fixed systems (signaling, power and
telecommunications) related services;

·      legal and administrative appeals filed by a bidder during the bidding process stage for the railway
signaling system have delayed in practically one year the beginning of the services, and problems in the
releasing of resources under the budgets for 2003 and 2004 led to the necessity to rework the
implementation schedule. Thus, the completion that was initially contemplated to occur at the same time
as the date of completion of the IBRD financing agreement had to be postponed to the end of 2005, and
the São Gabriel-Vilarinho section is expected come into operation under local control from Vilarinho in
June, 2005;

·      legal problems involving the bidding process for the Vilarinho Terminal resulted in the annulment
of the bidding process and the consequent termination of the contract that had been prepared in respect
thereof. The concept Project for such Terminal is in its final stages and it is contemplated that the bidding
process and implementation mode should observe criteria as defined by the principle of public-private
enterprise partnership (PPP).

Project appraisal criteria as contemplated under the Loan Agreement comprised operational and financial
targets to be met along certain stages of project development. The final target as established had its
implementation dependant amongst other principles on the prior completion of the signaling system and
the integration terminals that should be already in operation. The most relevant completion amongst those
is the one in respect of the Vilarinho Terminal. Pursuant to the information hereinabove the signaling
system and the terminal in question could not be completed within the date of completion of the financing
by the World Bank. It follows that if such aforementioned limitations had not occurred the Belo Horizonte
Metropolitan Rail Transport Network Project would have been completed and ready to meet a demand
figure of 335 thousand passengers/day. As of today's date, the network's weekday average daily passenger
number is 110,000 passengers/day.

An appraisal of the Project in its entirety shows us that the investments made are perfectly compatible
with the originally contemplated technical premises as comprised under the Staff Appraisal Report, and
only the current shortcomings that prevent the increased demand in transport need to be eliminated.

World Bank Participation

This Project added to the partnership between CBTU and the World Bank. From the very beginning of the
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project identification missions and the preparation of the Staff
Appraisal Report the World Bank's degree of interest and desire to cooperate in the implementation of the
Project could be noted.

After signing the Loan Agreement and during the Project implementation stages up to its Completion Date
such interest could be noted in the form of:

·      training efforts, seminars, talks and materials to support CBTU teams and government entities in
decision-making activities;

·      Project supervision missions that followed-up its progress, identifying departures, recommending
corrections, intervening as necessary or cooperating in the quest for solutions and also acknowledging
what was being done right so that the same actions could be adopted as recommended procedures;



                                                   - 26 -

·       timely transfer of financial resources upon legally supported request, which were vital to permit the
discharging of CBTU financial obligations with suppliers and consultants, which definitely affords
tranquility to the administration of any type of Project.

In view of such unfailing support to CBTU as can be verified in affective actions, our appraisal of the
performance by the World Bank can only be highly satisfactory.

Borrower Participation

Pursuant to the World Bank appraisal as comprised under the Staff Appraisal Report, the most significant
risks in respect of the program would be delays in the dialogue between the two government levels for the
effective formation of the Regional Transport Coordination Committee to be set-up to coordinate and
recommend common policies in respect of the setting of fares, regulation, financing and Projects
appraisal; the reluctance in introducing air quality regulatory policies that would be unpopular; possible
delays in the procurement proceedings; the delays in the effective transfer of the operating company to the
local authorities; and the availability of counterpart financial resources. Such risks did materialize in
various degrees of intensity and were described hereinabove.

The studies of causes and consequences of the errors and right actions in respect of this Project are duly
documented and were at times evaluated to exhaustion and accordingly rectified or on occasion avoided,
and the history thereof is in the records so that it will be possible at any time to use them as reference at
least insofar as the Administration of this Company is concerned.

This Project has made it possible to start the reorganization of the management and operation of mass
transport activities in the Metropolitan Area of Belo Horizonte, and for CBTU to approach the agencies in
charge of the various road transport modes in the State and in the Municipalities involved. The result was
that a New Decentralization Model was established.

The New Decentralization Model proposed by CBTU and by the Federal Government contemplates at the
initial stages the formation of local federal companies as decreed by the provisions under Art. 3 of Law
8693/93. Even with controlling capital stock being held at present by the Federal Government, local
government would hold a share of participation in the actions and Board of Directors.

Such structure would be maintained for as long Federal Government continues to supply investment funds
and subsidize the operation. Subsidizing would only cease upon the institution of a fiscal adaptation by
the State that would ensure the quality of the network operation and maintenance, preserving the universal
nature of the users right to travel comfortably in a reliable network at reasonable fares.

The Model encourages the formation of an agency to be in charge of the management of the transport
network by local governments, and the preparation of a management contract that would define the
responsibilities of such agency with goals that would ensure the preservation of transport quality, and the
responsibility of the Federal Government in respect of the supply of the resources as agreed.

There follow the stages as contemplated for the establishment of region distribution under the Model that
is being developed:

·       Signing a new Decentralization Agreement;



                                                    - 27 -

 ·      Forming the local operating company. To begin with the Federal Government controlling capital
 stock shareholding, to be gradually transferred to the States or Municipalities;

 ·      Preparation of a services rendering contract between the operating company and the local agency in
 charge of transport management;

 ·      Preparation of a management contract between the Ministry of Cities and the operating company
 with intervention by CBTU.

 We have observed that upon the enactment of Delegate Law N. 100 that assigned the responsibility for the
 management, establishment of norms and supervision of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Area
 inter-municipal mass road transport to the Transportes Metropolitanos de Belo Horizonte S/A company,
 it has been ensured that the State Government took steps to reestablish the mass transport metropolitan
 management, as the new shareholders are the State and the Municipalities of Belo Horizonte and
 Contagem. Under such arrangement, the Transportes Metropolitanos Company may become the forming
 cell for the development of the metropolitan transport consortium as the management agency for local
 transport networks.

 At the beginning stage in which the Decentralization Agreement is being entered into and the spin-off of
 CBTU Superintendência de Trens Urbanos de Belo Horizonte is effected, and in addition to the Federal
 Government, the State and the Municipalities of Belo Horizonte an Contagem become shareholders, there
 is the beginning of a network under multiple management. The Transportes Metropolitanos (TMBH)
 company is at that stage a company concessionaire of the metropolitan inter-municipal lines and of the
 mass rail passenger transport. The Metrô System will be a sub-concessionaire thereof, the same as the bus
 operating companies. Networks financial integration will be through Clearing Chambers.

 At a second stage the transformation of the TMBH into a public consortium will be implemented after
 the enactment of a law by the National Congress, thus promoting the admission of other metropolitan
 Municipalities. In its capacity as a government company of public law the consortium will assume the
 status of public power in charge of assigning inter-municipal and even municipal lines pursuant to the
 provisions under the metropolitan pact.

 The implementation of this Project, and all other decentralization projects implemented by CBTU, will
 certainly serve as a reference for the modeling of future projects.


 Flávio Mota Monteiro
 CBTU/IBRD Project Coordinator

                                                           Approved
                                                  João Luiz da Silva Dias
                                                  President of CBTU

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 28 -

10. Additional Information

Resettlement
The resettlement for this project required complex negotiations with the affected communities in order to be
completed.      A total of some 548 families had to be displaced to make way for the metro system and
stations. Additionally, some 27 commercial establishments were displaced. Of these, only 60 families had
legal title to the land on which their homes were built. Another 38 families were renters. The resettlement
plan was well designed with alternatives offered to families that lived along the offset of the rail line. There
were some problems in completing the plan because CBTU was delayed in releasing the final design of the
rail line and stations, which caused delays in the completion and the implementation of the resettlement
plan. This may have been the consequence of excessive caution on CBTU's part because it did not want to
create false expectations on the part of families whose homes may not need to be moved. In hindsight, it
would appear that the uncertainty that the affected families experienced was more damaging to the project
than if CBTU had simply admitted that it was uncertain whether or not the project would affect certain
homes.

During the construction period some families in middle-class areas complained that cracks had developed in
the walls of their homes due to blasting and the movement of heavy equipment. Contractors visited these
homes and, where necessary, made repairs.

The resettlement design called for cash compensation for any family that preferred this option. Renters
were provided with a cash allowance equivalent to six-months of rent and assistance with finding new
housing. The owners of rental homes received cash compensation for their property losses according to
their assessed value. The compensation scheme provided for a subsidy above the level of the assessed value
of property and improvements inversely related to the value of the assets. Under Brazilian law, occupants
who lack legal title to their lots may not be compensated for land but may be compensated for the
improvements on that land. Families with total assets below a specific floor were entitled to a minimum
cash compensation that included a heavy subsidy component to assure that they would be able to purchase
a new home elsewhere.

Most of the very poor families, however, preferred to accept the alternative of resettlement in a housing
project that was built in the Arco Iris neighborhood. In some cases families that had migrated to Belo
Horizonte from rural areas used their cash compensation to return to their original homes in their home
towns. Many affected families resided in a neighborhood known as Primeiro de Maio which consisted
mainly of very low quality housing all of which constituted an informal neighborhood with no legally titled
owners. The entire neighborhood was required by a station site for the rail system as well as works for the
Belo Horizonte sanitation project, PROSAM. A local priest became the chief spokesperson for the families
in Primeiro de Maio and he demanded a quality of housing that went well beyond the standard usually
provided in such cases. The result was a standard home of 45m2 of built space on a 150m2 lot (the original
design called for a 35m2 house on a 100m2 lot). The new housing project brought together families
displaced by both the Metro and PROSAM projects involving some 350 homes on a hillside site that
provided many amenities to the resettlers. Of these families, some 548 were displaced by metro
construction, of which 141 opted for resettlement in a housing project, while 407 preferred cash
compensation.

Surveys conducted after resettlement in the housing project in 1998 indicated a very high level of
satisfaction with the quality of the housing and the convenience of the site which was only a few hundred
meters away from the Primeiro de Maio neighborhood, close to a Metro station, schools and other social
services, and far superior in quality to the housing that most of these families had previously occupied. To



                                                    - 29 -

date, none of the families resettled in the housing project has received title to the property, apparently
because the land on which the homes were built itself is not yet fully regularized.

With the assistance of the Metro and PROSAM social workers, a neighborhood organization was formed
and it tackled a number of social problems that arose. In general, it can be concluded that resettlement for
the Belo Horizonte Metro project resulted in a substantial improvement in the quality of life for the families
that accepted housing. These families were, generally speaking, the poorest and most vulnerable of the
families who were displaced. There does not appear to have been a systematic ex-post survey of families
that opted for cash payments. However, most of these were middle-class families for whom moving into a
housing project was regarded as a humiliating loss of status. It is fairly certain, however, that these families
were able to find new housing fairly easily in the large and dynamic housing market of Belo Horizonte and
it is very likely that the move had little or no effect on the incomes of the affected families. In the housing
development, many families that had run small businesses from their homes were able to resume their
activities in the new neighborhood and the project team made it possible for them to do so.




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Decentralization of the system              1. Decentralization according to model         1. First step with joint management and
                                               proposed by the Federal Government             operational autonomy
2. Construction and full operation of the line 2. Construction and full operation of the line 2. New link ready but signalling incomplete
extension from Sta. Inês to Vilarinho (Via     extension from Sta. Inês to Vilarinho (Via
Norte)                                         Norte)
3. Improved Accesibility and level-of-service  3. Improved Accesibility and level-of-service  3. Improved Accesibility and level-of-service
for low income classes                         for low income classes                         for low income classes achieved
4. Private Sector Participation in system      4. Moderate Private participation in the       4. Moderate Private participation in the
                                               system                                         system
5. Substantial integration with buses          5. Integration in most stations with buses     5. Integration in most stations with buses


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1) Million passengers/year                     1) 2002 revised end of project target: 34      1) 28.76 million (conservative estimate based
                                               million                                        on the fact that there were 14.38 million
                                                                                              passenger by June 30, 2004
2) Staff Cost as % of Total Revenue            2) 2002 revised end of project target: 100     2) 115.8


3) Revenue Cost Coverage                       3) 2002 revised end of project target: 54      3) 45.1
4) Working Ratio                               4) 2002 revised end of project target: 2.12    4) 2.57

1End of project
Note 1: This project was prepared using the SAR format that did not include the log frame matrix.




                                                                  - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Land Expropriation                                        4.60          14.83           322.35
2. Civil Works                                              54.23          47.54            86.66
3. Permanent Way                                            31.30          60.56           193.48
4. Systems                                                  11.05            9.99           90.41
5. Rolling Stock                                            21.47          27.14           126.41
6. Goods                                                    30.72          32.21           104.85
7. Consultant Services                                      12.44          14.82           119.13

Total Baseline Cost                                        165.81         207.09
 Physical Contingencies                                     16.58
 Price Contingencies                                        14.95
                        Total Project Costs                197.34         207.09
                  Total Financing Required                 197.34         207.09


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                         128.77            17.44         0.00         28.39        174.60
                                 (75.13)          (10.72)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (85.85)
2. Goods                          7.96              0.12         0.00         0.00          8.08
                                  (6.60)           (0.10)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.70)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        14.66         0.00         14.66
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.45)         (0.00)       (6.45)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         136.73            17.56        14.66         28.39        197.34
                                 (81.73)          (10.82)      (6.45)         (0.00)      (99.00)




                                                - 32 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                111.23              3.40              0.00             45.44            160.07
                                           (69.19)            (1.86)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (71.05)
   2. Goods                                 22.65              9.56              0.00             0.00             32.21
                                           (10.56)            (5.64)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (16.20)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             14.21             0.61             14.82
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.87)            (0.00)           (4.87)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                              133.88             12.96             14.21             46.05            207.10
                                           (79.75)            (7.50)            (4.87)            (0.00)           (92.12)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Land Expropriation           0.00         4.60         0.00        0.00         14.83      0.00        0.0     322.4      0.0
2. Civil Works                 31.02        23.21         0.00       27.32         20.22      0.00       88.1      87.1      0.0
3. Permanent Way               18.06        13.24         0.00       39.42         21.14      0.00       218.3    159.7      0.0
4. Systems                      7.29         3.76         0.00        4.31         5.68       0.00       59.1     151.1      0.0
5. Rolling Stock                0.86        20.61         0.00        0.00         27.14      0.00        0.0     131.7      0.0
6. Goods                       20.77         9.95         0.00       16.20         16.02      0.00       78.0     161.0      0.0
7. Consultant Services          5.47         6.97         0.00        4.88         9.94       0.00       89.2     142.6      0.0
Price Contingencies             7.19         7.77                                                         0.0      0.0
Physical Contingencies          8.35         8.23                                                         0.0      0.0
Total Project Cost             99.00        98.34         0.00       92.12        114.97      0.00       93.1     116.9      0.0




                                                           - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-post cost benefit analysis for this project uses the same methodology, assumptions and
values for unit costs as indicated in the 1995 SAR (annex 9).

The following scenarios have been considered:
Best Case:
Full benefits start in 2005, growth at 4%/year, investment costs US$ 136,600,000
Base Case:
Full benefits start in 2005, growth at 2%/year, investment costs US$ 143,700,000
Worst Case:
Full benefits start in 2005, growth at 0.5%/year, investment costs US$ 153,700,000

                Best Case                          Base Case                   Worst Case
            EIRR       NPV@       B/C      EIRR     NPV@10     B/C     EIRR      NPV@      B/C
             (%)        10%                 (%)        %                (%)       10%
Eldorado-    19.1    66,229,000   1.66      17.1   48,907,000  1.48     15.3   35,479,000  1.34
Vilarinho




                                                - 34 -

This shows that in the Base Case the project investment overall yields an EIRR of 17.1% and a
NPV of US$ 48,907,000.

                          TOTAL BENEFITS (US$ THOUSANDS)
                            DIRECT                                       EXTERNALITIES
                            BENEFITS
 Project Calendar    Travel  Operating   Road        Bus    Invest.   Accident   Air
  year      year      Time     Cost    Maintenanc   System which will Savings  Pollution
                     Savings  Savings    e Cost      Cost  be avoided          Savings
                                         Savings   Savings
   1       1995                                                                            0
   2       1996                                             14000                       14,000
   3       1997                                             14000                       14,000
   4       1998                                              7000                        7,000
   5       1999                                              3500                        3,500
   6       2000        0         0         0          0                  0        0        0
   7       2001        0         0         0          0                  0        0        0
   8       2002        0         0         0          0                  0        0        0
   9       2003        0         0         0          0                  0        0        0
   10      2004      18,704   12,255      55         980                 0      617     32,611
   11      2005      19,078   12,500      56        1,000               351     629     33,615
   12      2006      19,460   12,750      57        1,020               358     642     34,287
   13      2007      19,849   13,005      58        1,040               365     655     34,973
   14      2008      20,246   13,265      60        1,061               372     668     35,672
   15      2009      20,651   13,531      61        1,082               380     681     36,386
   16      2010      21,064   13,801      62        1,104               388     695     37,113
   17      2011      21,485   14,077      63        1,126               395     709     37,856
   18      2012      21,915   14,359      64        1,149               403     723     38,613
   19      2013      22,353   14,646      66        1,172               411     737     39,385
   20      2014      22,800   14,939      67        1,195               419     752     40,173
   21      2015      23,256   15,238      68        1,219               428     767     40,976
   22      2016      23,721   15,542      70        1,243               436     783     41,796
   23      2017      24,196   15,853      71        1,268               445     798     42,631
   24      2018      24,680   16,170      73        1,294               454     814     43,484
   25      2019      25,173   16,494      74        1,319               463     830     44,354




                                               - 35 -

                            TOTAL COSTS (US$ THOUSANDS)
Project    Calendar  Investments            Operating             Total Costs
year        year       Costs                 Costs                   (C)
                                 Wages &              Maintenance
                                  Salaries               Cost
  1        1995          0           0         0          0           0
  2        1996        10,698        0         0          0        10,698
  3        1997        10,406        0         0          0        10,406
  4        1998        36,791        0         0          0        36,791
  5        1999        14,917        0         0          0        14,917
  6        2000        45,480        0         0          0        45,480
  7        2001        10,000        0         0          0        10,000
  8        2002        7,399         0         0          0         7,399
  9        2003        8,000         0         0          0         8,000
 10        2004          0        1,529      2,268       422        4,219
 11        2005          0        1,560      2,313       430        4,303
 12        2006          0        1,591      2,360       439        4,389
 13        2007          0        1,623      2,407       448        4,477
 14        2008          0        1,655      2,455       457        4,567
 15        2009          0        1,688      2,504       466        4,658
 16        2010          0        1,722      2,554       475        4,751
 17        2011          0        1,756      2,605       485        4,846
 18        2012          0        1,791      2,657       494        4,943
 19        2013          0        1,827      2,710       504        5,042
 20        2014          0        1,864      2,765       514        5,143
 21        2015          0        1,901      2,820       525        5,246
 22        2016          0        1,939      2,876       535        5,351
 23        2017          0        1,978      2,934       546        5,458
 24        2018          0        2,017      2,993       557        5,567
 25        2019       (20,266)    2,058      3,052       568      (14,587)




                                  - 36 -

              BENEFITS MINUS COSTS (US$ THOUSANDS)
                                 (B - C)
Project year  Calendar year Total Benefits (B) Total Costs (C) Benefits minus
                                                                Costs (B - C)
     1           1995               0                0               0
     2           1996            14,000           10,698           3,302
     3           1997            14,000           10,406           3,594
     4           1998             7,000           36,791         (29,791)
     5           1999             3,500           14,917         (11,417)
     6           2000               0             45,480         (45,480)
     7           2001               0             10,000         (10,000)
     8           2002               0              7,399          (7,399)
     9           2003               0              8,000          (8,000)
    10           2004            32,611            4,219          28,392
    11           2005            33,615            4,303          29,311
    12           2006            34,287            4,389          29,897
    13           2007            34,973            4,477          30,495
    14           2008            35,672            4,567          31,105
    15           2009            36,386            4,658          31,727
    16           2010            37,113            4,751          32,362
    17           2011            37,856            4,846          33,009
    18           2012            38,613            4,943          33,669
    19           2013            39,385            5,042          34,343
    20           2014            40,173            5,143          35,030
    21           2015            40,976            5,246          35,730
    22           2016            41,796            5,351          36,445
    23           2017            42,631            5,458          37,174
    24           2018            43,484            5,567          37,917
    25           2019            44,354          (14,587)         58,941
                                                  EIRR =           17.1




                                  - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1994             3    SENIOR TRANSPORT
                                             PLANNER (2); SENIOR
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              March 1995                9    SENIOR TRANSPORT
                                             PLANNER (2); SENIOR
                                             RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); METRO
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             SENIOR LEGAL COUNCIL
                                             (2); TRANSPORT
                                             DEMAND SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              08/01/1995                2    RESETTLEMENT SPECIALST           HS             HS
                                             (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                                             PLANNER (1)
              11/30/1995                1    SR. TRANSPORT PLANNER            S               S
                                             (1)
              03/01/1996                3    SR. ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);          S               S
                                             SR. TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              10/11/1996                1    PRIN TRANS SPECIALIST (1)        U               S
              03/07/1997                2    TRANSPORT PLANNING (1);          U               S
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIS
                                             (1)
              07/16/1997                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              10/08/1997                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              11/21/1997                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIS
                                             (1)
              02/20/1998                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             RESTTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/07/1998                3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             INFRSTRUCTURE ENGINEER
                                             (1); TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1)
              12/03/1998                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)



                                              - 38 -

               02/10/1999              2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            RAIWAYS SPECIALIST (1)
               06/12/1999              2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            STATION SPECIALIST (1)
               06/12/1999              2    PR. TRANSPORT SPECIALI            S    S
                                            (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                                            CONSULT (1)
               06/12/1999              1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)          S    S
               06/12/1999              2    PR. TRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S    S
                                            (1); CIL WORKS CONS. (1)
               10/29/2000              1    PRINCIPAL TRANSPORT SP            U    S
                                            (1)
               03/21/2001              2    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            S    S
                                            (1); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               08/14/2001              2    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            S    S
                                            (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                                            SPECILA (1)
               03/14/2002              1    TSK. MGR. AND TRA. SPE (1)        S    S
               05/23/2002              3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            TRANSPORT PLANNER (1);
                                            SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1)
               12/30/2002              1    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            U    S
                                            (1)
               06/27/2003              2    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            S    S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1)
               06/27/2003              2    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            S    S
                                            (1); SECTOR LEADER (1)
               10/28/2003              1    LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL            S    S
                                            (1)
               02/06/2004              1    LEAD TRANSPORT SPEC (1)           S    S

 ICR
               06/26/2004             3     LEAD TRANSP.                      S    S
                                            SPECIALIS (1);
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SIGNALLING CONS.
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            37.7                           97.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   2.8                          34.1
  Supervision                           63.8                         423.0
  ICR                                     5.5                        27.24
  Total                                109.8                        582.14




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project documents, such as the Staff Appraisal Report, the Legal Agreements, Project Supervision
Reports, project reports, aide-memoires and other documentation related to this project are on file.




                                                - 42 -

- 43 -

