Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14265-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE?METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
JUNE 5, 1995
Environment and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais (R$)
US$1 =.83 to .90 R$ (March 15-31, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABNT          -   Brazilian Association for Technical Standards
(Associacao Brasileira de Normas Tecnicas)
AGLURB        -   Urban Conglomerate Program (Programa de Alglomerados Urbanos)
AMBEL         -   Metropolitan Assembly of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
(Assembleia Metropolitana da Regiao Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte)
ATC           -   Automatic Train Control
BHMR         -    Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
BHTRANS      -    Belo Horizonte Municipality Transport and Transit Company
(Empresa de Transporte e TrSnsito de Belo Horizonte)
BNDES        -    National Economic and Social Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
CBD          -    Central Business District
CBTU         -    Brazilian Urban Train Company
(Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CCTV         -    Close Circuit Television
CEMIG        -    Electric Company of Minas Gerais
(Companhia de Electricidade de Minas Gerais)
CIF          -    Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNG          -    Compressed Natural Gas
CO           -    Carbon Monoxide
COFIEX       -    External Financing Commission (Comissao de Financiamento Externan
CPTM         -    Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos
CTC          -    Centralized Traffic Control
DEMETRO      -    Popular name of the Belo Horizonte Train Subdivision of CBTU
DER-MG       -    Minas Gerais State Roads Directorate
(Dire,ao de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais)
DETRAN-MG    -    Minas Gerais State Traffic Administration
(Departamento de Transito do Estado de Minas Gerais)
DIEESE       -    Social and Employment Statistics Directorate of the State of Sao Paulo
EA           -    Environmental Assessment
EBTU         -    Brazilian Urban Transport Company
(Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos)
EMU          -    Electric Multiple Unit
FEAM         -    State Foundation for the Environment
(Funda,cao Estadual do Meio Ambiente)
FEPASA       -    Sao Paulo State Railroad
(Ferrovias Paulista S.A.)
GEIPOT       -    National Transport Planning Agency
(Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes)



GPPI         -    Permanent Integrated Planning Group
(Grupo Permanente de Planejamento Integrado)
HC           -    Hydrocarbons
IBGE         -    Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
(Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica)
ICB          -    International Competitive Bidding
ICMS         -    Circulation Tax on Goods and Services
(Imposto de Circulacao sobre Mercadorias e Servicos)
IERR         -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
I/M          -    Inspection and Maintenance System
LRT          -    Light Rail Transport
LUCI         -    Land Use Change Indicator
KV           -    Kilovolt
MB           -    Municipality of Betim
MBH          -    Municipality of Belo Horizonte
MC           -    Municipality of Contagem
MDU          -    Urban Development Ministry
(Minist&rio de Desenvolvimento Urbano)
MG           -    Minas Gerais
MR           -    Metropolitan Region
MT           -    Ministry of Transport
NATM         -    New Austrian Tunnelling Method
NCB          -    National Competitive Bidding
NOx          -    Nitrogen Oxide
PAR          -    Performance Audit Report
PCR          -    Project Completion Report
PIU          -    Project Implementation Unit
PM10         -    Particulate Matter less than 10 microns in diameter
PMIC         -    Project Management and Implementation Consultant
PMTI         -    Integrated Metropolitan Transport Plan
(Plano Metropolitano de Transporte Integrado)
PMU          -    Project Management Unit
ppm          -    Parts per million
PROPAV       -    Pavement Program in Low-income Areas
(Programa de Pavimentacio de Baixo Custo em Areas de Baixa Renda)
RTCC         -    Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SEAIN        -    State Secretariat for Foreign Affairs
SITURB       -    Integrated Urban Transport System
(Sistema Integrado de Transporte Urbano)
SMA          -    Secretariat for the Environment
(Secretaria do Melo Ambiente)
SMG          -    State of Minas Gerais
SMMA         -    Municipal Secretary for the Environment
(Secretaria Municipal do Meio Ambiente)
SOx          -    Sulfur Oxide
STU-BH       -    Belo Horizonte Subdivision of CBTU
TRENSURB     -    Porto Alegre Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit
(Trens Urbanos de Porto Alegre)
VOC          -    Volatile Organic Compound



I



BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................ i
I. URBAN TRANSPORT IN THE BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN REGION.                     1
A. Background.                                                              1
B. Urban Transport in the BHMR: An Overview .1
C. Institutional Responsibilities for Urban Transport in the BHMR.          2
D. Key Sectoral Issues.                                                     4
E. Lessons from Experience in the Sector.                                   5
F. The Bank's Strategy for the BHMR.                                        6
II. THE PROJECT..                                                                 8
A. Project Background..                                                     8
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                          8
C. Project Objectives..                                                     8
D. Project Description .................     .                              8
E. Project Cost and Financing . ....................................... 10
F. Project Benefits and Risks . ......................................... 11
G. Tariff Setting and Affordability by Low-Income Users ........ .. ............ 13
H. Project Economic Evaluation  .................. ..................... 13
I. Project Financial Evaluation .......... .............................. 14
J. Environmental Impact of the Project ....... ........................... 15
K. Private Sector Participation  ........................................ 1 9
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........................................... 20
A. Institutional Responsibilities  .................. ..................... 20
B. Contractual Arrangements .   ....................................... 20
C. Implementation Schedule  ......................................... 20
D. Implementation Arrangements  ..................   .................... 21
E. Decentralization Process . ......................................... 21
F. Procurement .................................................. 22
G. Disbursement and Special Account  ................   .................  24
H. Auditing .................................................... 25
I. Monitoring and Reporting . ......................................... 25
J. Project Supervision . ............................................. 26
IV. PROJECT AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................ 27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during March 1995. The mission comprised
Messrs. Jorge Rebelo (Task Manager and Sr. Transport Planner, LA 1 EU), Jose Baigorria (Sr. Railway Engineer, LA 1 IN), Moazzam
Mekan (Financial Analyst, LA11N), Daniel Gross (Resettlement Specialist, LAlEU), and Kenneth Knight (Metro Infrastructure
Consultant). Messrs. Jose Carvalho (Sr. Counsel, LEGLA), Roberto Laver (Sr. Counsel, LEGLA), Gerhard Menckhoff (Sr. Transport
Planner, LA1 EU) and Wagner C. Martins (Transport Demand Specialist) also participated in the preparation of the project. Mr.
John Flora (TWUTD) was the Peer Reviewer. Mr. Craig Leisher edited the report and Ms. Marcella Schiappacasse helped prepare
the report. Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes and Gobind T. Nankani are respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects
Adviser and Department Director for the operation.



ANNEXES:
1.     Bank Assistance to the Urban Transport Sector in Brazil and Lessons Learned ... .... 30
2.     Project Coordination and Executing Agencies  ............................. 38
3.     Regional Transport Coordination Commission  .............................          41
4.     Private Sector Participation in the Project ................................ 45
5.     Infrastructure and Equipment Component ................................ 46
6.     Environmental and Safety Component .................................. 52
7.     Institutional Development and Policy Studies  ............................. 55
8.     Detailed Project Costs, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ....     ........ 59
9.     Economic Evaluation  .............................................. 65
10.    Financial Evaluation  .............................................. 80
11.    Project Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision Plan  ... ... 92
12.    Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region: Urban Transport Characteristics ....  ......... 102
13.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File ........................... 106
MAP:
IBRD No. 26914



- I -
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Federative Republic of Brazil.
Implementing       Brazilian Urban Trains Company (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, CBTU).
Agency:
Beneficiaries:     Residents of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region, particularly low-income households
who are major users of public transport.
Poverty:           Not applicable.
Amount:            US$99 million equivalent (including up to US$9.9 million in retroactive financing).
Terms:             Repayment in 1 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable rate, with a grace period of five
years and loan amortization based on level repayments of principal.
Commitment Fee:    0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:   Not applicable.
Financing Plan:    See para 2.13.
Rate of Return:    31 percent for the infrastructure and equipment component which represents 98 percent
of the total cost of the project.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 14265-BR, dated June 5, 1995.
Map:               IBRD No. 26914
Project ID:        BRPA6564






I. URBAN TRANSPORT IN THE BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN REGION
A. Background
1.1          This project has its origins in two major developments at the Federal and State level:
(a) the decision of the Government of Brazil (GOB) to decentralize and transfer several subdivisions of
the Brazilian Urban Train Company (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, CBTU) from the Federal
to the State/Municipal Governments as mandated by the 1 988 Constitution; (b) the willingness of the
State of Minas Gerais (SMG) and the Municipality of Belo Horizonte (MBH) to takeover the Belo
Horizonte subdivision of the CBTU (STU-BH) and better integrate it with the privately-owned bus
transport system. GOB started by decentralizing the two largest CBTU subdivisions (S3o Paulo and Rio
de Janeiro) and once that was successfully accomplished, it decided to proceed with the
decentralization of the Belo Horizonte and Recife subdivisions.
1.2          As in the case of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the GOB requested assistance from the
Bank to help in completing the STU-BH network and effectively integrating it with the other modes.
The SMG and MBH agreed to takeover the system as long as the GOB would extend the system to
Vilarinho and Sao Paulo stations (see map) and build the accesses to facilitate integration at the
system's main stations. The identification mission took place in early 1 994, and based on its findings,
the Bank agreed to proceed with the evaluation of the project provided the SMG and MBH would
incorporate in its urban transport strategy the following two elements: (a) an effective coordination
between the state and municipal governments of the BHMR; and (b) a formal financing mechanisms
considered crucial to create an enabling environment for the long-term financial sustainability of the
Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region's urban transport systems. SMG and MBH moved swiftly and
diligently to include these elements in its strategy.
B. Urban Transport in the BHMR: An Overview
1.3          Background: The Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region (BHMR), with 5,850 sq. km, has
3.5 million inhabitants spread unevenly over 18 municipalities which are dominated by the Municipality
of Belo Horizonte with 2.1 million inhabitants. Annual population growth of the BHMR and MBH
averaged 2.6 percent and 1.3 percent respectively in the last five years. The BHMR generates roughly
51 percent of the GDP of the State of Minas Gerais and is considered the third most important
economic region of the country. Each day, 3.2 million person trips take place in the BHMR of which
68.0 percent are by bus (all privately operated), 25.0 percent by private automobile, 1 .7 percent by
rail (CBTU's Belo Horizonte subdivision popularly known as DEMETRO) and the remaining 5.3 percent
by other modes (mainly bicycle and walking).
1.4          The road network is radial and all its main corridors intersect the beltway around the
BHMR. Bus routes penetrate to the BH neighborhoods and adjoining municipalities through ten main
corridors of which the most heavily travelled are Amazonas Avenue (9 km), Ant6nio Carlos Avenue
(7.2 km), and Cristiano Machado Avenue (12.5 km). Only the latter has a reserved bus lane. The
commercial speed of the buses in the segregated busways is around 25 km/hr but drops to 9 km/hr
in the central business district. At peak period, most highway corridors are clogged with bumper to
bumper buses. Bus services are generally of low speed, unreliable and infrequent at peak hours due
to the congestion. Although they are privately operated, the municipal bus routes are allocated on the
basis of competitive bidding and regulated by the Empresa de Transporte e Transito de Belo Horizonte
(BHTRANS), a municipal agency; the intermunicipal bus services, also privately operated, are managed
by the Minas Gerais State Roads Directorate (DER-MG). Tariffs are set by those agencies and there are
no subsidies paid to bus operators.
1.5          The STU-BH (DEMETRO) system consists of a single line of 16.1 km, inaugurated in
1 986, which parallels the main east-west highway and presently serves about 50,000 passengers/day,



- 2 -
instead of the 250,000 originally planned. One of the main reasons for this very low ridership is its
short length since the originally planned network was never completed due to budget problems.
Despite the fact that most of the systems, rolling stock, and equipment for the completion of the line
were already acquired through bilateral funding, the permanent way and the stations were not
completed because the Federal Government ran out of funds. As it stands today, the DEMETRO line
is not useful to alleviate the heavy traffic congestion in the BHMR and, instead, it is a financial burden
to the GOB which must contribute US$15 million/year to keep it afloat, since its revenues cover only
23 percent of the operating costs without depreciation.
1.6          At present, the DEMETRO is integrated with 74 bus lines in only one terminal (Eldorado)
which generates about 60 percent of its demand at an integrated tariff. CBTU estimates that with an
additional extension of only 6.5 km (S5o Paulo to Vilarinho), more frequent services, construction of
four stations, two intermodal integration terminals and a number of pedestrian crosswalks, demand
would increase substantially. For passengers who have their origins and destinations within walking
distance of the stations, the DEMETRO offers the most comfortable and reliable mode of transport.
However, if the origins and destinations are beyond a reasonable walking distance, the lack of good
integration, and the lack of stations at important demand generation centers, makes the use of the
system awkward and more expensive. This lack of integration between DEMETRO and buses
discourages more rail trips and encourages bus and automobile usage, thereby increasing the heavy
congestion during peak hours and significantly increasing home-to-work trip time. In its program to
decentralize the responsibility of operation of its metropolitan systems from the Federal Government
to the State and Municipal Governments, CBTU is proposing to extend the line by 6.5 km and provide
the most important stations with the appropriate transfer terminals and access, which would allow
effective modal integration, decrease the number of bus trips per day, and improve personal mobility
in the BHMR. Finally, since traffic congestion is growing at 20 percent per year and the number of
accidents grew by 30 percent from 1991 to 1994 (with 8.2 deaths/10,000 vehicles), BHMR needs
to modernize its traffic engineering and control equipment and introduce traffic safety measures to
cope with the growing number of road-based vehicles.
1.7          The low-income households (56 percent earn less than four minimum salaries, i.e., less
than US$400/month) are the main users of public transport and bear the brunt of its problems: (a)
shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded (> 1 2 pass/m2), often unsafe conditions;
(b) long work journeys (2.5 hours/day) from the metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, often with
more than two modal transfers; and (c) paying over a fifth of their income in fares. Until recently the
lack of coordination among the three levels of government responsible for urban transport, particularly
between the SMG and the MBH, has led to poor tariff and modal integration, lack of prioritization in
urban transport investments, and no common policy on pricing and subsidies. Fortunately, the recent
establishment of a Metropolitan Council (Assembleia Metropolitana) which has a Transport
Commission, is a major step towards ensuring coordination between the several agencies and modal
policies.
C. Institutional Responsibilities for Urban Transport in the BHMR
1.8          There are four government bodies responsible for overseeing the urban transport sector
in the BHMR: (a) the State Roads Directorate (Direcao de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas
Gerais, DER-MG), which regulates all the intermunicipal bus services and road network of the region;
(b) the Belo Horizonte Transport and Transit Company (Empresa de Transporte e Transito de Belo
Horizonte, BHTRANS) which is the agency that regulates municipal bus services and is also responsible
for traffic management and control in the MBH; and (c) the Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
(CBTU) which through its Belo Horizonte subdivision (STU-BH), known as DEMETRO, operates the
metropolitan train, presently under Federal Government jurisdiction.



-3 -
1.9         In 1993 the State established the BHMR Metropolitan Council (Assembleia
Metropolitana da RegiIo Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte, AMBEL). AMBEL's functions are, among
others, to foster the integration of metropolitan services, to oversee the metropolitan bodies, to
approve the Metropolitan Master Plan and supervise its implementation, to approve the multi-year
investment plans for the BHMR and its budget guidelines, to establish the guidelines for the tariff
policies on metropolitan public services including transport, and to administer the Metropolitan
Development Fund. AMBEL has a number of Sectoral Technical Committees, amongst which there are
the Intermunicipal Transport and Road Committee, the Land Use Committee, and Water Resources and
Environment Committee. Unfortunately, so far the only task performed by the Intermunicipal Transport
Committee is to discuss the increases in metropolitan bus tariffs. Nevertheless, AMBEL provides the
basic institutional framework required to create a Regional Transport Coordination Commission.
1.10         Both BHTRANS and DER-MG have a clearing house (Camara de Compensaciao) for bus
tariffs, and they pay bus services according to a standard cost formula which they approve. This way,
they compensate bus companies which operate with tariffs below the estimated cost of the formula.
BHTRANS' clearing house had a surplus of US$12 million in 1 994. Of these funds, BHTRANS transfers
1 0 percent to DER-MG whose clearing house has a deficit.
1.11         Since three levels of government have been formulating policies and regulating urban
transport without a formal coordinating arrangement, there has been a lack of consistency in the fares
charged by similar or competing modes, duplication of investments, absence of criteria to prioritize
investments, and only an embryonic modal integration system. This has led to bus services continuing
to operate in corridors where the DEMETRO operates, expensive and time-consuming disagreements
on whether to build a light rail transport, the lack of promotion of hub and spoke services, disparate
subsidy policies which are often based on non-economic considerations, and the absence of user
representation in the urban transport decision-making process. Recently, there has been a very fruitful
cooperation between BHTRANS, DER-MG and STU-BH. The creation of a Regional Transportation
Coordination Commission (RTCC) would ensure that this cooperation would not depend on the political
parties in power.
1.1 2        In summary, although the extent and quality of urban transport coordination and
planning vary among the different regions, all are faced with a similar problem: how to plan and
manage a transport system in a metropolitan region consisting of many municipalities, each with its
own administrative powers, when the necessary inputs for, and effects of, this transport system
extend well beyond the administrative boundaries of any one municipality. One solution would be to
create a region-wide transport coordinating and regulatory agency, which sometimes requires a state
law. In some Brazilian metropolitan regions, adaptations of this type of institution already exist and,
in others, plans (or, in some cases, draft laws) exist to create them. The examples provided by the
Madrid, Toronto, San Francisco and Washington metropolitan regions, which have some type of
coordinating entity, should be studied and adapted for the specific institutional constraints of the
BHMR. It is clear that one of the most urgent issues to be addressed in Brazilian urban transport is its
sector organization at the three levels of government.
1.13         The lack of a coordinating entity with a unified approach to cost-recovery policies and
the lack of effective oversight by the State and the Municipality, have resulted in the poor definition
of priorities in the BHMR, limited modal and tariff integration, and operating agencies which have no
pre-set operational and financial targets. As required by the proposed project, SMG, MBH, the
Municipality of Betim and the Municipality of Contagem signed a convenio to create a Permanent
Integrated Planning Group (GPPI) which will function as a precursor of the RTCC. A formal RTCC will
be established prior to the transfer of STU-BH to the state.



- 4 -
D. Key Sectoral Issues
1.14         A number of key issues must be addressed to in order to improve the supply of urban
transport services in the BHMR and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the
long term. They are: la) capacity and safety issues; (b) institutional issues; (c) cost recovery and
financial management issues; (d) targeting of subsidies; (e) environmental issues; and (f) transport
planning issues.
1.1 5        Capacity and Safety Issues. The most important concern is the need to increase the
supply of adequate cost-efficient peak-hour capacity in order to guarantee an acceptable level of
service to the average commuter under reasonable safety conditions. This can be done by: (a)
rehabilitating and restructuring existing systems and by building new ones which are justified from a
technical, economic and, especially, financial standpoint. Rail and bus rapid transit offer the best
alternatives in this respect; (b) improving traffic management through appropriate traffic engineering
equipment in order to better manage available road space and reduce congestion; and (c) reducing
accidents through transit safety education campaigns, law enforcement, and traffic engineering. The
STU-BH extension to Vilarinho and the traffic management and control program address these issues.
1.16         Institutional Issues. The most critical institutional issues are: (a) the fine-tuning of
relations between state and municipal governments and a clear definition of their respective roles in
the financing, planning and operation of urban transport services in accordance with the 1988
Constitution; (b) the creation of a regional coordination entity empowered by the BHMR for planning,
coordinating and setting priorities for new investments and modal integration; and (c) the appropriate
modification of regulations, including the elimination of regulatory barriers which might prevent free
entry and/or competition in the market for provision of public transport services. The project addresses
these issues by requiring the establishment of a RTCC for the BHMR.
1.17         Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The need to address cost recovery
from a more commercially oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which, when added to subsidies,
cover at least the long-run variable costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation of
equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided; (b) controlling fare evasion; (c) setting
appropriate peak and off-peak pricing; (d) improving the financial management of the systems through
wide-ranging cost cutting measures, staff rationalization policies, and by appointing more financial
managers to run the mass transit systems; and Ce) revamping funding mechanisms in order to
guarantee adequate financing for the implementation of new mass transit systems and the
sustainability of the existing systems. The proposed project addresses these issues by the Institutional
Development and Policy component.
1.18         Targeting of Subsidies. Any remaining blanket subsidies paid to operators ought to be
eliminated. Urban households have been devoting increasingly large proportions of their incomes to
transport. Further, transport-related expenditures have become a considerable burden on local
government budgets. The appropriate targeting of urban transport subsidies and their extension to the
informal sector which is not presently covered by mechanisms such as the vale-transporte is a major
issue which must be addressed in the short term. C'Vale-transporte' is a mechanism by which
employers are required to provide their employees with a wage subsidy that covers any amount above
6 percent whenever the total costs of monthly "home to work' trips exceed 6 percent of their
salaries.) Appropriate mechanisms for financing such subsidies (tariff differentiation, contractual
budgetary transfers, etc.) and channelling them to target groups through tokens, multi-modal passes,
and differential tariffs need to be designed. The financing mechanisms and the cost and tariff studies
proposed in the Institutional Development component address these issues.



-5 -
1.19         Environmental Issues. Air pollution, noise, traffic congestion, and road accidents are
major environmental issues to be addressed in the BHMR. The reduction of the environmental impacts
of urban transport, traffic congestion, and noise pollution in the urban area could be done through:
(a) the allocation of responsibilities across government levels for the enforcement of existing laws and
definition of tougher standards; (b) the use of cleaner and quieter transport systems; (c) where
appropriate, the use of non-motorized transport; (d) the improvement of traffic management and
control; and (e) the strengthening of traffic safety education and the enforcement of the traffic
regulations. In the long run, assessment of the potential role of market-based incentives to address
pollution and the implementation of the polluter pay principle to minimize the fiscal burden implied by
de facto government subsidies to polluters ought to be considered. The proposed project starts
addressing these issues by requiring the design of an inspection/maintenance program for motor
vehicles.
1.20         Transport Planning Issues. The need to strengthen BHMR's transportation planning,
traffic data base, traffic management, and evaluation of new investments could be met if there is a
formal coordinating agency for urban transport in the metropolitan region. This agency should be
equipped with a battery of sketch planning, demand and supply models that would test different land
use, air quality, and urban transport scenarios. Furthermore, an integrated land use, urban transport,
and air quality strategy should be designed and periodically revised. As part of the proposed project,
the Institutional Development component includes provisions for the preparation of an Integrated Land
Use, Urban Transport and Air Quality strategy and the updating of BHMR's Master Plan.
1.21         In the future, urban transport policies in the BHMR would be geared toward the efficient
and equitable provision of urban transport services, in particular for low-income groups which have
traditionally received less attention. Policies would be consistent with broad transport sector objectives,
as well as with the objectives of the urban subsector. In accordance with the 1 988 Constitution, the
policies would support the decentralization of urban transport services from the Federal Government
to the States to facilitate modal and tariff integration and respond quickly to local needs. The policies
would simultaneously address the need for institutional coordination and an integrated urban transport,
land use, and environmental strategy. The general approach is to restore the incentives which exist
when privately-owned systems operate under competitive conditions. Re-designed regulations and
concessionary agreements, and improved bidding processes will promote competition in the provision
of bus services. Rates would be liberalized in the corridors where there is effective competition. Urban
and metropolitan train operations would be decentralized through the reorganization of CBTU and the
gradual transfer of the operation and ownership of the systems to newly-created commuter train
companies, managed either directly by the state and/or local governments or by private interests
operating under concessionary arrangements. Appropriate tariffs and financing mechanisms would
enable the efficient operation and development of the systems. Local governments would continue to
be responsible for traffic regulation and management but would improve their capacity to manage the
demand for road use, improve traffic management and street maintenance, protect the environment,
monitor the effects of regulations and taxation, promote integration of the various transport systems,
and coordination with land-use development.
E. Lessons from Experience in the Sector
1.22         Initial Bank support for the urban transport sector in Brazil was provided through four
urban transport projects totalling US$540 million, of which the First, Second and Third Urban Transport
Projects (Loans 1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1965-BR) have been completed. The Fourth Urban Transport
Project which continued the work started in the Third project was canceled because the government
abolished the federal agency in charge of urban transport (EBTU). Additional urban transport projects
financed by the Bank (Loans 3457-BR and 3633-BR for US$126 million and US$128 million
respectively) support the rehabilitation and decentralization of the CBTU from the federal to the state



- 6 -
government in S3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Loan 3457-BR (Sao Paulo) became effective on February
3, 1993. This loan includes an institutional and policy development component which was utilized in
the preparation of the presently proposed project. Loan 3633-BR (Rio de Janeiro) was signed on
October 14, 1993 and became effective on March 14, 1994.
1.23         To build upon the experience of past urban transport projects for the design of the
proposed project, an analysis of "lessons learned" was undertaken (Annex 1). The review was based
on Project Completion Reports and Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PAR) in urban transport and urban
development worldwide. Recognition was made of trends and changes in project design since the
PCRs/PARs were completed. The main lessons identified and incorporated in the design of the
proposed project are:
(a)   Institutional Strengthening. The organizations dealing with urban transport at
the federal, state and municipal levels should be reorganized and strengthened.
Studies included in the institutional component must be carefully monitored
and translated in action plans which the Borrower must implement;
(b)   Lack of counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of project
implementation and in some cases has led to cancellation of components. An
effort must be made to ensure that adequate provision of counterpart funds are
included in the annual budgets of federal and state enterprises;
(c)   Slow implementation has been a frequently occurring theme. The reasons have
included: lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, over-optimistic scheduling
at appraisal, lack of final engineering designs at appraisal, changes in political
commitment, and lack of counterpart funds. These problems would be
mitigated in the proposed project by such measures as: strengthening capacity
of operating agencies for financial management and application of Bank
procedures; and requiring final engineering design of the first year's works, for
which technical assistance should be contracted if need be with retroactive
financing; and
(d)   Weak institutional capacity for the planning, design and implementation of
traffic and highway projects has been a common feature of many projects. In
the proposed project, all agencies have demonstrated adequate capacity to
carry out the required planning, design and implementation functions.
F. The Bank's Strategy for the BHMR
1.24         Subsector strategy. In view of the issues stated above, the Bank's strategy will be
aimed at: In the short term: (a) assisting the state and municipal governments in formulating and
implementing an urban transport policy consistent with the above goals; (b) strengthening the
institutional framework and the decision-making process in the sector through adequate coordination
between the two levels of government and proper technical, economic and especially, financial
evaluation of projects and their prioritization by a regional coordination agency; (c) supporting a
program to decentralize, rehabilitate and extend existing services such as metro lines and busways,
which can more readily increase their efficiency and peak-hour capacity; (d) managing the demand for
road use through improved traffic management and road-user taxes, in order to reduce existing
congestion and the demand for travel by private single-occupancy automobiles; (e) decreasing the
number of fatalities and accidents due to urban transport; (f) introducing better cost-recovery
mechanisms including adequate cost-based peak-hour tariffs and fare evasion control in order to
strengthen their financial base; and (g) improving the targeting of subsidies to those who need them.



-7-
In the medium term, the Bank's strategy will focus on promoting a more efficient and financially
sustainable market-oriented supply of public transport services, through: (a) an appropriate reform of
regulations which will facilitate market entry, fare deregulation and public bidding in route allocation;
(b) promoting service differentiation especially in the bus systems; (c) defining eligibility requirements
and strengthening funding mechanisms for urban transport to cover operating deficits (based on pre-
agreed targets in contract-plans) and finance major investments; (d) supporting the evaluation and, if
justified, the introduction of new investments such as reserved busways and light rail transport; (e)
reducing the environmental impacts of urban transport by setting standards for air quality, noise
pollution, and visual intrusion along with indicating who would pay for them and how; (f) assisting in
projects which improve the data base required for appropriate planning such as origin/destination
surveys and preparation of master plans which study land use and urban transport alternatives; and
(g) creating an enabling environment to increase private sector participation in the investment and
operations of urban transport systems. In the long term, the Bank's strategy will aim at reducing the
travel demand and increasing the effectiveness of transport facilities by integrating land use and
transport planning based on significant input or management by locally affected parties.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
2.1          As mentioned in section 1, this project has its origins in two major developments at the
Federal and State level: (a) the decision of the Government of Brazil to decentralize and transfer the
several subdivisions of the Brazilian Urban Train Company (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos,
CBTU) from the Federal to the State/Municipal Governments as mandated by the 1 988 Constitution;
(b) the willingness of the State of Minas Gerais and the municipality of Belo Horizonte to takeover the
Belo Horizonte subdivision of the CBTU (STU-BH) to better integrate it with the predominantly public
bus transport system. The GOB started by decentralizing the two largest CBTU subdivisions (S3o Paulo
and Rio de Janeiro), and once that was successfully accomplished, it decided to proceed with the
decentralization of the Belo Horizonte and Recife subdivisions.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2          The Bank's country assistance strategy for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 29,
1 993, is to support policies and investments that will encourage economic growth and social
development in a context of macroeconomic stability. The emphasis is on efficient resource allocation,
increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems
to the poor. The proposed project is fully consistent with this assistance strategy since it is designed
to: (a) promote reforms and financial viability of public enterprises, including decentralization from
federal to state and municipal levels; (b) foster private sector participation in the development of new
infrastructure and its operation; (c) increase the efficiency of infrastructure investments; (d) contribute
to poverty alleviation; and (e) reduce Government subsidies through improved tariff policies and
financial management. The proposed project is also a follow-up to the efforts started with the Sao
Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-BR) and the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3633-BR) which are decentralizing the federally-
owned CBTU to the States of S3o Paulo and Rio to allow for more effective modal and tariff
integration.
C. Project Objectives
2.3          The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) the development of an integrated urban
transport system for the BHMR under a Regional Transportation Coordination Commission (RTCC)
established to coordinate and recommend common policies on pricing, regulation, financing, project
evaluation and selection; (b) the completion and decentralization of the STU-BH from the federal to the
state and municipal levels; (c) the reduction of the environmental (mainly air quality and noise) impacts
on the BHMR due to motor vehicles and the promotion of non-motorized transport modes; and (d) the
development of special strategies and actions to improve the accessibility of the low-income population
to employment centers, health and education facilities.
D. Project Description
2.4          The project would consist of three inter-related components: (a) an Infrastructure and
Equipment component (98 percent of total project cost) to help build: (i) the rail extension of the STU-
BH and the additional stations required to enhance modal integration; (ii) the transfer terminals and
physical accesses required for the actual integration between buses, rail, pedestrians, automobiles and
bicycles; and (iii) a centralized road traffic signal control system to improve traffic control at some 250
intersections; (b) an Environmental and Traffic Safety component (0.2 percent of total project cost)
to support: (i) the design of an inspection and maintenance (I/M) program for vehicle emissions and



-9 -
noise; and (ii) a traffic management and safety program; and (c) an Institutional and Policy
Development component (1.8 percent of total project cost) to help in: (i) creating the RTCC for the
BHMR; (ii) preparing an integrated Transport Policy, Land Use, and Air Quality Management strategy
for the BHMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery,
tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies; (iii) implementing a cost-based financial management system in
the STU-BH; (iv) developing an enabling environment and financial instruments for more substantial
participation of the private sector in the investment and operation of the operating agencies; and (v)
strengthening air-quality planning and monitoring of vehicle-based emissions.
Part A - Infrastructure and Equipment Component
2.5   This component is designed to improve the infrastructure and equipment of STU-BH to a level
which will allow it to meet the operational and financial targets set for the proposed project (Annex
11) and are summarized below.
2.6          The Civil Works Program would consist of: (a) intermodal integration works which
would include: (i) construction of three integrated bus-to-rail terminals; (ii) improvements to road
accesses to STU-BH stations; (iii) construction of sidewalks and pedestrian over/underpasses; and (iv)
provision of a centralized traffic signal control system and bus locator; (b) passenger stations works
for the construction of nine new stations and enlargement/improvements of S3o Paulo station; (c)
bridges, road viaducts, and pedestrian over/underpasses, which would include the construction of four
bridges, two road viaducts, and six over/underpasses for pedestrians; and (d} the construction of a
building for STU-BH administration.
2.7          The Permanent Way Program would include: (a) provision of track materials for a 5 km
line from Santa Ines to Sao Paulo; and (b) construction of a 6.5-km line extension from Sao Paulo to
Vilarinho (Map IBRD 26914), including the construction of a 225 m tunnel for which detailed geological
studies have already been completed.
2.8          The Systems Program would consist of: (a) electrification, including the installation of
7 km of overhead catenary, 7 km of transmission cables, one sub-station and one sectionalizing cabin;
(b) signaling, consisting of: (i) the replacement of the existing Central Traffic Control (CTC) from
Eldorado to Sao Paulo; lii) the installation of vital interlocking relay circuits in the 5-km section from
Santa Ines to Sao Paulo with materials and equipment in stock; and (iii) supply and installation of a new
signaling system in the 6.5-km extension; and (c) telecommunications, including the provision of a
central station, an integrated telecommunication system on the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho extension, and
ticketing control equipment in all 20 stations.
2.9          The Workshop Program includes the provision of miscellaneous equipment for the new
Matadouro workshop, and of equipment for general maintenance of the permanent way and systems.
The Rolling Stock program would consist of: (a) the general overhaul of five existing electrical multiple
units (EMUs); and (b) the acquisition of ten new EMUs.
Part B - Environmental and Traffic Safety Program
2.10         The environmental and traffic safety program will consist of: (a) the design of an
inspection and maintenance (Il/M) program for vehicle emissions and noise; and (b) the development
of a traffic management and safety program.



- 10-
Part C - Institutional Development and Policy
2.1 1        CBTU's decentralization is not by itself a guarantee that the individual subdivisions will
be better managed than its predecessors. A package of institutional and policy reforms are needed to
induce modernization changes and motivate management and staff. The financial management and
administration, especially in regard to cost-recovery mechanisms must also be reformed. Otherwise,
the cycle for another emergency program of rehabilitation will repeat itself with negative impacts on
the ridership and on the metropolitan region as a whole. Furthermore, actions are needed to change
the environment in which CBTU operates in order to facilitate the modal integration and sustainability
desired in the long term. The basic sub-components of the institutional and policy package proposed
are described in detail in Annex 7 and are summarized below:
(a)    Decentralization. The first set of Actions Plans concerns the actual
decentralization process: (i) institutional and organizational arrangements; (ii)
patrimonial agreement on the valuation and assets to transferred; (iii) aspects
relating to transfer of personnel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human
resource-related issues; and (iv) legal and administrative aspects for
decentralization;
(b)   Management. The second set of Action Plans are designed to improve the
management of the STU-BH subdivision: (i) preparation and implementation of
a manpower development plan to streamline the management and operations
staff of the STU-BH that would propose concise job descriptions and staff it
accordingly; (ii) study and implementing of cost accounting, management
information systems, and financial management so that timely and adequate
cost management is possible; (iii) preparation of an action plan to improve
inventory management since lack of spares is one of the main causes for the
low rolling stock availability rates; (iv) preparation of an action plan to
subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector;
(v) preparation of an action plan to increase non-operating revenues by renting
station space, advertising, and development of the STU-BH's real estate; and
(vi) technical assistance and training for staff at all levels as proposed in the
manpower development plan.
(c)   Modal Integration. The objective of the third set of Action Plans is to support
the policy framework and provide practical recommendations for implementing
modal integration. This will include studies of existing transport agencies with
a view to reducing intermodal inefficiencies, namely: (i) a financing mechanism
study focused on achieving formal sources of funds for the urban transport
sector, including a tariff study focused on achieving multi-modal tariff
integration and its operationalization; (ii) updating of the Transport, Land Use,
and Air Quality portion of the Master Plans of the BHMR with emphasis on
route rationalization and modal and tariff integration; and (iii) a BHTRANS/DER-
MG route management and rationalization study.
E. Project Cost and Financing
2.12         The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$197.3 million including physical
and price contingencies, with an estimated foreign component of US$98.8 million or about 50 percent
of total cost. Taxes and duties are expected to account for about 13.5 percent of total costs or
US$26.7 million equivalent. Physical contingencies add up to US$16.6 million, or 10 percent of the
base cost, and price contingencies are estimated at US$15.0 million or 8.2 percent of the base cost



- 11 -
plus physical contingencies. The contingencies were estimated on the basis of the disbursement
schedule (an estimated implementation period of six years), and on the following forecast of price
escalation for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 1.5 percent in 1 995, 1.8
percent in 1996, 2.6 percent in 1997, 2.5 percent in 1998, 2.5 percent in 1999, 2.5 percent in 2000
and 2.5 percent in 2001. Base costs correspond to March 1995 prices. The costs of goods are based
upon supplier quotations for similar Brazilian-made items and recent prices of imported items. The cost
of several components of the works program such as, permanent way, two new stations, and the
administrative building are based upon detailed engineer designs and prevailing unit prices; the cost
of other components of the works program are based upon preliminary engineering designs and
prevailing unit prices from recent tenders under loans 3457-BR and 3633-BR. Final engineering designs
for the remaining components under the project are underway. Cost estimates for consultant services
are based upon prevailing local and foreign staff-months rate; they provide for the cost of local
transportation, office equipment and other minor items and, where appropriate, international travel and
per diem.
2.13         The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$99.0 million (50
percent of the project cost) and GOB contributions of about US$98.4 million equivalent, including
US$26.69 million in taxes and duties (50 percent of the project cost). During loan negotiations,
agreement was be reached on: (a) the project financing plan; and (b) the guarantee of the GOB
regarding all necessary counterpart funds for the project.
F. Project Benefits and Risks
2.14         Project Benefits. Quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from the
provision of an integrated rail and bus network including cost savings, time savings for the users, fewer
accidents and fatalities and employment generation through better spatial integration of markets.
Important effects on the urban structure are expected if the STU-BH network becomes an axis fed by
the major bus routes. In addition, there will be a positive environmental impact through the reduction
of fossil fuel consumption, reduction of motor-vehicle related emissions, and a reduction in road
congestion, with a consequent improvement in air quality and noise pollution. The project will facilitate
access to employment and services, particularly for the poor. Development of an integrated public
transport system under a regional coordination body in charge of combining state and municipal pricing
and subsidy policies, prioritizing major investments and proposing common demand management
measures in the BHMR, are also important non-quantifiable benefits. Finally, by encouraging greater
private sector participation in the development of aerial and ground station space, the proposed project
will be a first step towards decreasing the investment burden on the state.
2.15         Project Risks. The main risks involved are the delays in the dialogue between the two
levels of government for the actual start of operations of the RTCC, the political reluctance to
introduce regulatory and air quality related policies which are politically unpopular, the possible delays
in the procurement process, the delays in the actual transfer of STU-BH to the local authorities, and
the timely availability of counterpart funds. Negotiations among the Federal, State and Municipal
Governments have progressed very well for modal and tariff coordination and a forerunner of the RTCC
has already been established. All parties have agreed on the need for an integrated project and the risks
are more associated with their reluctance to relinquish some of the powers they have to the RTCC. At
this stage, there is strong commitment to the environmental and safety program from the governments
involved. The delays in the procurement process were minimized by starting at pre-appraisal the pre-
qualification for lots in the critical path of project implementation, by the use of standard bidding
documents, and by requiring the borrower to produce the major tender documents by negotiations. The
timely availability of counterpart funds will be addressed by seeking assurances that they are included
in GOB's CY95 budget and future budgets projections.



- 1 2-
Table 2.1: STU-BH Project Cost Estimates and Bank Financing
(US$ million)
Breakdown of cost       Base cost        Bank Participation
STU-BH PROJECT          Local  Foreign Excl. Duties Duties  Total  Value  %
1 - LAND EXPROPRIATION           4.60   --          4.05   0.55   4.60    0.00   0
2 - CIVIL WORKS                 32.77   21.46      47.72   6.51  54.23   31.02   65
2.1 - Modal Integration         7.35    7.77      13.31  1.82   15.13    8.65   65
* Integrated Terminals       1.30    0.70       1.76   0.24   2.00    1.14   65
* Road Accesses              4.13    2.23       5.60   0.76   6.36    3.64   65
- Traffic Engineering       0.49    0.26       0.66   0.09   0.75    0.43   65
- Road Accesses             3.65     1.96      4.94   0.67   5.61    3.21   65
Pedestrian Accesses         0.37    0.20       0.50  0.07    0.57    0.32   65
Road Traffic Control        1.55    4.65       5.46  0.74    6.20    3.55   65
- Traffic Lights Control    1.25    3.75       4.40   0.60   5.00    2.86   65
- Bus Control               0.30    0.90        1.06  0.14   1.20    0.69   65
2.2 - Stations                 12.35    6.65      16.72  2.28   19.00   10.87   65
2.3- Bridges and Pedestrian O/P  11.64  6.27      15.75  2.15   17.90   10.24   65
2.4 - Administrative Building   1.43    0.77       1.94  0.26    2.20    1.26   65
3 - PERMANENT WAY               20.35    10.96     27.54   3.76  31.30    18.06  66
3.1 - Infrastructure           19.21   10.34      26.00  3.55   29.55   16.90   65
3.2 - Superstructure            1.14    0.61       1.54  0.21    1.75    1.16   75
4- SYSTEMS                       6.75    4.30       9.72   1.33  11.05    7.29   75
4.1 - Electnfication            1.53    0.83       2.08  0.28    2.36    1.56   75
* Catenary                   0.56    0.30       0.76   0.10   0.86    0.57   75
. Substations                0.98    0.53       1.32   0.18   1.50    0.99   75
4.2- Signaling                  4.57    3.05       6.71  0.91   7.62     5.03   75
4.3 - Telecommunications        0.64    0.43       0.94  0.13    1.07    0.71   75
5- ROLLING STOCK                 4.29    17.18     17.90   3.57  21.47    0.86    5
5.1 - Revision of EMUs          0.30    1.20       1.32  0.18    1.50    0.86   65
5.2 - Assembling of EMUs        3.99   15.98      16.58  3.39   19.97    0.00   0
6-GOODS                          6.19   24.53      25.49   5.22  30.72   20.77   81
6.1 - Equipment for Stations    0.32    0.74       0.88  0.18    1.06    0.88  100
6.2 - Materials for Permanent Way  2.19  8.76      9.09  1.86   10.95    6.82   75
6.3 - Materials for Catenary    1.03    2.41       2.86  0.58    3.44    2.14   75
6.4 - Materials for Substations  0.03   0.07       0.08  0.02    0.10    0.06   75
6.5 - Materials for Signaling   0.76    4.32       4.22  0.86    5.08    3.16   75
6.6 - Materials for Telecom.    0.48    2.73       2.67  0.55    3.22    2.00   75
6.7 - Equipment for Workshops   1.37    5.50       5.70  1.17    6.87    5.70  100
7 - CONSULTANT                   7.92    4.52      10.95   1.49  12.44    5.47   50
7.1 - Studies and Projects      1.47    0.79       1.99  0.27    2.26    0.99   50
7.2- Institutional Development  1.97    1.31       2.89  0.39    3.28    1.44   50
7.3 - Project Management        1.43    0.77       1.94  0.26    2.20    0.97   50
7.4- Supervision                3.06    1.65       4.14  0.56    4.70    2.07   50
BASE COSTS             82.86    82.94     143.37  22.43  165.80  83.46
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES        8.29     8.29     14.34   2.24  16.58     8.35
PRICE CONTINGENCIES          7.39    7.57      12.96  2.00   14.96    7.19
TOTAL                98.54   98.80     170.66  26.68  197.34  99.00



- 13 -
G. Tariff Setting and Affordability by Low-income Users
2.16                Poverty, Affordability and Subsidies. The growing crisis in urban transportation
in Brazil, especially in the MRs, demands a close look at alternatives for financing services in a more
predictable and sustainable way while, at the same time, targeting subsidies more directly to low-
income ridership. The various initiatives already underway within CBTU to improve efficiency through
tariff increases, service improvements, and trip reliability, as well as efforts focused on reducing
operating costs, are planned to continue.
2.1 7        Approximately 56 percent of the urban population earns less than four minimum salaries
(US$400/month). If successfully implemented, the project will primarily benefit the poor in the
participating cities, since they depend mainly on bus, metro and suburban rail services to commute to
and from work, especially those living in the favelas for whom access to the areas of employment is
a daily ordeal.
2.18         To make urban transport affordable to the poor, it is necessary to strengthen and
expand the eligibility of the vale-transporte program to low-income residents which are not formally
employed, to substantially promote integrated (bus-rail) fares, which should be always lower than the
sum of individual modal fares, and to increase the overall level of service provided to the users. This
will result in lower travel times due to higher frequencies and operating speeds, reduction of waiting
time, much higher reliability and safety, bringing down therefore, the overall generalized (tariff, time
and safety) transport cost to the user and thus alleviating the burden that urban transportation imposes
on low-income households. It is noteworthy that annual bus and train passenger surveys indicate even
low-income riders are willing to pay higher tariffs if the service provided is faster, waiting times are
less, and the system is more reliable.
2.19          Review of Financing Mechanisms. In conclusion, it was agreed that efforts should be
focused on seeking a solution(s) that would: (a) generate sufficient resources to maintain stable and
predictable funding for urban transport investments; (b) establish mechanisms to generate adequate
operating cross-subsidies from within transport related taxes, user charges, etc., to provide adequate
support for normalization (operating deficits) transfers; and (c) contract with an independent consultant
to provide a structured leadership to a Tariff and Financial Policy study, to conduct discussions at the
federal, state and local levels, and to help in drafting the appropriate legislation to implement such
policy reforms at the national level.
2.20         In the meantime, agreement was reached at negotiations so that: (a) prior to the
transfer of STU-BH to the State, the GOB will meet the cost of capital investments plus debt service
(interest and amortization) of the STU-BH, incurred before the transfer; (b) during the period prior to
the transfer, the GOB will cover the difference between the working costs and operating revenues of
STU-BH; (c) and that after the transfer is effected, the GOB operating subsidy (shortfall between
operating revenues and working expenses) will be discontinued.
H. Project Economic Evaluation
2.21         A standard cost-benefit analysis was performed to evaluate the economic impact of the
implementation of the proposed Investment and Equipment program, which together represent 98
percent of the total proposed project. Direct user benefits include travel time and operating costs
savings; indirect benefits arise from the reduction of negative externalities such as accident and air
pollution costs. Investments which will be avoided due to the implementation of the proposed project
are also considered as benefits. Investment costs comprise civil works, land expropriation, operational
systems, rolling stock and project studies.



- 14 -
2.22         Substantial direct benefits are expected to arise from travel time savings, operating cost
savings, bus system control savings, and road maintenance cost savings. Travel time savings result
mainly from the transfer of bus passengers into the modernized system and from existing STU-BH
passengers who can save time in their trips by taking advantage of the new transport facility. Travel
time savings also result from the increased operating speeds and shorter trips of the buses and cars
which will be feeding the rail system. Operating cost savings for the non-rail modes derive principally
from the improved commercial and traffic speeds, which can be achieved by buses and cars,
respectively. In addition, indirect benefits will arise from the reduction in negative externalities, such
as accidents and air pollution.
2.23   The IERRs obtained in the economic evaluation are summarized in the Table 2.2. The
sensitivity analysis on traffic forecasts, increased investment costs, deferral of benefits, etc., produced
acceptable results which ranged from 14.2 percent (case in which the incremental traffic was 50
percent lower than estimated) to 32.3 percent (case in which the value of time savings is 10 percent
higher). A more detailed description of the economic evaluation is given in Annex 9.
Table 2.2: Economic Evaluation
Corridors                                  IERR (%)
Base Case           Worst Case         Best Case
Sao Paulo - Vilarinho            31                  14.2              32.3
I. Project Financial Evaluation
2.24         STU-BH. STU-BH's sources and uses of funds for operations shows that internally
generated funds are low and fixed personnel costs are high. During 1 990-94, the cost recovery from
internally generated funds varied between 6-1 5 percent. Besides low tariffs, the main reason for low
revenues is a lack of ridership due to the short length of the network. In 1 994, the actual ridership was
one-fifth of what the system was designed to carry had it been fully completed; the length of the
system is less than one-third of the original network used for that forecast. It is no surprise, therefore,
that the personnel cost accounted for three-forth of the total working costs!' in that year and the
resulting working ratio"' was a humble 6.87.
2.25          Upon completion of the new capital projects, the length of the network would be
expanded by 67 percent and the traffic is expected to grow seven-fold during 1 994-2001. This
increase in traffic is expected to result from a longer network, shorter headways, more intensive
operations, and a higher number of integrated stations which will be fed by redesigned bus routes. A
combination of higher demand, increases and changes in the tariff structure, and less than proportional
increase in costs is expected to result in a revenue cost coverage of 100 percent (a working ratio of
1.05) in 2001. In addition to the measures outlined above, about 5 percent of the operating income
is expected to come from advertisement and rental of properties. Consequently, the system is expected
to be free from public subsidy for its normal operations starting in 2001. Performance targets to
monitor STU-BH's financial situation during the project are given below.
1 /    Operating costs exclusive of depreciation and interest.
2/     Ratio of Working Costs to Operating Income. A low number is desirable.



- 15 -
Table 2.3: Performance Targets for STU
Target              1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
Total number of passengers carried  35   38     41     44     48     105    106
per year (millions of linked trips)
Staff costs as a % of total revenue  142%  134%  156%  160%  161%   69%     69%
Revenue Cost Coverage            50%    51%    42%    43%    44%    100%   101%
Working Ratio                    2.00   1.98   2.43   2.39   2.39    1.05   1.04
2.26         State of Minas Gerais. Sound fiscal and financial management over the last several
years places the State of Minas Gerais in a relatively stable financial condition, despite recession and
macroeconomic difficulties at the national level. The State relies on own sources (ICMS and other
taxes) for about 71 percent of its total current receipts. As of the end of 1 993, current revenues were
US$3.4 billion, comprised of: US$2.4 billion own-source tax revenues and US$790 million (23
percent) from federal government transfers. On the expenditure side, 1993 current expenses were
about 66 percent of all expenditures (current and capital including amortization), with personnel costs
accounting for 36 percent. The remaining 37 percent went towards capital expenditures including
amortization payments of US$514 million (11 percent). In 1993, personnel expenditures amounted to
63 percent of the net current revenue (current revenue less contractual transfers) compared to a
constitutional limit of 65 percent.
2.27         In response to increasing amortization and interest payments which in 1992 topped
US$1.1 billion, the State has severely curtailed new borrowing. Net borrowing which became negative
in 1991 continued being so for three straight year and the 1993 debt service of US$767 million was
about 31 percent lower than that of 1992. The state successfully rescheduled its long-term contractual
debt obligations in 1 994 (contractual debt is about 65 percent of total debt) in order to lower the
annual debt service burden.
2.28         Current low cost recovery of STU-BH will oblige the State to make operational subsidies
of an average US$19 million between 1996-2000 with the maximum subsidy of US$26 million in
2000. With the extended network operational in 2001, STU-BH is not expected to rely on any public
subsidy for its normal operations except for the replacement of assets. Nonetheless, even with the
expected level of subsidy until 2000, the total State transfers will increase only by 2.5 percent. In
comparison to the current surplus, the increase in transfers would account to about 6 percent of the
current account surplus (US$432 million) in 1993. The State is also expected to compensate STU-BH
US$3-4 million for carrying gratuitos (free riders). This compensation should, however, not be
considered a subsidy as it is sales of services by STU-BH to the government.
J. Environmental Impact of the Project
2.29         Since the main objective of the proposed project is to increase the capacity offered by
the BHMR rail system, it is expected that a substantial percentage of the passengers now carried by
bus will return to their original mode of transportation, that is, rail. This is especially true for
passengers who live within walking distance from the stations, who switched to bus because in the
last five years the capacity and safety offered by the trains decreased considerably. However, it is not
so obvious for those passengers who are not within walking distance. Nevertheless, theoretically it is
estimated that by project completion about 316 fewer buses/day will be required in the streets of the
BHMR, because integration with the metro system will shorten bus trips. The main expected positive
environmental impacts stem from this reduction in bus services, given their present negative impact



- 16 -
on the air quality, noise levels, traffic congestion, and road accidents. As discussed below, other
positive impacts include the effect of the rail system rehabilitation on passenger safety at the stations,
on the land use around the right-of-way, and the decrease of fatal accidents resulting from lack of
fencing along the right-of-way.
2.30         The impact on air quality is due to a reduction of emission by the buses which will be
removed from circulation or which will have their route-kms shortened because they will be operating
feeder services for the rail system rather than duplicating their routes. The impact on air quality was
conservatively estimated at US$1.2 million per year in BHMR. A positive impact on noise levels is also
due to the removal of buses, especially in Belo Horizonte, where the older vehicles predominantly
owned by the private sector are noisy and when bunched together, cause very high decibel (dB) levels,
which hardly allow people to speak at normal voice levels on the street. The impact on traffic
congestion was estimated at US$37.0 million per year in Belo Horizonte and is mainly due to the
shorter waiting time for commuters using their automobiles and buses. The effect on road accidents
is based on statistics which suggest that, in the metropolitan region, the number of bus accidents is
a function of the number of buses on the road. It is conservatively estimated that the savings due to
fewer accidents are US$0.7 million per year in Belo Horizonte. In addition, the fencing of the right-of-
way is expected to decrease the number of fatal accidents due to people crossing the tracks. Even if
the benefits estimated were cut in half because the bus operators would, in some cases, continue to
run the buses at lower load factors, the project would contribute positively to the environment.
Benefits which were not quantified are those related to the improved living environment which will
result from safer and cleaner stations, crossovers from the sidewalks to the stations, space for queuing
up at the wickets, ramps for the handicapped, and in some cases, modal integration with taxis, buses
and private automobiles. Other non-quantified benefits are those related to the structuring effect of
a revamped rail system which will attract housing in the surrounding areas. Furthermore, real estate
development on the air space above the stations and on land owned by CBTU is also expected.
Additional non-quantified benefits relate to the diminished stress which the road system and congestion
will impart on the road users and the better ambience expected in trains. Shorter trip times and faster
home-to-work trips will also have a positive effect on the rail users' welfare.
Jl. Environmental Impact of the Construction
2.31         The proposed extension of the system would have only limited negative environmental
impacts. Most materials used will not affect the environment; the contractors will be responsible for
proper disposal of old materials; the earthworks are mainly in CBTU's existing right-of-way. Concrete
ties will be used. The visual impact of the stations will be enhanced with appropriate architectural
designs which will blend with the environment, and the same will be done with the overhead catenary,
wherever possible. Assurances will be sought that the project will be executed, and the system
subsequently operated in accordance with Bank guidelines and good environmental practices.
2.32         An environmental impact assessment of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link undertaken by
independent consultants is required by Brazilian law. A preliminary analysis following Bank guidelines
was provided during the Bank mission in March 1 995 and has subsequently been reviewed and
approved by the Bank. During pre-appraisal, the following were made available: (a) a typology of the
affected population and of proposed solutions; (b) the institutional matrix, which supports the
expropriation process, specifying for each activity the responsibilities of CBTU's various units as well
as those of other agencies and the relationship of social and environmental management within the
overall project coordination arrangements; (c) a chronogram of all activities pertaining to expropriation
and related activities to be carried out by CBTU or other agencies, including consultations with the
affected population and the possibilities of delays in beginning of construction if compensation offered
to the affected population were to be rejected; and (d) a budget estimate and sources of funds required
for expropriation and other related activities.



- 17 -
2.33         The terms of reference for preparing the final engineering designs for future stations
and proposed terminals require that existing environmental (noise and visual intrusion) conditions be
reviewed and that the final designs include specific measures for alleviating conditions where they fail
to meet existing or proposed standards. In addition, an environmental assessment will be required on
all proposals for new works, indicating any adverse environmental consequences and proposing
measures to eliminate them or at least reduce their impact to acceptable levels. These assessments
and proposals will relate principally to vehicle emissions, vehicle noise, and visual intrusion.
2.34         To ensure that environmental impacts are properly evaluated and adequate mitigating
measures are proposed, CBTU's Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would hire a firm of experienced
professionals in resettlement as well as have environmental specialists in charge of reviewing and
monitoring all phases of project preparation and implementation. CBTU has accumulated considerable
experience with land expropriation during the construction of the existing line. More specifically, these
divisions would: (a) ensure that terms of reference (TOR) for feasibility studies include a preliminary
environmental impact evaluation or screening of the proposed solutions; (b) review the feasibility
studies and determine, according to good environmental practices, whether a specific and detailed
environmental impact assessment and development of mitigation measures, such as a relocation plan,
are required; (c) hire consultants to carry out appropriate analyses and propose mitigation measures;
(d) in the latter case, seek the Bank's approval for the proposed measures; (e) include the proposed
measures in the TOR for final engineering design, review the final engineering design from an
environmental standpoint, and clear the project for implementation; and (f) supervise the
implementation of the project to ensure that the participating operating agencies carry it out in
accordance with the design approved by CBTU. Since all the project designs will be financed and
approved by CBTU, it is expected that this arrangement will ensure that subcomponents are carried
out according to environmental practices acceptable to the Bank.
J2. Population Relocation
2.35         This project has been rated "B" by the Bank for environmental assessment (EA)
purposes. As such, only selective evaluation and proposals for mitigation of environmentally or socially
relevant impacts are required by the Bank for appraisal. However, in accordance with Brazilian
legislation, a full EA was prepared. TORs were developed by CBTU in consultation with the municipal
licensing agency (Secretaria Municipal do Meio Ambiente, SMMA). In fact, in Belo Horizonte the state
licensing agency (Fundacao Estadual do Meio Ambiente, FEAM) delegates the approval of
environmental impact statement to SMMA. The full extension of Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link (6.5 km, 8
stations) was analyzed by an independent consulting firm. CBTU has also hired an independent
resettlement and environmental assessment specialist to assist in project preparation.
2.36         CBTU is an experienced company and engineering designs are well advanced.
Preparation of assessments and the design of programs addressing environmental and social impacts
have only recently begun due to the requirements of the project cycle, which calls for these activities
to be carried out only after an expropriation decree is issued. This decree in turn depends on a precise
definition of the location and area requirements of all facilities.
2.37         At-grade or elevated structures will be used along the full extent of the line except for
approximately 225 meters of NATM tunnel, significantly reducing expropriation requirements and
environmental impacts as compared to traditional cut-and-cover methods. Stations have similarly been
designed with special attention to reducing expropriation requirements and to blend them with the
surrounding environment. Locations (i.e., buildings and plots) which need to be acquired to implement
the Bank-financed segment are at this point clearly identified. Table 2.4 summarizes their distribution
by site and use.



-18 -
Table 2.4: Expropriation Requirements (buildings and plots)
"Favela"         Residential     Commercial         Vacant           Total
houses           houses           Ishopsl           Lots
No.              No.               No.             No.             No.
292               84               30               12             418
Source: CBTU Resettlement Report
2.38         Whereas the initial layout at-grade called for acquisition of more buildings and plots,
alternative sites, designs and a tunnel of 225 meters were sought in an attempt to minimize public
acquisition. The current proposal has clearly managed to minimize project impact. Of the 406 locations
to be expropriated, 84 are middle-to-low income houses, 292 are favela houses, 30 are small shops,
and 12 are vacant lots. The total affected population is estimated to be under 1,880 people.
2.39         CBTU's usual practice in the case of middle-income residences is to expropriate at
market value, which is established according to criteria defined by ABNT (Associapao Brasileira de
Normas Tdcnicas) in accordance with local real estate transactions. The CBTU's Civil Works
Department follows a standard set of internal procedures, comprising preparation of a physical
cadastre, calculation of the asset's value, and presentation of CBTU's purchase proposal to the
proprietor. The Legal Department carries out the purchase if the stipulated price is accepted by the
proprietor, or takes the case to court if an agreement is not reached. Over the past 20 years, CBTU
has carried out over 5,000 expropriations. In roughly 70 percent of these, the proposed buying price
was accepted. The adequacy of compensation at market value is not difficult to establish since
monitoring and evaluation studies to verify how the affected population relocated were carried out for
the line which is in operation. In case of 'favela' houses, the practice adopted is either to resettle the
affected population to houses which are equal or better than the ones expropriated-preferably to sites
which are close to the ones being affected-or to offer a financial compensation for those families
which prefer to receive money instead of being relocated. The company also provides, in the case of
low-income families, assistance in finding replacement housing, logistical support for moving, legal
support to regularize property titles, relocation grants and other services. The total amount for
resettlement and expropriation was estimated at US$5.1 million. This amount was included in the
project costs and will be fully financed by the GOB.
2.40         An Environmental Assessment Report was prepared in April 1995 according to Bank
Guidelines, including a detailed relocation plan wherever it is applicable, and has been approved by the
Bank. To prepare the report: (a) a meeting with residents was held to present and discuss project
characteristics, expropriation requirements and other relevant impacts, expropriation procedures and
timing, proposed valuation criteria and other forms of compensation and assistance (see para. (d)
below); (b) minutes of the meeting were sent to the Bank; (c) the exact number and socio-economic
profile of affected families was determined; (d) a clear policy statement pertaining to the concession
of other grants and services which CBTU will make available to the affected population was completed;
(e) the final version of the expropriation program, including compensation and mitigation actions,
institutional matrix, chronogram, budget, funding arrangements, reflecting agreements reached with
the affected population, was made available prior to negotiations; and (f) a monitoring and evaluation
program was also presented prior to negotiations, to be carried out until the conclusion of the
relocation process of all households. Evidence that the State licensing agency has approved the
environmental impact statement and has issued the license to build the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link is a
condition of loan disbursement.



- 19 -
K. Private Sector Participation
2.41         To examine the financial instruments which can encourage private participation in the
construction and operation of selected parts of the mass transit systems, CBTU has created a high-
level working group of entrepreneurs and financiers. Many aspects of this program appear to be
appropriate for private or joint public/private development, which could result in considerable savings.
Station development is the most obvious, but consideration should also be given to leasing of some
existing stations and transfer points for private sector development and operation. Disposition of
excess railway land, and air rights would also be explored. CBTU has invited a high-level group
including respected outsiders such as elected officials, investment bankers, prominent developers, civil
works contractors and Chamber of Commerce representatives, to explore this as well as other ways
to 'capture" some of the added value of railway real estate development and prepare proposals for
inclusion in the program.
2.42         It was agreed between CBTU and the Bank that to foster the participation of the private
sector in the system, the Shareholders' Agreements will contain a clause which will require that the
State shall cause the MG Entity to offer to the private sector through at least four invitations to bid,
satisfactory to the Bank, the exploitation of trains, station space, aerial space, parking areas, automatic
ticket collection, and other areas. The first bid should be launched not later than one year after the
transfer of STU-BH.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibilities
3.1          The Government of Brazil will be the Borrower. CBTU will be responsible for
implementing the project, in accordance with: (a) contractual arrangements; (b) the implementation
schedule; (c) implementation arrangements; (d) the decentralization implementation process; (e)
procurement arrangements; (f) disbursement arrangements; (g) auditing arrangements; and (h)
monitoring and reporting arrangements. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations, and
detailed guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, were prepared by CBTU. The Bank will monitor the
implementation of the project in accordance with a monitoring and supervision plan (Annex 1 1).
3.2          The overall coordination and supervision of the proposed project will rest with the CBTU
which has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) supported by consultants. CBTU and the
State agreed that the PIU will continue to manage the execution of the project after the transfer of the
STU-BH system to the State. This will ensure the continuity of project management experience
acquired with the ongoing CBTU-SP and CBTU-RJ projects and will prevent delays which could occur
due a change of the project implementation team before the conclusion of the project. To manage and
guide the "non-hardware" aspects (political, legal, administrative, institutional, and so forth) through
the transition and until December 1 996, an intergovernmental General Coordination Committee will
coordinate the work of a number of task forces, which will carry out strategic studies on terms of
reference agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
B. Contractual Arrangements
3.3         In order to ensure a smooth transition to decentralization, (the formal legal transfer and
start of operations by the SMG Operating Corporation), and to support its subsequent consolidation,
the following legal arrangements will apply:
With the Bank:
Bank and GOB        (Borrower)                        Loan Agreement
Bank and CBTU       (Executing Agency)                Project Agreement
Bank and SMG/MBH    (State of SMG & Municipality of BH)  Shareholders' Agreements
Between Governments and agencies:
GOB and SMG        (Convenio Basico and Termos Aditivos)
CBTU and MG Entity (Decentralization Contract)
C. Implementation Schedule
3.4          The implementation of this project has been tentatively scheduled over a six-year period
(1995-2001). The project would start on July 1, 1995 and be completed by June 30, 2001, with a
closing date of December 31, 2001. The Bank has recommended that STU-BH should take special care
in finalizing the project implementation schedule, which is directly linked to the procurement process,
and indicated that according to the Bank's experience, the bidding process for each bid may take from
7 to 1 2 months, including the approval of bidding documents, advertisement in Development Business
and local press, bid evaluation, recommendations for award, contract signature, and contract
effectiveness.



- 21 -
D. Implementation Arrangements
3.5          Project Implementation Unit. CBTU will establish and maintain a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) headed by a Project Coordinator to manage the implementation of the several components
of the Bank project. The Project Coordinator would report directly to CBTU's President. Project
Management and implementation consultants financed under Part A of the project would act as full-
time advisers to the Project Coordinator to provide the technical support and cross-country experience
required for managing the project. These consultants should be hired immediately after pre-appraisal.
In addition to the Project Coordinator who will be responsible for the overall financial management of
the project, the PIU will include: (a) a transport economist and policy studies coordinator responsible
for overseeing the execution of all the studies and transport economics aspects of Parts B and C of
the project; (b) an engineer, with experience in procurement, to coordinate Part A of the project; (c)
a management information systems specialist responsible for the reporting and supervision of the
project; and (d) a resettlement specialist. The PIU will be supported by a small secretariat which will
include an accountant responsible for project accounts and disbursements.
3.6          MG Entity's Project Management Unit. This Project Management Unit (MGE/PMU) will
be the counterpart of the PIU in STU-BH, and will follow closely the procurement, implementation and
supervision of the STU-BH's related works and acquisition of goods and coordinate system operation.
E. Decentralization Process
3.7          The transfer of the STU-BH subdivision from the GOB to the State of Minas Gerais and
the Municipality of Belo Horizonte has been agreed through the execution of an Agreement of Intent
(Convenio Basico) on June 1, 1995.
3.8          Transitional Phase to Decentralization. As the successful decentralization transfer will
be subject to detailed negotiations, and will involve some political considerations in addition to financial
and technical issues, the detailed steps and transition to decentralization are viewed as a dynamic
process involving the full and transparent participation of all levels of government. In order to support
this process, joint and parallel strategic studies, administrative and legal actions, organizational
changes, and key political decisions will have to be undertaken in a logical and sequential manner, and
synchronized with the timetable for processing and executing the proposed Bank Loan and eventually
for transfer of the system to SMG and MBH not later than the target date of December 31, 1996. The
following steps should be included:
(a)   General Coordination and Completion of Strategic Studies. Immediately
following the signing of the Convenio Basico, the General Coordination
Committee (CG) will manage and guide the decentralization process. The CG
will incorporate a number of task forces. The CG, with representatives from the
CBTU, SMG and MBH, will report to the Conselho Director through the
Representantes Executivos. The task forces will work on the strategic studies
and Actions Plans outlined in the Convenio Basico.
(b)   Transfer to Public Corporation. In accordance with the Federal Government's
policy for modernization of the economy, and SMG and MBH's long-standing
tradition for efficiency, the STU-BH will be transferred to a Public Corporation
(Sociedade Anonima de Economia Mista) called the MG Entity. Assurances
were sought at negotiations that not later than June 30, 1 996 SMG and MBH
would set up such Public Corporation, under an independent Board and
management autonomy, and thereafter, not later than December 31, 1996, the
STU-BH will be fully transferred to the Corporation. The articles of



- 22 -
incorporation would include, among other things, that: (i) the Corporation will
be managed by professionally-trained Chief Executive Officers; (ii) the
management will adhere to specific operating financial and performance targets
set forth in annual contract plans; (iii) management will abide by agreed
personnel and administrative policies; and (iv) the Corporation will follow sound
commercial practices. Draft Articles of the Corporation will be reviewed by the
Bank.
3.9          Timetable and Phasing for Decentralization. The project has been prepared to take into
account the Federal Government's objective to complete the legal and institutional transfer
(Decentralization) of the STU-BH by the target date of December 31, 1996, or when 60 percent of the
loan funds have been disbursed, whichever date is earlier, although the proposed project is expected
to continue until 2001. The term "transfer" means the transfer of ownership and operational
responsibilities of the STU-BH System to the MG Entity including the enactment and execution of all
legal, contractual and administrative acts and documents required under the legislation of the Borrower
and the State for these purposes.
F. Procurement
3.10         All project components financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995).
3.11         Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a)   contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent, and
contracts for works including civil works, systems, permanent way and rolling
stock, estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million equivalent, would be
procured through ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. In ICB
procurement of goods, domestic manufacturers may be granted a margin of
preference by adding 1 5 percent (or the applicable custom duties, whichever
is lower) to the CIF value of the foreign bids.2' The procurement of some
goods valued below US$350,000 could be through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million;
(b)   works of US$5.0 million equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of
US$17.6 million (Table 3.1) would be awarded through NCB procedures and
foreign bidders would have the opportunity to compete. In addition: (i) project
components such as, civil works and systems, permanent way, and rolling
stock have been packaged and would be procured under supply and installation
procedures; and (ii) pre-qualification procedures would be followed for the
procurement of the signaling component; and
(c)   consultants, which are expected to aggregate to about US$14.7 million
(including supervision of investment under the project), would be selected and
engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the use of Consultants (August
1981) and using the Bank's standard contract form for complex assignments.
3/    A local bidder is a Brazilian firm (or a consortium) offering goods containing components manufactured in Brazil that
represent at least 50 percent of the value of the goods.



- 23 -
3.12           All procurement aspects were confirmed during negotiations, in particular the use of:
(a) standard bidding documents for NCB procedures for the procurement of goods or civil works
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) standard contract forms for consulting services issued by the Bank
for complex, time-based consulting assignments. The procurement schedule for major contracts is
shown in Annex 8, Table 8.5.
3.1 3          Procurement Review. All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$350,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost US$5.0 million or more, would
be subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement documentation (advertising, bidding
documents, bid evaluation and contract award). The total value of these contracts would be US$136.7
million or about 83 percent of all Bank-financed goods and civil works. The procurement thresholds
are summarized in Table 3.2. CBTU's management has the capabilities to handle adequately the
procurement processes required for this project. Procurement information would be recorded as
follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract award by the borrower; and (b) comprehensive biannual
reports to the Bank by the borrowers, indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract awards, and completion
time for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements a/
(Estimated cost in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                 lIC         NCB         Other      N.B.F. di    Total Cost
1. WORKS
Civil Works                           88.90       4.77                    28.39         122.06
(50.50)      (2.73)                                (53.23)
Road Traffic Control System            7.85                                               7.85
(4.51)                                             (4.51)
Rolling Stock Refurbishment                       1.75                                    1.75
(.99)                                  (.99)
Permanent Way and Systems             32.02      10.92                                   42.94
(20.12)     (7.00)                                 127 121
2. GOODS                                7.96         .12                                   8-08
(6.60)      (.10)                                  (6.70)
3. CONSULTANT'S SERVICES
Technical Assistance b/                                        13.5                       13.5
(5.94)                     (5.94)
Training
Travel and Expenses c/                                          .35                        35
1.15)                      (.15)
Consultants                                                    .81                        .81
(.36)                      (.36)
TOTAL                                 136.73      17.56        14.66        28.39        197.34
(81.73)    (10.82)       (6.45)                    (99.00)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b/ Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, DC, August 1981).
c/ Items not involving procurement.
d/ Not Bank Financed (includes land expropriations and resettlement).



- 24 -
Table 3.2: Procurement Thresholds
(US$ '000)
Description       Type of Procurement  Prior Review Limit  Contract Value
WORKS
* Civil Works               ICB/NCB           All ICB and
Systems                    ICBINCB            First NCB
* Permanent Way             ICB/NCB            contract         ICB> 5,000
NCB 500 to 5,000
* Rolling Stock               NCB              First NCB
contract           < 5000
Price Quotations from
at least three Bidders    None
< 500
GOODS                          ICB                 All              > 350
NCB              First two         50 to 350
contracts
Price Quotations from
at least three Bidders    None              < 50
CONSULTING SERVICES       Local & Foreign
* Firms                  consulting firms         All              > 100
Individuals             Local & Foreign
individual consultants     All               < 50
G. Disbursement and Special Account
3.14         All disbursements under contracts of less than US$5.0 million equivalent for works,
such as systems, permanent way and assembly of rolling stock, and of less than US$350,000
equivalent for goods would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs)
prepared by CBTU. SOE limits for consultant service contracts will be US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals. Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by CBTU and
made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions. To expedite project
execution, a Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of up to US$6.0 million equivalent. This account
will be replenished for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures. Authorization
is sought for retroactive financing of up to US$9.9 million equivalent (10 percent of loan funds) in
accordance with the Bank's standard guidelines. This retroactive financing would be for expenditures
made after March 31, 1995, but no later than three months after loan effectiveness and cover items
such as the preparation of final engineering designs which must be carried out to complete the project
preparation (Annex 5). Claims for retroactive financing would have to be made no later three months
after loan effectiveness. The disbursement arrangements were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. Table 3.3 presents the percentage to be disbursed by loan category.



- 25 -
Table 3.3: Disbursement by Category
Category                            Amount (US$)           Disbursement Rate
1. Works
(a) Civil Works                     45,000,000       65% of total expenditures
(b) Road Traffic Control Systems     3,500,000       65% of total expenditures
(c) Rolling Stock                    1,000,000       65% of total expenditures
(d) Permanent Way and Systems       22,500,000       75% of total expenditures
2. Goods                             6,500,000        100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally.
3. Consultant's Services and          5,500,000
Training
100% of foreign expenditures
(a) Training abroad
50% of local expenditures
(b) Training in Brazil
50% of local expenditures for
(c) Consultants                                      services of consultants
domiciled within the territory
of the Guarantor and 100% of
foreign expenditures for
services of other consultants
4. Unallocated                       15,000,000
TOTAL                    99,000,000
H. Auditing
3.15         CBTU would prepare financial statements, the Special Account audits, and SOEs audits
using external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would review the external auditors' terms
of reference. CBTU in turn, would require the MG Entity to engage external auditors satisfactory to the
Bank to audit their subproject accounts, which should be maintained separately. CBTU would review
the audits of the subprojects and report to the Bank on the status and any remedial actions taken, if
required. CBTU's and the SMG Entity's audit reports would be presented to the Bank no later than April
30 of each year. The project auditing arrangements were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
I. Monitoring and Reporting
3.1 6        Annual Review and Project Plan of Action. In November of each year, the Bank and the
SMG would conduct a formal joint review of the progress made in reaching the objectives and in the
implementation of the proposed project. The annual review would provide an opportunity to discuss
project issues, in particular:  compliance with covenants; technical assistance; institutional
development advancements and performance of CBTU; execution and analysis of further needs of the
training program; the quality of subproject implementation, including environmental analyses;
implementation of studies, sector policies and actions; and the implementation of a monitoring program



- 26 -
(proposed monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 11). The discussion and analysis of the issues
addressed during the year under review would lead to the formulation of adjustments and, if necessary,
remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank. The timing and scope of the annual review were confirmed
during negotiations.
3.17         The project places great emphasis on institutional development in the sector and as
such, implementation must be closely monitored and evaluated. It is proposed that a Mid-term Review
of the project be held 24 months after loan effectiveness. At the review, the performance of the
project would be assessed and the second period implementation program would be amended as
necessary based on the results of that evaluation.
3.18         Reporting. It was agreed during appraisal, and was confirmed at negotiations, that
CBTU with the assistance of participating operating agencies, would prepare biannual progress reports
on June 30 and December 31 of each year and submit them within 60 days. The reports would cover
past institutional development and project execution achievements and compare them with the
appraisal projections and goals set forth in the Action Plan (Annex 11). They would present a critical
assessment of problems and issues arising during project execution. The reports would also discuss
compliance with dated covenants and other conditions by each agency and actions taken to enforce
compliance. In cases of unsatisfactory progress, the reports would also describe proposals for
adjustments and remedial actions. The case for more periodic (quarterly) reporting would be reviewed
at the Mid-term Review. To facilitate adequate monitoring of the project, CBTU has agreed to install
no later than 90 days after loan signing a management information system to track the physical,
financial and environmental status of each component of the project.
J. Project Supervision
3.19         The responsibilities for supervising project implementation and a supervision plan are
shown in Annex 11. It is expected that at least three supervision missions per year staffed by an urban
transport engineer/planner, a railway engineer, a metro infrastructure engineer, and a financial
analyst/transport economist will be required to supervise the proposed project during the first three
years of execution. In addition, specialists in resettlement, traffic engineering, air quality and
procurement would accompany the supervision missions as required. Supervision requirements are
expected to be intensive, particularly in the initial years, as Bank missions would aim to visit every
operating agency at least once a year. For the first three years, the supervision requirements are
estimated at about 1 5 staff weeks, reducing to 13 staff weeks in the fourth year, and 1 2 staff weeks
in the fifth, sixth and seventh years.



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   The following Project Management assurances were obtained at appraisal and confirmed at
negotiations:
(a)   that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be structured and adequately staffed and
otherwise supported in the implementation of its responsibility under the project. CBTU
provided the Bank with the names and curricula vitae of the staff assigned to the PIU
(para. 3.5);
(b)   that procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, including: (i)
the use of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, under
NCB and ICB procedures; (ii) use of Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants;
and (iii) the procurement limits (para. 3.11);
(c)   that a Special Account in a commercial bank will be opened and maintained (para.
3.14);
(d)   that the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a) will be audited
according to procedures, and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
audits will be submitted by April 30 of each year (para. 3.15);
(e)   that: (i) within 90 days of loan signing a Project Management Information System
satisfactory to the Bank will be installed; and (ii) pre-agreed operational and financial
performance targets will be included in the biannual progress reports to the Bank (para.
3.18);
(f)   that the project will be executed, and the system subsequently operated in accordance
with good environmental practices (para. 2.31); and
(g)   that the Environmental Assessment for the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link be submitted to
the Bank and State and Municipal Authorities (para. 2.35).
4.2    The Conv&nio Basico satisfactory to the Bank and completion of final engineering and technical
specifications of works and goods for the first year of the program were submitted to the Bank for
review during negotiations.
4.3   The following is a Condition of Loan Effectiveness: the registration of the Loan Agreement by
the Central Bank.
4.4    The following is a Condition of Disbursement for the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link: the approval
by the State and Municipal environmental authorities of the Environmental Assessment of the Sao
Paulo - Vilarinho link and the granting of the necessary licenses for the works (para. 2.40);
4.5    Dated covenants to be included in the Legal Agreements are:
(a)   Decentralization and Operational Efficiency:
(i)   that the transfer of STU-BH will be completed by the target date of December
31, 1996 or when 60 percent of the loan funds have been disbursed,
whichever date is earlier, in accordance with a phased program previously
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.9);



- 28 -
lii)  that not later than June 30, 1996 SMG and MBH establish or designate a
juridically independent public corporation (the MG Entity) with sufficient powers
and authority to accept the transfer of STU-BH and to own and operate all
assets included therein. That SMG and MBH not later than December 1 5 each
year after the transfer and until December 1 5, 2001 execute agreements with
the MG Entity, satisfactory to the Bank (the Contract Plans), including specific
performance targets for the following fiscal year and the financial contributions
and other actions required from the State to enable the MG Entity to attain
such targets (para. 3.8); and
(iii)  that CBTU will actively pursue actions to meet the agreed basic performance
targets until the transfer of STU-BH and cooperate with the MG Entity
thereafter to achieve the targets agreed until the end of the project by ensuring
that implementation of the project is on schedule (para. 3.18).
(b)   Financial Policy and Modal Integration:
(i}   that prior to the transfer of STU-BH to the State, the GOB will be responsible
for the cost of capital investments plus debt service (interest and amortization)
of the STU-BH incurred before the transfer and the costs of the proposed loan
(para. 2.20);
(ii)  that during the period up to December 31, 1996, the GOB: (i) will cover the
difference between the working costs and operating revenues of the STU-BH;
and (ii) that after the transfer is effected, the GOB operating subsidy (shortfall
between operating revenues and working expenses) to the MG Entity will be
discontinued (para. 2.20);
(iii)  that the CBTU, SMG and MBH undertake to ensure completion of the financing
mechanisms study (under terms of reference approved by the Bank) at least
one month before the Mid-term Project Review, so that an Action Plan on the
agreed recommendations can be prepared (para. 2.19);
(iv)  that not later than 1 2 months from the date of signing of the Loan Agreement,
SMG and MBH will present a plan (financial, technical and institutional) and a
timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer, integration and
consolidation of the municipal and metropolitan bus system with the STU-BH
(para. 2.1 1); and that SMG and MBH will be responsible for implementing this
integration plan not later than 30 days after the entry in operation of each link
of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho line; and
(v)   that SMG and MBH will create a Regional Transport Coordination Commission
not later than one year after loan effectiveness (para. 1.13).
(c)   that a Mid-term Project Review will take place 24 months after project effectiveness
to review pre-agreed institutional, operational and financial performance indicators, and
compliance with covenants (including tariffs, subsidies, and progress on studies) of the
Loan and Project Agreements to assess project performance and progress on
decentralization, and as necessary, agree on remedial actions. Particular importance will
be given, during the Mid-term Review, to the agreed working ratios and the status of
the studies and action plans required to ensure a smooth transfer of STU-BH (para.
3.17); and



- 29 -
(d)    Private Sector Participation: the State shall cause the MG Entity to offer to the private
sector, through at least four invitations to bid, satisfactory to the Bank, the exploitation
of trains, station space, aerial space above stations, parking terminals, automatic fare
collection and other investments. The first bid should be launched not later than one
year after the transfer of STU-BH (para. 2.42).
4.6    Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$9.9 million equivalent (10 percent of
loan funds) for expenditures made after March 31, 1995 (but no later than three months after loan
effectiveness) is recommended because certain project activities, such as preparation of final
engineering designs, will have to be undertaken immediately.
4.7    Recommendation. With the above Agreements and Conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$99 million equivalent, to be repaid in 1 5 years, at the Bank's standard
variable rate, with a grace period of five years and loan amortization based on level repayments of
principal.



-30-                                ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BRAZIL
AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.           This Annex outlines the Bank's past support for the Brazilian urban transport sector and
the experience gained. The lessons learned can be summarized as: (a) the coordination between the
three levels of government in urban transport should be dealt with very carefully at the project
preparation level and reviewed in detail during the Mid-term Project Review; (b) policy for the sector
should be strengthened to minimize distortions resulting from inefficient physical and financial
coordination between modes and to promote multi-modal integration; (c) the tariff levels should allow
for significant cost recovery of working costs and should be complemented by financing mechanisms
which cover the shortfall; (d) demand levels are often overestimated and should therefore be carefully
scrutinized; and (e) more attention should be given to the management of infrastructure maintenance.
A. First Urban Transport Project (Ln. 1563-BR. US$88 million, May 1978)
2.           Project Objectives. The objectives were to: (a) finance investments that would improve
urban transport services, with emphasis on the provision of public transport, especially to the poor;
(b) promote and support the development and implementation of appropriate urban transport policies;
and (c) strengthen municipal, state, and federal capacity to prepare, appraise, and execute sound urban
transport projects.
3.           Project Content. The project was broad in scope and included traffic engineering and
management measures in central urban areas and at critical points, the introduction of exclusive bus
lanes and segregated busways, widening of critical links, or construction of missing links in the road
network, reorganization or construction of bus terminals, paving of bus routes in low-income areas,
and training, technical assistance and institutional strengthening to improve the delivery of transport
services. Project beneficiaries included five metropolitan regions (Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre,
Belo Horizonte and Salvador). Nine different agencies were involved in implementation and overall
coordination was the responsibility of the Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU).
4.          Implementation Experience. The project experienced various delays due to: (a) lack of
institutional support to the cities from EBTU, and Government changes in 1 979 which led to staff
changes in the various implementing agencies; (b) the preparation of final engineering designs and
tendering; (c) land acquisition; (d) availability of counterpart funds; (e) local level coordination; and (f)
quality control of the works. The closing date for the project was extended twice, resulting in the
implementation period changing from three years to five years and nine months. This suggests that the
appraisal schedule estimate was overly optimistic. Even so, the implementation period was still
substantially shorter than both worldwide and LAC region profiles which were above eight years. The
only specific covenant not met was the one requiring the five municipalities to take the necessary steps
to revise the valuation for tax purposes of properties whose values had been affected by the project.
In the early stages of the project, EBTU staff were less forceful than expected in solving local problems
and bringing difficulties to the attention of decision-makers. It must be recognized, however, that EBTU
was in its formative stages. This was a first project for them and there was a learning process
involved. As part of this process, and in order to achieve institutional improvement, EBTU prepared
several operational manuals to assist in the appraisal and supervision processes. These manuals and
the experience gained by EBTU (and the Bank) provided the basis for the development procedures
applied in the Third Urban Transport Project (1981), which did much to improve the quality and
efficiency of EBTU's operations.



- 31 -                               ANNEX 1
5.           Results. The project was timely and helped to focus the Government's growing concern
about urban transport problems. The support given to the institutional development of EBTU, following
its creation in 1976, improved federal-level urban transport planning. The project was successful in
providing improved urban transport services, particularly public transport to serve the poor. The OED
concluded that "the project was successful in implementing some of the most imaginative and radical
bus priority measures carried out anywhere in the world. These experiences have relevance for Bank-
financed urban transport projects worldwide." The bus priority measures included the development of
the bus corridor concept. Bus corridors were designed to accommodate passenger demand levels which
were difficult to satisfy by conventional bus services. Schemes involved segregated busways
introduced into the existing road system, facilities for passengers and pedestrians, bus system
reorganization (usually trunk/feeder), traffic management measures and integrated bus fare systems.
The project was also generally successful in providing institutional support at the metropolitan region
(MR) level where there has been a significant improvement in the capacity of the agencies to tackle
urban transport issues. The success was most particularly noted in those cities in which plans for
future urban transport investments existed, not necessarily financed by the Bank, which provided the
scope for continued institutional support. Finally, the studies and institutional strengthening financed
under the project, coupled with the successful implementation of the physical components, have led
to policy changes affecting urban transport in Brazil as whole and, in particular, have resulted in
increased emphasis on public bus transport and greater attention to cost-effective policies of traffic
management.
6.           Sustainability. Institutional, technical and financial resources are required to sustain the
types of investments included in the First Urban Transport Project. Although there were some
institutional and technical weaknesses, the project clearly provided support to strengthen EBTU and
the local agencies. In the case of EBTU, this support was continued in the Third Urban Transport
Project. The major constraint with respect to sustainability has been the lack of provision for cost
recovery, or other funds to cover maintenance of the physical schemes implemented under the project.
The failure to make provision for maintenance of the investments is seen in practically all the city
projects.
7.           However, the project had a substantial institutional impact overall. It assisted EBTU at
a critical and formative stage of its development, by providing strong technical and financial support,
which enabled it to play a catalytic role in transport improvements in urban areas. EBTU subsequently
took increasing responsibility in the appraisal and supervision of Bank-financed urban transport projects,
a process which began with the five metropolitan regions included in the First Urban Transport Project,
and which culminated with full responsibility for appraisal and supervision of eleven of the fourteen
urban centers included in the Third Urban Transport Project.
8.           The institutional support resulting from the technical assistance and studies, coupled
with the experience gained generally from the successful implementation of the physical components
included in the First Urban Transport Project, have led to urban transport policy changes which affect
Brazil as a whole. These include more emphasis on traffic management, on the provision of public bus
transport, and on the functioning of coordinating bodies at the local level to implement urban transport
policy.
B. Second Urban Transport (Porto Alegre) Project (Ln. 1839-BR, US$159 million, June 1980)
9.           Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) to establish a new company to own,
manage, and operate a suburban rail mass transit system on a commercial basis without operating
subsidies; (b) to achieve a significantly more efficient modal distribution of traffic and use of all
transport facilities in the metropolitan region's North-South corridor; and Ic) to promote the



- 32 -                               ANNEX 1
development of selected employment growth poles in the North-South corridor near urban railway
stations.
10.          Project Content. The project consisted of the construction of a surface suburban rail
mass transit system using electric unit trains between the central business area in Porto Alegre and
the municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to the north, the establishment of a new company to own,
manage and operate this service, and a complementary program of policies and studies.
11.          Implementation Experience. Despite some serious problems of procurement, passenger
services started in March 1 985, one year after the originally planned starting date. The railway
company, TRENSURB, was successfully established and during the course of project implementation
changed its nature from a construction organization to a railway operating company. The project
closing date was extended once by one year to December 31, 1986.
12.          Results. The Project Completion Report sums up well the principal lessons:
(a)   It is not sufficient that the railway service has been successfully implemented.
The success of the project depends upon the service attracting sufficient
passengers to make the investments economically viable and the railway profit-
able. This will be highly contingent upon the resumption of economic growth
in Porto Alegre and in the evolution of the fares for the users of alternative
transport modes. In addition, the attractiveness of the system would be
enhanced by the implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried
out under the project (bus integration, car parking restrictions, etc.).
(b}   One major lesson to be learned from this project is that, in cases in which there
is a need for substantial policy decisions and the implementation of measures
involving different Government agencies subject to conflicting pressures, their
commitment should be realistically assessed during project preparation. The
steps to ensure that these policies are implemented on time should be carefully
identified at the same time. In the particular case of the Second Urban
Transport Project, a more detailed action program including specific policy
implementation targets and appropriate measures for its enforcement should
have been agreed upon during appraisal.
(cl   Regarding the original objective of TRENSURB covering its working costs, the
appraisal was unrealistic to expect that this would take place during the initial
operation period. Only after the system has demonstrated its reliability to the
users, will the application of a revenue maximizing policy be feasible. In the
meantime, TRENSURB should review its staff needs in order to streamline costs
and carry out a tariff study to determine the optimal user charges. The Bank
should closely follow-up the implementation of these tasks in the context of its
ongoing and future involvement in the sector and continue to impress upon the
Government the benefits to be gained from a financially healthy public enter-
prise as well as the existence of tools much more effective than transport
subsidies to achieve income distribution objectives."
C. Third Urban Transport Project (Ln. 1965-BR, US$90 million, March 1981)
13.          Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of
EBTU's operations through changes in its structure, procedures, and staff allocation; (b) to improve
transport infrastructure and operations in 14 medium-sized cities and conurbations (AGLURB); and (c)



- 33 -                              ANNEX 1
to pave bus routes in low-income areas in medium-sized cities, state capitals, and metropolitan regions
(termed PROPAV).
14.          Project Content. The project consisted of three subprojects: (a) the institutional
subproject included EBTU's reorganization, training, technical assistance and studies; (b) the AGLURB
subproject consisted of the establishment and operation of an urban transport management unit in each
of the 14 cities and various components in low-cost improvements to existing urban transport
infrastructure, with emphasis on public transport operations and improvements of planning and
operation of urban transport infrastructure and services at the local level; and (c) the PROPAV
subproject included the paving of about 850 km of bus routes in low-income areas.
1 5.        Implementation Experience. Project implementation delays were experienced as a result
of numerous political changes, limited counterpart funds, the transfer of EBTU to the Minist6rio de
Desenvolvimento Urbano (MDU) from the Ministerio dos Transportes (MT) and, soon thereafter, the
Federal Government's Economic Package, which delayed the signing of the 1 986 Convenios by about
six months. The project was amended twice, which included the addition of four cities to the AGLURB
subproject and of 350 km of bus routes in low-income areas to the PROPAV subproject, and resulted
also in an extension in the implementation period from four years and three months to five years and
nine months. EBTU was in compliance with all loan covenants.
1 6.         Results. The AGLURB subproject has done much to create a realistic and effective
transport planning environment in Brazilian medium-sized conurbations. The design of the physical
components drew heavily on the successful experience of the First Urban Transport Project. Emphasis
of the project was placed on cost-effective, traffic management-based schemes in which assistance
to public transport (buses) has been the primary objective in the majority of components. The
institutional development of the AGLURB areas was achieved through the establishment of
management units specifically to coordinate project implementation. Transport companies were formed
to coordinate transport planning and operation. Retention of the management units would depend on
decisions by individual cities, but selected personnel would be transferred from the management units
to the transport companies. At the time of project completion, the implementation delays arising from
the political, financial, and organizational factors meant that comprehensive ex-post evaluations were
not yet available. As with the First Urban Transport Project, there is a risk that the institutional gains
may not be sustained unless a flow of funds is made available to AGLURB cities to continue purposeful
transport planning.
1 7.         The PROPAV program   was innovative and was a significant step in EBTU's
development. PROPAV was essentially a subsectoral component and EBTU was responsible for all
aspects of the program. The program utilized local materials and labor-intensive construction methods
to the maximum practical extent, with the result that the costs were initially overestimated. This
permitted a greater than targeted program to be undertaken, and to date all 850 km of paving have
been implemented. The PROPAV program is regarded as a highly successful program. To an extent,
the success of the program is demonstrated by the fact that similar paving programs have been
undertaken in other countries in Latin America.
1 8.         The institutional strengthening comprised two main aspects: (a) EBTU reorganization;
and (b) training and studies. The reorganization of EBTU proposed under the Third Project was
completed in 1 984. In general, the reorganization was judged to have increased EBTU's effectiveness.
However, with the changing demands arising from federal government policy on decentralization and
from the needs of the Fourth Urban Transport Project, additional changes were considered necessary.
1 9.         The training program comprised a conventional approach (of courses, seminars, etc.)
to transport planners and an imaginative training program for bus operators and personnel. The latter



- 34 -                              ANNEX 1
program has been successful in lowering bus operating costs, reducing accidents, and improving public
acceptability for bus services.
20.          The general delays in project implementation affected the commencement of the studies
proposed for inclusion in the project. Furthermore, EBTU did not initially give high priority to the
studies. However, in the last year of the project, the study program was revised and additionally
provided inputs to the preparation of the Fourth Urban Transport project. In particular, the Financial
Study enabled EBTU to form a policy for on-lending, the vehicle operating cost study (carried out by
GEIPOT) provided data for incorporation in the EBTU Operations Manual (OM), and the bus information
system program (SITURB) furnished an initial data base for evaluating bus operating costs.
D. Fourth Urban Transport Project (Ln. 2822-BR, US$200 million, May 1987)
21.          Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) improve the operating efficiency of the
urban transport systems in the nine metropolitan regions (MRs) through savings in transport costs and
time; (b) seek to pass savings from improvements in the urban transport systems on to users, many
of whom were among the urban poor, in the form of lower tariffs and/or improved levels of service;
(c} conserve energy and encourage substitution of diesel fuel by promotion of domestic energy sources,
wherever economically justified; (d) strengthen the role of financial aspects in urban transport policy;
(e) strengthen the major institutions, in particular for coordinated investment planning for the sector
as a whole; and (f) increase the responsiveness of transport planning to local needs.
22.          Project Content. The proposed project would have financed components selected from
EBTU's rolling urban transport investment plan (1986-1 990) in Brazil's nine MRs (Belo Horizonte,
Belem, Curitiba, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and Sao Paulo). Components
would include a Corridor Program, comprising investments, including design and supervision, to
improve public transportation (mainly bus systems, but also some trolley bus and ferry systems) and
to correct weaknesses in road networks. The Corridor Program would include infrastructure (including
extensive rehabilitation and reconstruction), traffic management measures and supporting
organizational improvements; and a system-wide Maintenance Program, including civil works,
equipment, the establishment of maintenance management systems, and institutional strengthening.
The project would also finance a sector-wide Institutional Program which would involve EBTU, MRs,
MDU, and CBTU. This component would include technical assistance and training for improved
planning and operational practices, studies and organizational measures to strengthen and improve
sector coordination, financial planning and urban transport policy development and pilot technological
development programs.
23.          Results. There was a considerable delay in declaring the project effective. Institutional
problems at the level of the Federal Government resulted in a very poor environment for the project's
implementation. The Fourth Urban Transport Project was canceled when the EBTU was abolished by
the Government in 1989.
E. S3o Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-BR, US$126 million,
September 1992)
24.          This project was signed in September 1 992, became effective in February 1 993, and
its closing date is June 30, 1 996. The project is underway and several major institutional hurdles, such
as a federal law to transfer the assets of the railway from the Federal to the State, have been
overcome. The rehabilitation of CBTU-SP, the Sao Paulo subdivision of the CBTU, is underway. Sao
Paulo established a new company (CPTM) to take over the decentralized CBTU-SP and also the
FEPASA metropolitan train. So far, the main problems of the project have been associated with
problems at the Federal level, including delays in the opening of special accounts, and several changes



- 35 -                               ANNEX 1
in ministers and their immediate advisors. These constant changes delayed the signing of 'conv6nios'
which regulate the transfer of operations and assets. The actual takeover of CBTU by CPTM took place
on May 27, 1994. The project is now disbursing very well and some of the infrastructure and
equipment components have been completed. As of February 21, 1995, 68 percent of the total project
cost had been committed.
F. Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3633-BR, US$128.5 million,
October 1993)
25.          This project was signed in October 1993 and became effective on March 14, 1993.
Most of the bids for track work and rolling stock rehabilitation are underway. The actual
decentralization which involves the takeover of CBTU-Rio de Janeiro by the State and of the Metro by
the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro took place on January 1, 1 995.
G. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
26.          Despite the considerable achievements of the First Urban Transport Project and the
success of the Third Urban Transport Project, the projects have led to the conclusion that several
specific issues in the urban transport sector require attention and should be addressed within the
context of overall sector reform. The main issues are discussed below.
27.          Cost Recovery. Direct cost recovery is difficult in the urban transport sector, other than
for self-financing infrastructure and passenger vehicles and vessels. Therefore, transportation
infrastructure investments (urban and interurban) conventionally recover costs indirectly through
transport-related taxes. In the First Urban Transport Project, it was envisaged that partial cost recovery
would take place by the revaluation of properties whose values were affected by the project. No such
revision in valuation, however, has apparently taken place in any of the five MRs, partly because of
the difficulties in assessing an increase in property values through the low-cost improvement schemes
provided under the project, when alternative policies or conditions encourage the provision of essential
municipal infrastructure, at little or no cost to the beneficiaries. In retrospect, the project should have
also addressed the indirect cost recovery mechanisms.
28.          Maintenance. Lack of maintenance is clearly a problem in each of the five MRs in the
First Project, and is now apparent in the components implemented early in the Third Urban Transport
Project. Problems apply to a wide range of components. Maintenance covenants were included in the
agreements for both projects, but this has proved an ineffective mechanism for ensuring adequate
maintenance levels. While there is increasing awareness of the problem and while improved
maintenance standards are an objective of the Federal Government, there is a need to develop an
institutional and financial framework and capability to provide the necessary funding and to carry out
the appropriate maintenance. In hindsight, this problem probably reflects the limitation of addressing
narrow sectoral issues, in isolation of a broader policy framework for the urban sector as a whole.
29.          Bus Regulation. There has been a trend in some cities toward the creation of integrated
bus systems, controlled and regulated by a central, public authority. The central authority plans the
system and contracts with operators to provide services according to standard cost schedules. "Excess
revenue" is taken from operators on profitable routes to cross subsidize those operating unprofitable
routes. The feeder/trunk concept may make this increased regulation easier to achieve. There are
several areas of concern. First, there are signs that the determination by the central authority of all
operating parameters is tending to lead to standardized solutions which may stifle innovation and
reduce passenger choice. Secondly, the contribution of the private sector is limited. Thirdly, the needs
of the passenger do not always receive adequate attention; for example, feeder/trunk systems force
passengers to change buses and in cases where full integration has not been achieved, passengers can



-36-                                  ANNEX 1
be worse off since they have to pay twice and are further inconvenienced by the change. A thorough
review of the regulatory framework is urgently required, to ensure improved accessibility, greater
equity and efficiency, and a stronger role for private sector operators of public transport.
H. Lessons Learned and the Proposed Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
Project
30.          The proposed urban transport project is the seventh to be considered in Brazil. Thus,
there is considerable "in-country" experience to draw upon. In addition, the design of the proposed
project has attempted to recognize the findings and experience from similar projects outlined in this
Annex. The main features of the proposed project which respond to the lessons learned are described
in the following paragraphs.
31.           Institutions. A successful institutional arrangement will be the key to project success
and project sustainability. In the past in Brazil, there has been little incentive for cities/municipalities
to undertake cost-effective transport planning and investment. Cities have been starved of resources
for transport investment. The creation of the Belo Horizonte Regional Transport Coordination
Commission (RTCC) will be a major advance. In addition to insuring that major projects are in line with
an approved integrated air quality, land use and urban transport strategy, RTCC's key role will be to
facilitate service and tariff integration between the several modes. It is expected that no urban
transport project in the BHMR will be considered in the future by the Bank without prior approval by
the RTCC.
32.          To further support the long-term development of traffic and transport planning, the
project will include funding for the preparation of an Integrated Air Quality, Land Use and Urban
Transport strategy and the updating of the metropolitan data base. Staff from participating
implementing agencies will benefit from this work.
33.           Counterpart Funding. In Brazil, lack of timely counterpart funding is often the main
cause of delays in project implementation. Several steps were taken to mitigate this problem. The
Governor, as a condition of negotiations, will indicate in writing that in case of scarcity of counterpart
funds the proposed project will have priority over other transport projects. Although an analysis of the
State finances reveals that the sources of funds exist, the challenge will be to ensure that they are
available when the system is decentralized.
34.           Implementation Schedule. Long implementation, and thus slow disbursements, have
been problems in previous projects. This may be traced to:
(a)    Lack of familiarity of local staff with Bank procedures. A training program is proposed
but training programs take time for benefits to be realized and, even then, there is no
substitute for practical application. CBTU's PIU has gained considerable experience
with the ongoing Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
loans (Lns. 3457-BR and 3633-BR).
(b)    Uncertain political commitment. The establishment of the RTCC gives grounds for
confidence that all levels of government of the metropolitan region are committed to
the project. During preparation the level of support was excellent.
(c)    Lack of final engineering designs for physical works. It is proposed that participating
agencies should have the first year of final engineering designs (including bidding
documents) available at negotiations.



- 37 -                              ANNEX 1
35.          Environment. In the past, urban transport projects with the exception of the Mexico
Transport Air Quality Management Project (Ln. 3543-ME) and the Teheran Transport Emissions
Reduction Project (TF 028642-GET) have had few or no specific measures to improve air quality
project. The proposed project contains an Air Quality and Traffic Safety component which together
with the infrastructure components is expected to set the foundation for further development in these
areas in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
1.           The overall coordination and supervision of the proposed project rests with the CBTU
which has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). To assist CBTU to carry out its obligations,
the PIU will be supported by a Project Management and Implementation Consultant (PMIC). CBTU will
be the implementing agency for all components but will be helped in some cases by the State/Municipal
Agency in charge of the specific area addressed by the component.
Table 2.1 Implementing Agency for Each Component
Component                     Implementation        Assisting
Agency             Agency
PART A - Infrastructure and Equipment               CBTU              CBTU
PART B - Environmental and Safety                   CBTU
Part B1 - Air Quality subcomponent                  CBTU              SMMA
Part B2 - Traffic Safety and Control subcomponent   CBTU            BHTRANS
|PART C - Institutional Development and Policy       CBTU         BHTRANS/DER-MG
2.           All procurement will be the responsibility of CBTU and will be carried out by the PIU
until the completion of the proposed project.



- 39 -                                 ANNEX 2
Figure 2.1: Flow of Funds
Federal Government
Commercial         National
IBRDX          Bank            Treasury
CBTU
Figure 2.2: Legal Agreements
IBRD
Loan                          Prject                       Shareholders'
Agreement                      Agreement                      Agreements
Federal                         c   JConveni j o
overnment                           ~~~~~~~~Basico



- 40 -                                              ANNEX 2
Fi%Z3,        .m    * m.   Coordiration   rTrWmlts
BESE   0    MIIR I ZC34TE-=                            GOVERN
ESTADO
PREFEITURA
CONSELIHO
5NT-DIER                                                                    __     SECTARIAS       _
.   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~~ERgaAL                ESTAUAL        PMUNICI :PAL
TEtCN ISCA
COOFlDENACAO                                                               I
DA        -----------.,--------                      AlvBI9.... ---- -------| STLICAL 
NGCLEO DE~~~~~~ PLANEJAMENTO|
CONTRATAC,O PROOPAMACAO                               |
CENTRAIZADAE CCNTROLE                               |
NUCLEO DE     l                                                 cooRIeqA;Ao
COORDENACAO DE    ................... ---------------------l          DA
|  3 n HMIZms     |I DESCENTRALIZA(;A
SISTEMAS                                                    |FINANCEIRA             INTUCOA        |
F10DANTE                                                    |PATRImMONI                - 2  JUR[ICA
OBPAS             ---------------------- ---. ----------I                    |        1CUFRSOS
CIVIS                                                        ENG1ENHtAR IA           H FMANOS
|DESENV.INTEG E|II        lDAQAO E     I
|ME IO AMB IENTEp P  5  CONSOL IDA4;AO I



- 41 -                              ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
REGIONAL TRANSPORT COORDINATION COMMISSION
A. The Establishment and Role of a Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC)
1.           To facilitate coordination of investment and operation among the major providers of
urban transport services, the proposal to create a regional coordinating body is being given priority.
This would not be a new level of government and would not usurp the powers of the State or the
Municipality. It would provide a forum, however, to formally review all proposals with respect to their
compliance with an agreed-upon transport strategy, evaluate alternatives, and make recommendations
based on a regional, intermodal point of view. The RTCC will include representatives of the Governor
of the State and Mayors of the BHMR, in particular the Mayor of the Belo Horizonte Municipality, as
well as DEMETR6, BHTRANS, DER-MG, DETRAN and bus operator associations and those agencies
responsible for municipal and regional planning. An Executive Secretariat in charge of actually
developing and/or evaluating proposals and carrying out day-to-day activities would be established.
RTCC would be responsible for developing an integrated urban transport and air quality strategy for
the BHMR that is compatible with the land use policies jointly developed with the land use agencies
of the BHMR.
2.           The following questions must be asked when defining the functions of the RTCC: (a)
How are transport plans prepared, and how often are they updated? Is a single entity responsible for
their preparation across all modes (highways, metro, suburban rail, bus/busways) and the entire region,
or are separate plans prepared by the respective municipalities, building and operating companies and
then put together by a coordinating agency? (b) Who monitors the condition and performance of the
transport systems, and how do the results of the monitoring feed into the planning process? (c) What
is the relationship between the transport plan(s) and the respective land use plans developed by the
municipalities? (d) What is the relationship between the plan(s) developed under question (a) above,
and the multi-year capital program developed by the various implementing authorities? Is the project
flow top-down (i.e., emanates from the plan), bottom-up (generated by the implementers/operators),
or both? and (e) Do the various operating companies have direct access to funding or should their
capital budgets be approved either by the SMG or the new RTCC?
3.           At the suggestion of the Bank, SMG, MBH, MB and MC have created a forerunner of
the RTCC, the Grupo Permanente de Planejamento Integrado (GPPI), and with the support of the MBH,
it has launched studies to define the role, responsibilities, composition and funding of the RTCC. As
a condition of negotiations, the GPPI should be established by an implementation agreement
"convenio" signed by the SMG and MBH.
B. RTCC's Proposed Structure, Composition and Role
4.           The general structure of an entity in charge of coordinating transport policy, prioritizing
major investments, and defining air quality and traffic safety objectives and policies pertaining to urban
transport in the 1 8 municipalities that make up the BHMR is outlined below. This report highlights the
basic features of a proposed solution which attempts to comply with the objectives described above.
Institutional Background
5.           The BHMR comprises 18 independent municipalities, each with its own Mayor and
Municipal Council (Camara de Vereadores), of which the Municipality of Belo Horizonte (Prefeitura),



- 42 -                               ANNEX 3
also the State Capital, is by far the largest and most important from the economic and political
standpoints. The State Constitution indicates that public transport of regional interest is to be planned
and coordinated by the State Government together with the Municipalities involved. Such is the case
with many transport routes in the BHMR. In fact, even some transport services within the boundaries
of a specific Municipality can be of regional interest and, as such, should be planned jointly. The DER-
MG has been entrusted with the task of fostering joint transport planning efforts within the BHMR,
with assistance from a local strategic transport planning body which would include representatives
from the State and from municipal governments.
6.           Metropolitan Regions in Brazil have been defined but have not been legally established.
For that reason, a level of government hierarchically superior to city governments but below the State
level does not exist in practice. In parallel, the 1 988 Federal Constitution has strongly enhanced the
independence of Municipal authorities in many functions, one of them being transport policy and
regulation. Therefore, discussions towards metropolitan transport coordination must be accompanied
by the provision of an adequate State-level institutional framework, which should be simple but should
also have the leverage to elicit effective interest from Municipalities, as benefits from joining the
common planning effort become more clearly outlined.
Basic Concepts
7.     In light of the aforementioned legal constraints, local (BHMR and elsewhere in Brazil)
experiments in metropolitan transport coordination have continued, some with a reasonable degree of
success. These indicate that the key elements for the sustainability of the proposed coordination are
as follows: (a) it should be conceived as a permanent structure, designed to outlive executive or
legislative mandate periods; (b) it should be accepted by the parties as an additional asset and not as
a threat to their autonomy or decision-making powers (even though the power balance may, and
probably will, shift at its inception); (c) it will not interfere with jurisdictions which belong to those
parties, notwithstanding the fact that it will be granted a specific political status, and its own specific
powers; and (d) it should not assume the functions of a Public Company (Empresa), nor should it be
in charge of operations of any kind. These conditions for long-term sustainability of an entity of this
type may restrict the scope of work to only a few basic functions, which will, however, constitute the
basis upon which to develop further coordinating responsibilities. The proposed coordinating body will
hereafter be referred to as the Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC). Experience in
other countries, such as that of the United States, indicates that the planning function is the best
support for actions aimed at transport coordination. Such planning aims at the establishment of a fully
integrated public transport system, and this concept should always be present as a basic guideline for
coordination proposals and for the implementation of the related institutional framework.
8.           Within the planning function, priorities should be appropriately defined. Actions might
begin, for example, with investment policy and fare policy coordination, and later encompass physical
planning, traffic management, and system operations. Such phasing-in would be supported by a
common strategic vision of the metropolitan transport system. RTCC would have an important role in
the decision-making process regarding the transfer of transport-related funds from the State and
Federal levels to the municipalities. Projects submitted to the World Bank and other multilateral
agencies should first be prioritized by the RTCC. It should be noted that granting such powers may be
one of the most difficult points to be agreed upon. If, however, the final investment decisions are left
out from RTCC attributes, RTCC would become little more than a forum for discussions (and eventual
decisions) on metropolitan transport matters, with little or no coordinating role. Budget control by
RTCC would be more naturally accepted by the parties involved, given a set of political mechanisms,
such as: (a) assuring an adequate balance between state and municipal points of view concerning
planning decisions; (b) active involvement of the Federal government, considering that good transport
performance in large urban areas is to be viewed as a matter of national interest, and not only as a



- 43 -                              ANNEX 3
concern of local government entities; and (c) implementation of a permanent planning process,
continuously incorporating relevant new information as it is made available, with emphasis on socio-
economic and environmental changes and proposed improvements to the transport system, always
from a strategic point of view.
9.           DER-MG and BHTRANS's role will be crucial for a successful RTCC. The Metropolitan
Transport Secretary would represent the State Government and preside over the Executive Secretariat.
Also, BHTRANS would provide RTCC with the necessary technical and administrative support. In the
event that BHMR becomes a legally recognized entity, RTCC would naturally be absorbed into a fuller
metropolitan planning structure, and this possibility should be taken into account from the earliest
phases of its conception by MBH. The establishment of the RTCC as a permanent body, as mentioned
before, will require a search for the most suitable legal framework. Also, RTCC components would be
designed with that in mind, giving priority to stable relations with all government levels, while
maintaining sound political and technical supporting structures. When the RTCC is established, existing
bodies with related functions would be terminated or absorbed into it. Based on the above discussion,
the CBTU has proposed an implementation agreement or "convAnio' to establish the RTCC. Highlights
of the "convenio" are given below.
General Description of RTCC
10.          Objective. As stated in the draft convenio to establishes the RTCC, its overall objectives
are to carry out transport planning of the BHMR, in order to ensure that transport plans and programs
by the State and related Municipalities are compatible with metropolitan plans, to define transport
policy and standards, to prioritize investments and to coordinate transport investment expenditures.
11.          Composition. RTCC will be chaired by a State Secretary, and will include the Secretary
of Transport of the Municipality of BH and the Mayors of the BHMR who will adhere to the "conv6nio".
The convenio includes a specific clause to be signed by the mayor of each of the participating BHMR
municipalities. Adherence to the convenio will facilitate future State funding in the municipalities.
12.          Organization. RTCC's structure will include two bodies: (a) an Executive Committee
(EC) composed of the State Secretary of Metropolitan Transport who will act as the Chairman or
President, the Secretary of Transport of the Municipality of BH who will act as secretary of the EC,
the State Coordinator for Assistance to the Municipalities for Public Transport, and the State
Coordinator for Planning and Management, the mayors representing the municipalities in each of the
six sub-regions defined in the convenio, and the presidents of the operating agencies STU-BH,
BHTRANS, DER-MG and bus operator associations; and (b) the Grupo Permanente de Planejamento
Integrado (GPPI) which will act as the technical secretariat for the RTCC. GPPI would be headed by
a permanent Executive Secretary. It will be the responsibility of the president to convene the EC's
meetings. GPPI would organize the meeting and prepare their agenda based on suggestions received
from EC's members.
13.          Municipal Subregions. As mentioned above, up to six groups of municipalities would
be formed, consisting of neighboring cities with common transport interests. Each group would
deliberate about transport and traffic management issues within their respective areas, and would elect
a mayor to represent it at the EC.
14.          State/City Permanent Planning Committee. (Grupo Permanente de Planejamento
Integrado - GPPI). Composed of representatives from CBTU and from the "Prefeitura' of Belo Horizonte
transport and traffic management agencies, the planning committee would deal with selected items
affecting City and State. Meetings would be held every two weeks, or more frequently if needed.



- 44 -                               ANNEX 3
Representatives from other areas or agencies and independent professionals may be invited for
discussion on specific issues.
15.          Executive Secretary. The role of the Executive Secretary will be to provide support to
the RTCC and to see that decisions are properly implemented. This function would be carried out by
a SMG-appointed representative. Revisions of the Transport Plan, tactical studies concerning specific
items within the transport system, periodic checking of plans and programs against strategic
guidelines, promotion of specific events for information interchange with other sectors of the
metropolitan administration, and execution of surveys and studies to support RTCC decisions, are some
of the tasks to be managed by the Executive Secretary.
1 6.         The RTCC structure would be funded through State (50 percent) and Municipal (50
percent) grants. Total funding requirements would be defined by the Executive Secretary no later than
August of each year, to be submitted for General Assembly approval or modification at its regular
meeting in September. Decisions by consensus would be preferred, with decision by voting as
necessary. Mayors would rotate as Chairpersons of the municipal groups.
17.         It will be a dated covenant that SMG and MBH establish a formal Regional Transport
Coordination Commission not later than a year after loan effectiveness. It was agreed that
BHTRANS/DER-MG will ensure that bus routes will be re-routed to the stations of the system and that
such re-routing will occur as each new station or segment of the Santa Inds - Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link
becomes available for operation. It was also agreed that BHTRANS/DER-MG will curb the use of illegal
bus operations especially if they serve routes parallel to the rail lines. Finally, it was agreed that the
State should not later than 1 2 months after effectiveness, submit evidence to the Bank that financing
mechanisms are in place to ensure coverage of the MG Entity's operating subsidy if any.
Figure 3.1: Institutional Framework of the Urban Transport Sector in BHMR
Federal Government                State                    Municipality
Transport                    Sec. of
Ministry                 Transport and                 Prefeitura
Public Works
CBTU                       DER-MG
Directorate of
STU-BH                  | Metropolitan                BHTRANS
Transport
AMBEL



- 45 -                               ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT
A. Background
1.          In an effort to increase private sector participation in the project, CBTU has met with
the Chamber of Commerce, associations of civil works contractors, equipment manufacturers and real
estate specialists. The latter indicated that they are interested in exploring mechanisms for developing
real estate in and around the stations, and have initiated a series of meetings with CBTU and STU-BH
personnel to examine the most suitable sites. In general, the associations indicated that there is need
for some changes in municipal legislation to capitalize on the additional floor space created by new
buildings in the aerial space of the right-of-way and surrounding areas. STU-BH already has a few
tentative programs of rental of station space and advertising but this should be given more attention
as a revenue source.
2.           Although there are at least two projects for the development of shopping areas and for
apartment buildings, the participants indicated that they are reluctant to commit themselves until they
see some progress in the works of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link. The general consensus was also that
in view of the very high cost of credit to buy houses, it is unlikely that there would be a substantial
number of buyers. Participants asked the pre-appraisal mission whether the Bank could help with
housing credits as it was done in previous urban development loans. The representatives of the
associations indicated that they are interested in exploring mechanisms to develop real estate in and
around the stations and asked STU-BH personnel to provide them with more detailed data on the most
interesting sites. They also indicated that in the past the long delays in the completion of STU-BH
works make any substantial investments in real estate in the surrounding areas very risky. Bank
financing of the proposed project changes the picture and will create incentives for private sector
participation but they want to wait until the project is in progress.
B. Recommendations
3.           To examine the financial instruments which can encourage private participation in the
construction and operation of selected parts of the mass transit systems, CBTU has created a high-
level working group of entrepreneurs and financiers. Many aspects of this program appear to be
appropriate for private or joint public/private development, which could result in considerable savings.
Station development is the most obvious, but consideration should also be given to leasing of some
existing stations and transfer points for private sector development and operation. Disposition of
excess railway land and air rights would also be explored. CBTU has invited a high-level group including
respected outsiders such as elected officials, investment bankers, prominent developers, civil works
contractors, and Chamber of Commerce representatives, to explore this as well as other ways to
"capture" some of the added value of railway real estate development and prepare proposals for
inclusion in the program.
4.     Since the project involves a decentralization and therefore a change of asset ownership, it was
agreed that any concessions to the private sector should be made preferably after the transfer of
ownership. On the basis of the above, it was agreed between CBTU and the Bank that to foster the
participation of the private sector in the system, the State/municipality shareholder's agreement will
contain a clause which will require that the State shall cause the MG Entity to offer at least four
invitations to bid for private sector exploitation of trains, station space, aerial space, parking areas,
automatic ticket collection and other areas within one year of the transfer.



- 46 -                               ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT COMPONENT
1.           General. The CBTU Belo Horizonte subdivision system (STU-BH) has a network of 18.2
km of trackage (Map IBRD 26914) organized in one corridor from Eldorado to Santa Ines which was
inaugurated in stages starting in August 1986. It is electrified, with double, broad gauge 1 .60 m) track
for exclusive passenger services. The 5.0 km extension from Santa Inds to S3o Paulo is currently under
construction, infrastructure works are expected to be completed by December 1995. The project has
been designed to foster intermodal integration of STU-BH system with the bus network. It consists of
the construction of four new stations in the Eldorado to S3o Paulo section and of a 7.0 km extension
of the electrified system from S3o Paulo to Vilarinho, with five new stations. It also includes the
addition of bus transfer facilities and road accesses to stations to enhance intermodal integration in
the area of influence of STU-BH. A brief description of the investments included in the project is
presented in the next paragraphs.
2.           Civil Works. A summary of the main works is shown in Table 5.1 and described below:
(a)   Intermodal Integration. The works to be implemented under this program
consist of: (i) the Integrated Terminals program designed to improve the
intermodal integration of STU-BH system with urban buses serving the
metropolitan region, and entails the construction of three integrated terminals
(Jose C. Silveira, S3o Paulo and Vilarinho). The terminals will facilitate and
speed the transfer of passengers between bus and rail modes thus minimizing
overall passenger trip times. They consist of bus roadways, parking and
passenger queuing areas and are an integral part of the rail stations; (ii) the
Road Accesses program, aimed at improving the road accesses to all STU-BH
stations, consisting of: (a) traffic engineering measures such as signals, signs
and revised intersection layouts; and (b) bus access improvements such as
construction of short road links missing in the existing network, busways, bus
lanes, and shelters for bus passengers; (iii) the Accesses for Pedestrians
Program would consist of the construction of sidewalks and pedestrian
over/underpasses to improve convenience and reduce walking times to and
from STU-BH stations; and (iv) the Road Traffic Control Program includes: (a)
an area-wide traffic circulation scheme (a centralized signal control system)
controlling some 350 signalized intersections; (b) the provision of a radio
operated bus locator control system; and (c) upgrading of Route 710, providing
improved road access to the Jose C. Silveira terminal. The proposed works,
including contingencies, amount to about US$18.6 million or 9 percent of the
total cost of the project.
(b)   Passenger Stations. The existing 1 1 passenger stations in the Eldorado-Santa
Ines section, which were built during the period 1 983-1 994, are functional and
of modern design, they are well maintained and can cope with the existing and
projected passenger demand. The passenger stations program calls for the
construction of nine new stations. This component envisages expenditures,
including contingencies, of about US$24.0 million or 1 2 percent of total project
cost.



- 47 -                               ANNEX 5
(c)   Bridges, Road Viaducts and Pedestrian Over/underpasses. The existing right-of-
way of the STU-BH is fenced and is not subject to road traffic interferences.
This program is designed to eliminate road and pedestrian interferences in the
new section to Vilarinho and entails the construction of four bridges, two road
viaducts (one in the Horto-Sao Paulo section) and six pedestrian
over/underpasses (one in Eldorado-Santa Ines section). The cost of these
works, including contingencies, has been estimated at about US$21.3 million
or 11 percent of total project cost.
(d)   Administrative Building. The program includes the construction of a building for
STU-BH administration. Currently, STU-BH rents office space in various
buildings for its activities. The cost of these works has been estimated at
US$2.6 million including contingencies.
3.           Permanent Way. The double, broad gauge ( 1.60 m) track in the existing Eldorado-Santa
Inds Line has a minimum radius of 160 m, maximum grades of 3 percent, and is laid with 57 kg/m
welded rails. Sleepers are monoblock of pre-stressed concrete with elastic rail fastenings laid on
crushed stone ballast. The track is in good condition and permits speeds up to 90 km/h. The Permanent
Way program included in the project entails: (a) the provision of track materials for the section from
Santa Inds to Sao Paulo (5.0 km); and (b) the construction of 7.0 km of electrified, double, broad
gauge (1.60 m) track extension from Sao Paulo to Vilarinho. The track layout also calls for the
construction of a 225 m tunnel. The track would have maximum grades of 3 percent, minimum radius
of 300 m, and the same standards as the existing track in operation. These works also include the
construction of fences along the new right-of-way. The realization of these works would require land
expropriation and resettlement to be able to carry out the proposed works in the Sao Paulo, Dona Clara
and Vilarinho areas. The proposed works, including contingencies, have been estimated to cost about
US$51.6 million or 26 percent of the total project cost.
4.           Systems. A summary description of the systems currently operated by STU-BH and
related components included in the project are presented below:
(a)   Electrification Program. The electric energy is generated and distributed by
CEMIG which in turn feeds two sub-stations for the operations of the STU-BH
system. The network of overhead contact lines with power supplied at 3.0 kV
DC is well maintained. The two sub-stations are strategically located in the
Cidade Industrial and Carlos Prates areas. There are section cabins to reduce
the effects of voltage drops and sectionalize the line. The entire system is
telecommanded through the operational control center (CCO). The electric
systems are well maintained. This program includes: (i) the installation of 7.0
km of overhead catenary (double line) with 3 kV DC and motorized switches;
(ii) 7.0-km transmission cables of 6.6 kV; and (ii) the construction of one sub-
station close to Vilarinho station, and one sectionalizing cabin at Sao Paulo.
These works, including contingencies, have been estimated to cost US$7.1
million or 4 percent of total project cost.
(b)   Signaling Program. The existing signaling system in the corridor includes the
following components: (i) the Centralized Traffic Control (CTC), which allows
a Central Operator to set routes for trains by controlling eight remote interlocks
and to monitor headways and train positions; (ii) Relay Interlocks, consisting
of ten signaling relay rooms located at selected passenger stations that confirm
the vital interlocking relay circuits for the traffic safety of STU-BH's trains are
correct and would allow local control of switches in case of failure in the link



- 48 -                               ANNEX 5
to the CTC; and (iii) the Automatic Train Control (ATC), consisting of special
equipment such as transmitters along the track and a cab signaling system on
board of the Electric Multiple Units (EMUs) that controls train speeds within
safety limits. The existing signaling system is not reliable, however, due to
problems of old design and equipment with limited capacity. As a result, traffic
is supplement-controlled via telephone communications. This program includes:
(i) the replacement of the existing CTC system from Eldorado to Sao Paulo; (ii)
the installation of vital interlocking relay circuits in the 5.0-km section from
Santa Ines to S5o Paulo with materials and equipment already in stock and
specific connections to the new Entroncamento and Vila Oeste stations; and
(iii) the supply and installation of a new system in the 6.5-km extension Sao
Paulo - Vilarinho, including CTC, ATC and interlocking relays. The cost of these
works, including contingencies, have been estimated at US$15.6 million or 8
percent of total project cost.
(c)   Telecommunications Program. The telecommunications are carried out by a
special underground cable along the right-of-way. A radio system links the CCO
with trains, stations, and maintenance workshops. In addition, the system
provides telephone communications for general administration and operations,
CCTV (Closed Circuits TV) at 11 stations, and supports clock and public
address sub-systems in the stations. All communications are recorded. The
project includes the installation of: (i) a telephone central station; Jii) a
telecommunication system for the section Sao Paulo - Vilarinho, with the same
characteristics of the existing system operating in the corridor; and (iii) a
ticketing control systems in all 20 stations from Eldorado to Vilarinho. Including
contingencies, this program has been estimated to cost US$5.3 million or 3
percent of total project cost.
5.           Workshop Equipment. The STU-BH network is served by workshops strategically
located at Eldorado and Carlos Prates terminals and provide light maintenance and one year revisions
to the EMU fleet. A maintenance facility for heavy overhaul of the EMUs is under construction at
Matadouro, close to the Sao Paulo terminal. This program includes the provision of miscellaneous
equipment for this workshop and maintenance equipment for the permanent way and systems (Table
5.2). Including contingencies, this component is estimated to cost US$8.3 million or 4 percent of total
project cost.
6.           Rolling Stock. The existing passenger train fleet of STU-BH's EMUs consists of seven
broad gauge (1 .60 m) units. There is another new unit being tested, and seven more units are being
manufactured. These units are expected to be delivered early in 1 997. Each unit is composed of four
cars (two with motors and two trailers). The units are of stainless steel and have 60 and 71 seats (cars
with motors and trailer cars respectively) with a maximum capacity of 1,278 passengers per EMU.
Their main characteristics are: 276 kw per engine (2.2 Megawatts), electric controlled, 3 kv overhead
feeder, dynamic brakes and designed to run at a maximum speed of 90 km/h. Currently, there are six
units in service. There is an average fleet availability of 86 percent. Five of these units have an average
of 1.0 million travelled km, well over the 0.6 million km recommended by the manufacturers. These
units have never had general overhauls. It has been established that in order to cope with the forecast
demand of 322,000 passengers per day soon after project opening, and operate with train schedules
and head-ways of four and eight minutes during rush and non-rush hours, STU-BH would need a fleet
of 25 EMUs. The rolling stock program has been designed to increase the transport capacity of the
system. To complement the existing fleet, the program includes: (a) the general overhaul of 5 EMUs;
and (b) the acquisition of 10 EMUs. This component, including contingencies, is estimated to cost
US$25.6 million or 1 3 percent of total project cost.



- 49 -                              ANNEX 5
7.           Engineering Designs. Final engineering designs for the construction of permanent way
and the two new stations at Jose Silveira and Minas Shopping in the Santa Ines-Sao Paulo section
have been completed. Design works for the new stations at Vila Oeste and Entroncamento in the
Eldorado-Santa Inds section and for the extension from Sao Paulo to Vilarinho, as well as those
required for the Intermodal Integration Program (under the responsibility of BHTRANS) are underway.
It is scheduled that by appraisal, STU-BH would have final engineering designs available for all
components included in the first year of project implementation. Technical specifications for the
acquisition of rolling stock is already available, and those required for the provision of the
electrification, signaling, and telecommunications systems, and maintenance equipment are
programmed to be ready by mid-1995.
8.           Supervision. The project includes the provision of consultants (2,350 staff/months) for
the implementation and supervision of each of the project components mentioned above. The cost of
these services have been estimated at US$5.6 million including contingencies or 3 percent of total
project cost.



- 50 -                               ANNEX 5
Table 5.1: Man Civil Works
PlI                             And  P_. T*nd      Trafic Idd.  Rokd  Ovap_
___________________Cmn,strmalm Emd' sutAesw. Acom  ____  COMM_i  Viduab
IA) ELDORADO - SAO PAULO                                     X           1      2
ELDORADO
CIDADE INDUSTRIAL                         X
VILA OESTE                X               X
GAMELEIRA                                       X
ENTRONCAMENTO             X
CALAFATE                                        X
CARLOS PRATES                                   X
LAGOINHA                                  X     X
CENTRAL
SANTA EFIGENIA                            X
SANTA TEREZA                              X
HORTO                                     X
SANTA INES                                X
J.CANDIDO DA SILVEIRA     X               X            X
MINAS SHOPPING            X               X
SAO PAULO
IB) SAO PAULO - VILARINHO                                          4     2      4
SAO PAULO                          X                  X
DONA CLARA                X
HELIOPOLIS                x
FLORAMAR                  X
VII ARINWCX __X
Table 5.2: List of Workshop Equipment
Estimated Cost
Item                                              Quamiity            (US$ 000)
Overhead Crane                                    3                             300
Truck Turntable                                   12                            300
Underground Lathe                                 1                            1,600
Mechanical Lathe                                  1                             400
Axle Press                                        1                             200
Compressor                                        1                              40
Audio System                                      1                              40
Ramp Spring Tester                                1                               10
Radio Frequency Generator                         1                               10
Motorized Rail Car w/Crane                        1                             700
Tamping Aligner and Leveling Unit                 1                            1,400
Trolleys                                          4                               20
Lathe                                             1                             300
Jacks                                             2                              100
Washing Cabin for EMU's                           1                             150
Track Mobile                                      2                             800
Ballast Regulator                                 1                             500
Total                                                                       a/ 6,870
a/ Without contingencies.



- 51 -                         ANNEX 5
Figure 5.1: Existing and Proposed Stations
STATIONS                    DISTANCE BE1WEEN
STATIONS - km
O ELDORADO
1                                 1.609
OI CIDADE INDUSTRIAL
1                                 1.627
O VILA OESTE
1                                 2.225
Ol GAMELEIRA
1                                 1.115
O ENTRONCAMENTO
1                                 1.006
O CALAFATE
1                                 1.650
* CARLOS PRATES
I                                 1.678
* LAGOINHA
1                                 1.564
* CENTRAL
1                                 1.550
O SANTA EFIGENIA
1                                 1.047
O SANTA TEREZA
1                                 1.677
O HORTO
1                                 1.846
O SANTA INES
1                                 1.364
O JOSE C. SILVEIRA
1                                 1.793
O MINAS SHOPPING
1                                 1.112
O SAO PAULO
1                                 1.020
O DONA CLARA
1                                 1.380
O HELIOPOLIS
1                                 1.540
O FLORAMAR
1                                 1.800
O VILARINHO
O - Existing Stations   0 - Proposed Stations



- 52 -                              ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND TRAFFIC SAFETY COMPONENT
A. Background
1.           This section describes the environmental and traffic safety component of the proposed
project which includes:
(a)   the design of a vehicle inspection and maintenance program;
(b)   the development of a comprehensive traffic management and control program
for the BHMR with emphasis on the area of influence of the STU-BH; and
(c)   the installation of a centralized traffic control system.
In addition, the proposed project includes studies and technical assistance to support improvements
in motor vehicle emissions control and the development of an integrated transport/environmental
strategy for the BHMR.
2.           The electrification of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link would result in direct and indirect
benefits concerning air quality. Direct benefits would result from the reduction in auto and bus traffic
due to the new train links; the design of an inspection/maintenance program will set the foundations
for the implementation of a comprehensive program which will be the first step towards curbing vehicle
emissions in the BHMR. The development of a traffic management, control, and safety program would
also have a beneficial effect on vehicle emissions and accidents especially in and around existing at-
grade crossings which would be grade separated. Indirect air quality benefits would result from the
development and implementation of an integrated transport and air quality strategy, and from
strengthening of vehicle emissions planning, regulation and enforcement.
B. The Environmental Sub-Component
3.          Inspection and maintenance (l/M) serves two purposes in a vehicle emissions control
program. First, it helps to identify vehicles in which maladjustments or other mechanical problems are
causing higher emissions than necessary. Second, it ensures that the emission control equipment on
vehicles so equipped remains in place and operational, so that the emissions benefits of that equipment
are realized. The first purpose applies mostly to older vehicles without emission controls; for emission-
controlled vehicles, the second is much more important. An effective l/M program is essential to ensure
that the emissions benefits projected for the adoption of new vehicle emissions standards are actually
attained. The project finances the design of an l/M program and will recommend how the l/M program
can be implemented through concessions to the private sector.
C. The Traffic Safety Program
4.           The objective of the traffic management component is to design and put in place a
number of traffic management and safety policies and investments which, when coupled with the rail
and air quality component, will enhance the quality of public transport, reduce congestion, and greatly
improve safety.
5.           The Traffic management component of the proposed project would comprise the design
of: (a) the Traffic Control subcomponent; and (b) the Traffic Safety subcomponent. They are described
below in detail.



- 53 -                               ANNEX 6
Cl. The Traffic Control Subcomponent
6.           Semi-actuated Traffic Lights. Electro-mechanical "old style" traffic light controllers make
coordination among separate locations difficult without interconnections. In some locations the causes
of accidents have been traced to this limitation. Such is the case, for example, with the intersection
between a main road with high traffic volume and a very low volume secondary road, which however
presents significant flows at peak periods. During off-peak hours, long periods of red for the main road,
without a corresponding traffic flow from the side street, often prompt drivers to "go through" the red
light, which will eventually lead to an accident. There are about 75 such locations across the city area,
which require replacement of the existing traffic signal controller by a semi-actuated model, with loop
detectors, which will be able to adequately handle demand variations throughout the day. Twenty
other unsignalized intersections require implementation of semi-actuated traffic light systems, some
with a cycle that will include phases to accommodate pedestrian crossing movements.
C2. The Traffic Safety Subcomponent
7.           Traffic Management and Safety. An important objective of the project is to reduce
congestion and improve safety. A new traffic signal system is proposed. However, a more definitive
safety program needed to be defined to complement the on-going efforts of the Municipality. As a
minimum, this program includes:
(a)   a description of current safety activities;
(b)   identification of most serious accident locations and their deficiencies, and
selection of those to be included in the project;
(c)   definition of a program to specifically address the high rate of pedestrian
accidents;
(d)   approximate costs and implementation schedule to correct the deficiencies in
(b) and implement the program in (c). Identify the agency responsible for
implementation of the program(s); and
(e)   prepare designs for any civil work required.
This program is summarized in documents which were submitted to the Bank and the proposed
component was based on that program.
C3. Policy Issues
8.           The importance of appropriate policy measures to achieve the ultimate objective of
reducing the rate of motorization in BHMR and consequent delays, pollution, and excessive use of fuel
was emphasized by the Bank. BHTRANS will develop an action plan and TOR for studies which call
for (among other issues identified in the appraisal process) the following:
(a)   a parking policy and implementation plan which correctly charges for the use
of valuable downtown space for "automobile storage" and provides a
disincentive for people to drive to the central area rather than use public
transport. This implies the need for a comprehensive, safe and comfortable
public transport system into which the public and private sector are currently
investing hundreds of millions of dollars. The action plan calls for specific



- 54 -                               ANNEX 6
implementation of the recommendations of the parking plan by the third or
fourth year of the project with some measures beginning earlier;
(b)    pricing mechanisms which will ultimately be the only real deterrent to
continued automobile traffic growth in the central area. Experience throughout
the world indicates that the effect of metros is temporary if at all; the metro
provides the alternative mode which allows appropriate pricing and provides
some disincentive to drive into the central area. Without the ultimate achieve-
ment of a reduction in the growth of automobile traffic in the city, the
investment in the metro is questionable. A pricing policy and plan of imple-
mentation is to be developed as part of the project, and implementation will
begin as the metro is nearing completion; and
(c)   frequently circulating vehicles (taxis, buses, government vehicles) contribute
to pollution in the city and provide a controllable environment within which to
test the value of alternative fuels as a measure of reducing harmful emissions.
A pilot program using Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) will be developed and
initiated, with the objective of testing the proposal of not allowing buses or
taxis to operate in the city center unless they use clean-burning fuels.



- 55 -                              ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY STUDIES
1.           This Annex describes the studies and training to be undertaken as a basis for the policy
and institutional development action plan. The studies will be divided in three categories: (a) studies
which are only CBTU related; (b) studies to enhance modal integration; and (c) studies which examine
the decentralization and financing mechanisms aspects. The training component should contribute to
the skill upgrading of staff at all levels through recycling, as well as training in-house and abroad.
2.           A list of the proposed studies and training is presented below. Draft Terms of Reference
for each study were agreed at appraisal and were ready by negotiations.
A. CBTU Related Studies
3.           Preparation and implementation of a manpower development and organization plan with
staff rationalization. This study will review the organization of each of the new systems by functional
area and as a whole. It will provide job descriptions for each of the main posts and a strategy to
rationalize the staff. It will review the salary scale and benefits and, based on equivalent positions in
the private sector, propose a new salary scale and a chronogram for its implementation. It will also
define the training requirements and recycling to be undertaken under the training component. Finally,
it will propose a new admissions policy based on the needs of the new companies.
4.           Preparation of a cost accounting, tariff, management information systems, and financial
management study. At this stage, it is clear that the existing systems need a good costing group which
is capable of determining the long-run variable costs of the system and for that purpose separate the
fixed costs from the variable costs. In addition, the accounting and finance directorate should be
equipped with the required management information systems to allow a timely analysis of the costs.
Finally, the Planning Department should be prepared to estimate and operate on a regular basis the
tariff schedule, integrated tariffs, multi-trip tariffs, etc., using the information from the cost systems,
information from the competitive modes, and socio-economic constraints.
5.           Preparation of an action plan (and its implementation) to improve the management of
stocks. The system should have a computerized inventory management which will allow internal
control and prevent lack of spares due to poor programming. This action plan should be implemented
soon and will contribute to better rolling stock availability.
6.           Preparation of proposals to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private
sector. This study should examine the operational activities which could be subcontracted to the
private sector at competitive prices (at least two competing sources) and indicate the staff reductions
which can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are subcontracted.
7.           Action and revenue plan through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate
development on CBTU's real estate and action plan for their implementation. This plan should indicate
very clearly what are the non-operating revenues which each of the CBTU new systems can earn
through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate development. The study should provide
a detailed estimate of income and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be implemented,
i.e., in-house or through outside parties.



- 56 -                               ANNEX 7
8.           Marketing STU-BH's Image. After the system is decentralized, management must
undertake a marketing campaign to improve STU-BH's image and attract new ridership. This study will
discuss proposals to improve STU-BH's image, the marketing plan to implement them, and the
incentives to attract new ridership.
B. Modal Integration Studies
9.           A study to update the Transport portion of the Master Plan for BH with emphasis on
route rationalization, modal and tariff integration. The BHMR Master Plan should be updated to account
for the BH Municipality Master Plan and recent changes in land use. Basic guidelines for the
development of future systems must be prepared.
10.          Feasibility study and preliminary design of integration terminals in the BHMR, with
identification of private sector participation. Modal integration is one of the main priorities of this
project. The lack of integration terminals has not facilitated modal integration. Exploration of integration
terminals by the private sector may induce rerouting of buses to the railway stations, thereby reducing
congestion. This study will examine main integration terminals in the BHMR and identify opportunities
for their management by the private sector.
C. Financing Mechanisms
11.          Financing mechanisms study with recommendations on how to cover operating deficits
and capital investment, action plan and chronogram for implementation. This study will identify the
financing mechanisms available and those proposed to cover the operating subsidies and capital
investment requirements of STU-BH. Federal, State and Municipality contributions should be clearly
identified. The study should make concrete recommendations and prepare a draft of Decrees to be
discussed by the State legislature to provide the funds required. The study should also discuss how
these funds should be allocated and the role of the RTCC in assigning these subsidies.
D. Decentralization Studies
12.          Preparation and implementation of a plan to hand over the subdivisions, including the
legal, financial and institutional arrangements. This study will produce a detailed action plan for the
transfer of the CBTU subdivision to the State. In the action plan, all legal, financial and institutional
arrangements to be undertaken at each step will be identified. Preparatory work, such as inventory of
assets of the subdivision, will be done at this stage.
E. Management Information Systems
13.          This component is intended to provide the new CBTU system with the basic software
and hardware required to perform the needed accounting, financial management and planning
functions.
F. Training
14.          Training will take place at all levels of the organization as proposed in the
recommendations of the Manpower Development studies. The training may consist of in-house, on-the-
job training, or visits and courses abroad in specific areas.



- 57 -                              ANNEX 7
G. Implementation Program
15.          Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan:
(a)   Decentralization Action Plan of the STU-BH System. In carrying out the
decentralization of the system, CBTU and the State shall:
(i)    no later than September 30, 1996 complete a study and an action
plan for the transfer of the STU-BH system to the State. In the action
plan, all legal, financial and institutional arrangements to be
undertaken, as well as the inventory of assets of STU-BH, will be
included (CBTU, State);
(ii)   no later than September 30, 1996 complete a study which will
determine the long-run variable costs of the STU-BH system, using the
most appropriate methods available, and will propose the creation of
a data base for more accurate costing and recommend a tariff system
which is cost-based and takes into account modal integration and
affordability issues (CBTU, State);
(iii)  no later than October 31, 1996 complete a study and an action plan
for the setting up of a cost accounting system and management
information systems for the STU-BH system (State, CBTU);
(iv)   no later than October 31, 1996 complete a study on the financing
mechanisms required to cover operating deficits and capital
investment and propose an action plan and chronogram for their
implementation in the STU-BH system. Federal, State and Municipal
contributions should be clearly identified (CBTU, State); and
(v)    no later than October 31, 1996 complete the preparation of contract
plans between STU-BH or its successors and the State. This study is
intended to prepare a detailed contract plan document with basic
performance and financial targets and note the obligations of each of
the parties (State).
(b)   Management Action Plan of the STU-BH System. In carrying out a management
action plan to improve the performance of the system, CBTU and the State
shall:
(i)    no later than June 30, 1 996 prepare and implement a manpower
development and organization plan to streamline the management and
operations staff in STU-BH, to propose concise job descriptions, and
to staff them accordingly (State, CBTU);
(ii}   no later than June 30, 1 996 prepare and implement an action plan to
improve the management of stocks for STU-BH which will include a
computerized inventory management to improve internal control and
prevent lack of spares due to poor programming (State, CBTU);
(iii)  no later than December 31, 1996 prepare and implement an action
plan to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private



- 58 -                              ANNEX 7
sector. This study should examine the operational activities which
could be subcontracted to the private sector at competitive prices (at
least two competing sources) and indicate the staff reductions which
can be achieved and potential operating savings if those activities are
subcontracted (State, CBTU);
(iv)   no later than December 31, 1996 prepare and implement an action
and revenue plan through promotion of station space, advertising and
real estate development on the STU-BH. This plan should indicate
clearly what are the non-operating revenues which STU-BH can earn
through promotion of station space, advertising and real estate
development. The study should provide a detailed estimate of income
and costs and suggest how the proposed plan should be implemented,
i.e., in-house or through outside parties (State); and
(v)    no later than December 31, 1 996 prepare an action plan to market the
STU-BH. After the system is decentralized, management must
undertake a marketing campaign to improve the STU-BH system's
image and attract new ridership. This study will discuss proposals to
improve the system's image, the marketing plan to implement them
and the incentives to attract new ridership (State).
(c)   Modal Integration Action Plan of the STU-BH system. In carrying out the modal
integration component of the project, the CBTU and the State shall:
(i)    no later than March 31, 1996 complete a study and plan of action to
integrate STU-BH and the bus system. CBTU's integration with the
bus system is an objective already set by the State. This study will
propose alternatives for the physical, organizational, and financial
merger of the two systems. It will make recommendations to the State
on how to proceed with the merger (State. CBTU); and
(ii)   no later than December 31, 1996 complete a study to update a
proposed master plan for integration of transport services in the BHMR
(the Master Plan) with emphasis on route rationalization, modal and
tariff integration. The Master Plan will be updated to emphasize the
integration between buses and the rail system. If need be, an origin-
destination traffic survey will also be included. Basic guidelines for the
development of new systems and integration terminals must be.
outlined.
(d)   Training Action Plan of the STU-BH system. In carrying out the training action
plan of the project, the CBTU and the State shall:
(i)    no later than June 30, 1 996 initiate a training action plan at all levels
of the STU-BH organization taking into account the recommendations
of the manpower development and organization study.



- 59 -                        ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(see following pages)



TbAk 8. 1: Detulad Coat Eudrnataiw
lilaakdo,ar of Coot
auantity                          UnIL                         Blass Coat                                  Total bicludlng Contingancias            hncludln Contlnogancla  Pa"anwio"a
Unit.                                                          Coat                                                                                                             Foreign  Local   Dutaa Pih For Tax
IN,    100     1917,  106l  IM     2000  2001  TOTAL    (US$)    19*5  ION    19117  1M    1900  2000  2001   TOWla  10   1966   1097   ION   ION   2000   2001   Tolai  Comip.   Coni. Tax"    1%) 1%) 1%)
I-LAND EXPROPRIATIl           %      4%     40%    20%                                1 4.600.000   1.84   1.84  0 92   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   460    2.07  2.11   1.08  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    20      0.00   5.26    0.63 10   0  12
2 -CML VVRK5                                                                                        0.00   6.09  17.62  17.84  10.44  3.30  1.96  57.20  0.00  7.00  20.75  21.54  12.92  418S  2.54  88.94    27.72  41,21    834
2.1 . l8k i8f Jo           ...                                                                     0.00  0.00   3.07   5.21  1 tO  3.10  1.86   16.1  0.00   0.00  3.62   6.26   2 34  3.93  2.42   18.68    9.66    6.93    2.23
-k6OW tda4l                  ~0 90                     1.80   0.30                 3    888667   0.00   0.00  0.60   1.20   0.20  0 00  0.00   200    0.00  0.00   0.71   1.45  0.25  0.00  0 00    2.40     0.84    1056   0.29  10 35  12
-Road Accesse                                                                                    0.00   0.00   2.24  3.67   0 45  0.00  0.00   20    0.00  0.00   2.64  4.43   0.56  0.00  0.00    7.62     2.67   4.96    0.91
Traim Eonvenwyr          %                            0      0                            .000  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.30   0.45  0.00  0.00    0.75  0.00   0.00  0 00   0.36  0.56   0.00  0 00   0.92     0 32    0.60   0.11 10 35    12
Road Aecesses          -A                      0     60%                          1  5.610.000  0.00  0.00   2 24  3.37   0 00  0.00  0.00    5.81  0.00   0 00  2 64   4 08  0.00  0.00   0.00   171     2.35    4.36   0680  1 0 35  1 2
.Pod*1U1Ac6sse          Z40%                           60%                          1   565000   0.00   0.00  0.23   0.34   0.00  0.00  000    0.57   0 00  0.00   0 27  0.41   0.00  0.00  0 00    0.68     024    044     0.05  10 35  12
-Road Traffic Ca"-t                                                                              0 00   0.00  0 00   0 00   1.24  3 10  1.88    0.20  0 00  0.00   0 00  0.00   1 53  3.93  2.42    7.U11    5.91   1.97    0.95
Trafftc UdfCor*tcl                                          20%   50%    30%      1 5,000.000   0 00  0.00   0 00  0.0     0    25     0      00 000      000   0.00   0 00   1.24  3 17  1.95   8.6      47      159    06    075     2
Bus Con6ol                                                  20%A  50%    30%      1  1.200,000  0.00  0 00   0.00  0.00   0.24  0.60  0.36    1.20  0 00   0.00  0 00   0.00  0.30  0.76   0 47   1.62     1 14    0.35   01 1SI0 75   1 2
2.2 - Stalons                                                                                     0 00   3.01  6.02   6.02   5 02  0.00  0.00  20.08   0.00  3 46   7.09   7.26  6.21  0 00  0.00   24.01     8.865  15.16   2.9.4
______________              un_            1 35  2 70   2 70    2 25                 9  2111,111   0.00  2 85   5 70  5 70   4 75  0.00  0.00   19.00  0.00   3 27  6 71   6.88  5688  0.00   0.00  22.74     7.00   14.78   2.73 10 35   12
-Eoiwnschc   -                1.~~~~~~~~65  3 30  3 30  2.75           1 1    96.364  00DO   0 16  0.32   0 32  0.27   0.00  0.00   1.06   0.00  0 16   0 37  0.38   0 33  0.00  0 00    1.27     0.89   0.38    0 22  10 70  17
2.3 -Brddges wndPed ORP    bnd    1- I00         2680   2.10   1 10                 7   2,557.143  0 00  2.56   7 16  5.37   2 81  0.00  0.00   17.00  0 00  2894   6.43   6 46  3.4a  0 00  0.00   21.33     7.47   13 87  -2.56 ~10 35 ~12
2.4 - Admrltrsadve Buldnc                 0 15   0.40   0 30   0 15                  1  2,200,000  0.00  0 33   0.68  0886   0 33  0 00  0 00   2.20   0 00  0.38   1 04   0.60  0.41  0 00  0.00   2I6       0 92    1.70   0 31  10 35  12
2 5 -Superision          _mmnion         98.50 246 25 295.50 187 00 98050 49.25   885      2,000  0 00   0.20  0 48   0 59   0 39  0.20  0.10    1.97  0.00  0 23   0.58  0 71   0.49  0.25  0 13    2.39     0683   1.05    0 29 10 30   1 2
3 - PERMANENT WAY                                                                                   0 00   7 23  18.98  17 34  0.00  0 00  0 00  43.55   0 00  6 31 2252.4         00     .0   00    5.9      290     27.69    6 84
3 i- 9*as8ucSse             In1.00               3 50   2.45                        7   4,221,429  0.00  4.43 1478 10.34    0 00   0 00  0.00  29.55   0.00  5 09  17.40 1248    0.00  0.00  0.00   34.98    12.24  22 73    4.20 10 35   12
3.2 - Su________ers____uc_____e___O.00                                                           2 54  3681   6 35   0 00  0.00  0 00   12.70  0 00  2.92   4 48  7 67   0 00  0 00  0 00   1.07    11.12   3895    2 46 
- Walls                                 1.40   2 10   3 50                         7   250.000  0.00   0.35   0 53  0 88   0.00  0 00  0.00    1.75  0.00  0 40   0 62   1.06  0 00  0.DO  0 00    2.08     0 73    1.35   0 25  10 35  12
- Matenalskr                            24g0   360    6012                             912,500  0 00   2 19  3 29   5.48   0 00  0.00  0.00  10.95   00DO  2 52   3687  6 61   0.00  0.00  0.00   12.99    10.39   2 60    2.21 10 80   17
3.3 - Sieveision          Wmmcc         13000 195.00 32500      -      -  -       650      2,000  0 00  0 26   0.39   0 65  00DO  0.00  0 00    1.30  0 00   0.30  0 46   0 78  0 00   0.00  0.00    1.64    0 54    1 00   0.19  10 35   12
4 -SYSTEMS           ___             ____________________0.24                                             2 34   4 76   4.81  6 12  2.64   2.58  23.49  0 27   2 69  5 60   5 80   7.57  3 35  3.35   28.64    17.14  11 49    4 16
4 1- E.ieIhca8oi                                                                                  0 00  0 80   2.08   1 29  1.72  0 00  0 00    S.9   0 00   0.82  2 46   1.56  2 13  0.00  0.00    7.07     3 97    3.09    1 06
'Cate__   y              L__             ____________               _                             0 00   0.00  1 29   1 29  1 72  0.00  0.00    4.30  0.00   0 00   1.52  1.56   2.13  0.00  0.00    6.20    3.26    1 93    08.3
Ircstalk8on                 ___an   ___       10    2 10   2 80                 7    122 857  0.D0  0 00   0 26   0 26  0 34  0 00  0.00    0.86  0 00   0.00  0 30   0 31   0 43  000O  0 00    1.04    0.36    0.68    0 12  10 35  12
Matoials                                     20      10     807                      491,429  0 00  000O   1 03   1 03  1 38  0 00  0.00    3M4   0.00   0 00   1 22  1 25   1.70  0.00  0 00   .4.1d    2.91    1 25   0.71 10 70    17     0)
'Sustaborsrm__________________                                                                 0 00  0 80   0 80. 0.00   0 00  0.00  0 00    1.80  0 00  0892.  0.84   0 00  0.00  0 00  0.00    1.86     0.69    1 17   0 23         -       0
Instablson                            000 5  0.50                               1  1.500,00   0 00  0 75   0.75   0 00  0.00  0 00  0 00    6.60  0 00   0.88  088s   0.00  0.00   0.00  0 00    1.74    061     1.13   0.21  10 35 12
Materials              SE050                0 50                                1    100,000  000O  0 05   0 00   0.00  000O  0 00  0.00    0.10  0.00   00D6  0 08   0 00  0 00   0 00  0 00   0.12     0.08    0 03   0.02 10 70   1 7
4 2-S  ar     .- S.n                                                                              0 00  1 27   1 91  2 54   3 18  1.81  1891   1.0     00     46   24    37      .8   242 246      15.59     6 04   6 55    2 18
Instahbon,                            120    1 80   2 40   30    108           12    65000      0    71 114       1 52  1.91  1 14   1 14   7.62  0 00   0 88  1 35   1.84  2 36   1 .4  1 49   9.36     3 74    5.61   1 12 10 40   12
Matenals               in0.70                1 05   1 40   1 75 -105   1.05     7    725.fl714.Qj0 00 .51  0 76   1 02  1 27  0 76  0.76    .08  0.00   0 58  0.80   1 23   1.57  0.97  0 99   .24   _5.30     0894    1.06 10 85  17
4.3.- 'f6ecorumneuabocn          ______                                                           0.21  021    0.64  0086   1 07  0.64  0864   4.29   0 24  0.25   0 76   103   1 33  0.62  0.64    5.25     3 88   1 38    0 83
lnstmahim,             Pm       3      35    10C5 ~140     175   1 05  1 05     7    152,857 00   ~05 5    0616  0 21   0.27  0 16  0.16    1.07  0.06   0 09  0 19   0.26  0.33  0.20  0 21    1.31     0.52   0 78    0 16 10 40   12
Matenals               mu     0 35    0 35   1 05   1.40   1 75  1 05  1 05     7    426      01    06     04    0.4    00     .48  0.48    3.22  0 18   0 18  0567   0 78  0.99  0 61   0.63   3.94     3.35    0 59   0 67 10 85   17
4.4 -SAVervslson          mmcrion  15 00  30 00  60.00  60 00  75000_45 00  15 00  300    2,000   0 03  0 06   0.12  0 12   0.15  0 08  0 03    0.80  0 03  0.07   0 14   0.14  0 18  0.11  0 04    0.73     0 25   0.47    0 08  10 35  12
5 -WORKSHOPS                        ___________0.71 071                                                          4 26   1 42  0 00  0.00  0 00    7.10  0 80   0.82  5 02   1 71  0 00   0 00  0.00   8.3.4    6 55    1 79   1 41
5.2 - Eq.ipmeutsst                00     0   0  6       0216800                                  08     08    42     1 37   0.00  0 00  0.00   8.87   0.77  0 78   4 85   1.66  0 00  0.00  000O    8.07     6 46   1.61    1 37 10 80   17
53-Sweresacn    mmcc    1150~~_V 150  69 00_ 23.00_11                            2000   0 02   0 02  0 14   0.05  0.00   0.00  0 00   0.23   0 03  0 03   0.16  0 06   0.00  0 00  0.00   027       .9     01     003    035    2
6- ROLLING STOCK__                    __     _____                                                  4 05   6898  11 04  0 00 000    0.00  0.00   22.07  4.56   6.02  13 00  0 00   0 00  0 00  0 00  26.67    20 14    5 43   4.22
6 1 - Refzurbshcwne,ofEMUs  EMU          2 50   2 50                    -           5   300,000  0 00   0 75   0 75  0 00 0.00    60.0  0 00    1.80  0 00  0 86   0 88  000-00   0   000 o  0.00   1.74     1 40   0 35    0 21 10 80   12
6.2 -AsswenthnofEMUs    . EMU     2 00   3 00   5 00            ___                10  1,997,000  3 99  5 99  9888   0 00   0 00  0 00  0.00   19.97  4 49  6688  11 76   0.00  0 00  0.00  0 00   23.13    18 50   4.63    3 93 10 go 17
63-~~8s-enion   -~~. mm. 3.00    120 00     0    _____ 02000                         00    00      2      000  0.00  000    0 00  00 D    .o     07   02    035-0000      0.00  0 00  0 00   0.0      0.4    05T0          0   51
7-ST-UDIES ANDOPROJECTS     m mmi 338 00 781.00                                    1130    _  ,0       8   15    00 00 0 DO   000    0 00  0 00   2.26   0 76  1 82   0.00 000     0 00  0 00  0 00    2.68    0.80    1868   0.31 10 35   12
- INSTITUTIONAL DFV.       mmc   49700 66600 47700-                               1640     2 000   0889   1 33  0856   0 00  0 00  0.00  0.00    3.28   1 12  1.53   1 12  0.00  00  000 OO0 00      37       15     2.6      4__O    0_2
9 -PROJECT MANAGEMENT       m mon. 44.00   8 8800 220.00 22-00017-600 8800 44 00    800      2,500  0 11   0 22  0.50   0 55  0.44  0 22  0.11    2.20  0.12   0 25  0 65   0.66  0 54  0.28   0 14   2.66     0893    1.73   0 32 10 35 1
TOrAL BASE COST                                                                                     6.63  28.33  66.07  41.96  17.00  6.15  4.65  166.80
P1-YSICAM. CONTINGENCIES                                                                            0.86   2 83  5.91   4 20   1 70  0 62  0 46  1.6.8
SLIB TOTAL                                                                                         9849 31 17   64898  46 16  18 70  6 77  5 11  182.38                                                                                            Z
z
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                                                 0 20   I 37  4.58   4 50  2.33   1 04  0.83  14.98                                                                                             m
x
TOTAL            .9.70                                                                         32.54  68.57  50.66  210   7.1   60     9.4    6.00.46.71.68            31.03  7.61  .04  197.34    66.80  98.04   20.66                c



- 61 -                                  ANNEX 8
Table 8.2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ millions)
AMOUNT OF THE LOAN                  % OF EXPENDITURES
CATEGORY                ALLOCATED {EXPRESSED                 TO BE FINANCED
IN US$ EQUIVALENT)                       _
(1) WORKS
(a) Civil Works                     45,000,000                           65%
(b) Road Traffic Control System      3,500,000                           65%
(c) Rolling Stock                    1,000,000                           65%
(d) Permanent Way and Systems       22,500,000                           75%
(2) GOODS                                6,500,000          100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for other items procured
locally
(3) CONSULTANT'S SERVICES                5,500,000
AND TRAINING
(a) Training Abroad                                     100% of foreign expenditures
(b) Training in Brazil                                  50% of local expenditures
(c) Consultants                                         50% of local expenditures for services of
consultants residing within the territory of the
Guarantor and 100% of foreign expenditures
for services of other consultants
(4) UNALLOCATED                         15,000,000
TOTAL                                    99,000,000
Table 8.3: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
BANK FY           1996         1997          1998          1999          2000         2001
Annual            13.0 a/      25.5          30.0          18.0           7.5          5.0
Cumulative        13.0          38.5         68.5          86.5          94.0         99.0
a/ Including initial deposits into the Special Accounts totaling US$6.0 million.



- 62 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 8.4: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD           ESTIMATED         ESTIMATED         ESTIMATED
FISCAL YEAR     DISBURSEMENTS       CUMULATIVE       CUMULATIVE AS
SEMESTER        PER SEMESTER      DISBURSEMENTS      % OF TOTAL
1996
December 31, 1995               10.0|             10.0|               10
June 30, 1996                    3.0              13.0                13
1997
December31, 1996                 8.0              21.C               21
June30, 1997                    17.5              38.5                39
1998
December 31, 1997               17.5              56.0                57
June 30, 1998                   12.5              68.5                69
1999
December 31, 1998               12.51             81.01               82
June 30, 1999                    5.5              86.5|               87
2000
December 31, 1999                5.51             92.01               93
June 30,2000                     2.0              94.0                95
2001
December 31, 2000                2.01             96.01               97
June 30, 2001                    3.0              99.0               100



Table 8.5: Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts a/
Component           Value     Type of      N' of   Type of Documentsj Bids Prop.f Contract  D~elivey  ntiation
CLot poent        Contrat ooo)Contract |Contracts  Bidding   Ready   |Invited jSignatur iofGoodsbI ofWorks
A - CIVIL WORKS                                                                                             ___
A L A                     18,364   Works         1        ICB      1/96       2/96      5/96                 6/96
* Lot B                   21,229   Works         1        ICB      1/96       2/96      5/96                 6/96
* Lot C                   14,775   Works         1        ICB      1/96       2/96      5/96                 6/96
* Lot D                   11,193   Works         1        ICB      1/96       2/96      5/96                 6196
* Buildinqs               14,962   Works         1        ICB      11/95     12/95      3/96                 4/96
* Viaducts                 4,767   Works         1        ICB      11/95     12/95      3/96                 4/96
* Road Traffic Control     7,883   Works         1       NCB       8/97       9/97      12/98                1/99
* Road Accesses            8,300   Works         1        ICB      7/96       8/96     12/96                 1/97
B - PERMANENT WAY
* Superstructure      |    6,6441 Supp./Works    1        ICB  |   5/96       6/96  T   9/96  |           | 10/96
* Materials                8,4251  Supply I    Several  I ICB  |   5/96   |   6/96  |   9/96  |    1/96
C - SYSTEMS
* Electrification          5,205 Supp.lWorks     1        I CB     7/96       8/96     12/96                 1/97
* Signaling               11,783 Sup.NVorks      1        ICB      1/96       2/96      5/96                 6/96
* Telecommunication        2,802 Supp./Works     1       NCB       11/95     12/95      3/96                4/96
D - WORKSHOPS
* Light Equipments         3,9021  Supply I   Several  I ICB   |   6/95   |   7/95  |  10/95  |   11/95  |
* Heavy Equipments    1    4,1711  Supply I    Several I ICB   |   6/95   r   7/95  |  10/95      11/95
E - ROLLING STOCK
* Refurbishment of EMUs    1,7451 Supp./Works |     1    NCB   |   8/95       9/95  l  12/95                 1/96
*Assembling of EMUs   |   23,1281  Supply I      1     1 ICB   1   6/95   1   7/95  1  11/95  1             12/95
F - TECH. ASSISTANCE        13,475  Services  I Several  I Other c/|  6/95  |  6/95   |  9/95   |10/95
a/ Of items to be financed under the Bank Loan.
b/ Start of delivery.                                                                                                          >
c/ Bank's Guidelines for Selection of Consultants.                                                                             Z
m
x
O02



-64-                                        ANNEX 8
Table 8.6: Implementation Schedule - Estimated Annual Payments
(US$ million)
PROJECT ELEMENT         PRE-)OIEST                    PROJECT CY                     TOTAL   REMARKS
1995   1996    1997   1998    1999   2000  2001  PAYMENT
1 - LAND EXPROPRIATION                     2,068  2,113   1,083                                5,264
2- CIVIL WORKS                                    11,859  37,509  33,309  12,502  3,932  2,417  101,528
* Lot A                                         2,464   7,124  6,005   2,771                18,364
* Lot B                                         3,081   9,805  7,367    976                 21,229
* Lot C                                         2,141   6,665  5,069    900                 14,775
' Lot D                                         1,465   4,457  3,823   1,448                11,193
*Buildings                                      2,052   4,678  4,748   3,484                14,962
* Viaducts                                        656   1,884  1,448    779                  4,767
* Road Traffic Control                                                 1,534  3,932  2,417   7,883
* Road Accesses                                         2,896  4,849    610                  8,355
4 - PERMANENT WAY                                  2,917  4,487   7,665                       15,069
* Superstructure                                1,286   1,978  3,380                         6,644
* Materials                                     1,631   2,509  4,285                         8,425
5 - SYSTEMS                                  241   2,624  5,461   5,658  7,383  3,231  3,310  27,908
5.1 - ELECTRIFICATION                              920   2,460   1,557  2,129                 7,066
* Catenary                                              1,519  1,557   2,129                 5,205
* Substations                                     920    941                                 1,861
5.2 - SIGNALING                                   1,458  2,244   3,066  3,929  2,416  2,475  15,588
* Signaling                                     1,102   1,696  2,318   2,970  1,826  1,871  11,783
* CTC & CPC                                       356    548     748    959    590   604     3,805
5.3 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    241    246     757   1,035  1,325   815    835    5,254
* Cable & Radio Network                   241     103    175     204    167    238   404     1,532
* Public Address & Clock Systems                   12     49      92    105                   258
* Ticketing Control System                        131    533     739   1,053   346           2,802
* Telephone Central Station                                                    231   431      662
6 - WORKSHOPS                                780    780   4,855   1,658                        8,073
6.1 - Light Equipments                      480    369   2,276    777                         3,902
* Lot 1                                    70      70    439     150                          729
' Lot 2                                   292     299   1,837    627                         3,055
' Lot 3                                    59                                                  59
* Lot 4                                    12                                                  12
* Lot 5                                    47                                                  47
6.2 - Heavy Equipments                      300    411   2,579    881                         4,171
* Lot 1                                           120    742     254                         1,116
* Lot 2                                   300     291   1,837    627                         3,055
7 - ROLLING STOCK                          4,488   7,743  12,642                              24,873
* Refurbishment of EMUs                           862    883                                 1,745
* Assembling of EMUs                     4,488  6,881  11,759                               23,128
8 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   1,784   4,045  3,179   2,366  1,147   643    311   13,475
* Supervision                             214   1,031   1,744  1,630    528    326    149    5,622
* T.A. & Studies                         1,570  3,014   1,435    736    619    317    162    7,853
9 - TRAINING                                 337    459     354                                1,150
Travel & Expenses                        101     138    106                                  345
* Consultants                             236     321    248                                  805
TOTALS                         9,698  32,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6,038  197,340
(Bank Financed)                   (3.88) (17.38) (35.02) (25.50) (10.19) (3 99) (3.04)  (99.00)
I  I   I                 _I=7



- 65 -                              ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Background
1.           A standard cost-benefit analysis was performed to evaluate the economic impact of the
implementation of the proposed infrastructure and equipment component (Eldorado - Vilarinho link),
which represents 98 percent of the total proposed project. This Annex describes the demand analysis
and the set of benefits and costs that have been considered in the economic evaluation, as well as the
assumptions adopted regarding key inputs, such as the value of time. Direct user benefits include travel
time, operating cost savings, and the investments avoided due to the proposed project; indirect
benefits arise from the reduction of negative externalities (accident and air pollution costs). Investment
costs comprise civil works, land expropriation, operational systems, rolling stock and project studies.
Both benefits and costs are defined as incremental compared to the situation without the project.
Throughout the analysis, and for illustrative purposes, the proposed investments were evaluated with
and without the accident and air pollution externalities. A more detailed description of the data and
assumptions supporting the economic evaluation summarized in this annex can be found in Reports
8 and 9 in the Project Files.
2.           This economic evaluation estimates the discounted expected present value of the
infrastructure investment's net benefits, the expected internal economic rates of return, as well as the
expected benefit/cost ratios for a set of discount rates, which includes the 1 0 percent discount rate,
which has been defined by SEAIN (Secretary of Planning for the Federative Republic of Brazil), as well
by its Commission of External Financing (COFIEX) for the project appraisal of foreign investments. In
addition, the sensitivity analysis included in this annex provides an idea of how the economic rates of
return would change due to deviations from the value of benefits and costs used in the base case. The
analysis is then complemented by a table of impacts of the project which are evaluated on a qualitative
basis.
B. Choice of a Project Base Case
3.           Mass Transit Options. Following current Bank policy recommendations for the appraisal
of mass transit investments contained in the Urban Transport Policy Paper IWorld Bank, 1 986) the
proposed investments were compared against two total segregated busways with regular buses and
a total segregated busways with articulated buses. In all cases, the analyses showed that the proposed
investments had a higher internal rate of return.
C. Demand Analysis
4.           Current Demand Levels. The peak-hour demand levels in the main avenues in the area
of influence of the system in 1994 were: (a) Cristiano Machado, 10,500 bus passengers/hour/inbound;
(b) Antonio Carlos, 16,600 bus passengers/hour/inbound; and (c) Amazonas, 7,850 bus
passengers/hour/inbound.



-66-                                 ANNEX 9
Demand Modelling
5.           The demand estimates used in the economic evaluation are the result of a simulation
of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region transport network, performed with the Mantra System 4'
microcomputer program. The urban transport demand model used by this program is a classical
aggregate four-stage transport planning model, which comprises trip generation, trip distribution, modal
split, and trip assignment. This model estimates peak (6 hours) and off-peak (10 hours) periods of
public transport demand, which are assigned to bus and Metro lines.
6.           The model Mantra is integrated with a Geographic Information System, GisPlus. 6 In
order to use the model, it was necessary to create a GIS database for Belo Horizonte Metropolitan
Region, which comprises a Zoning layer and a Transport network layer (made up of line and node
layers). To develop the databases for the demand study, the team benefitted by the existence of
existing GIS software (APIC), managed by the municipality of Belo Horizonte.
7.           The zoning system adopted is based in the BH sub-regions, which were defined in the
Belo Horizonte Urban Development Plan and are already defined in the BH/APIC.GIS system. This layer
was exported by APIC and then imported by MANTRA.
8.           The present demand study used as primary data the 1993 Origin/Destination (ODI
survey performed by BHTRANS in all the bus lines in the BHMR. With the data, public transport
demand is available on a daily/hourly basis. Initially the OD survey was processed for each bus line.
The breakdown into peak and off-peak periods was done using information from BHTRANS. This
authority also provided information for each bus line on the number of passenger being transported per
hour of day. Peak hour periods considered were the following: 06:00 a.m. to 09:00 a.m. and 16:00
p.m. to 19:00 p.m. The number of trips in this period corresponds to 48 percent of the weekday
ridership.
9.           The OD matrix breakdown into trip purposes was based in a survey carried out by
CBTU/Belo Horizonte, showing that 80 percent of trips are commuting and business and 20 percent
are related to other trip purposes.
10.          The steps in the demand modelling exercise were:
(a)   Trip Generation. This step consists of the estimation of the number of trips
which will be produced by and attracted to the area of influence of the projects
considered in the study. In the present study it was conservatively assumed
that the 1 993 OD matrix is a good estimate up to the year 2001. After this
year, a yearly demand increase of 1 percent per year was considered. Car and
walking trips were not considered at all.
(b)   Trip Distribution. This step consists of the determination of the origin zone and
destination zone for each trip based on the types of trips produced by and
attracted to each zone and the interzonal "impedance" values (typically travel
times). Also in this case there is the assumption of using the current matrix as
an estimate up to the year 2001.
4/     Mantra Computer System was developed by Logit - Logistica Informatica e Transportes, Brazil, and SDG - Steer Davies
Gleave, England.
5/    GisPlus is a Geographic Information System developed by Caliper Corporation, USA.



- 67 -                              ANNEX 9
(c)   Modal Choice consists of the calculation of which trips will use the bus
network and the metro system. The Mantra model allows the competition
between single modes and combined modes. The modal choice model used is
the multinomial Logit model. It is important to point out that for each zone pair
of interest, for the area of influence of the Metro line, there will always be
competition between bus and metro+bus. The model utility functions
considered the same values of travel time used in the economic evaluation.
(d)   Trip assignment consists of the "loading" of the passenger trips onto the multi-
modal public transport network. The method used to assign the trips made
within each model, is the 'all or nothing' procedure, with no capacity restraint
iterations. The reason for this is the fact that car trips were not considered in
the present transport demand modelling exercise.
11.          The model was applied for the situation "without" and "with" the project, in both cases
using the Vilarinho - Eldorado link. The outputs obtained from the application of the model are the
number of trips, passenger-kms and passenger-hours by each individual mode: bus and metro. By
running the model for the situation "without" and "with," data were obtained on the additional trips
in the metro mode, and also the decrease in bus trips which result from the construction of the
proposed projects. The following paragraphs summarize the situation "without" and "with" project for
the above link and the results in terms of passenger-trips, passenger-kilometers, passenger-hours and
average speeds are summarized below:
(a)   Situation "Without Project" (Year 2001). The main traffic characteristics of the
study area in the situation "without" the project on a daily basis are: average
peak-hour bus speeds of 16.01 km/hour with a total of 1,565,597 passengers,
with 16,251,083 passenger-kms generated by bus trips with origins or
destinations in the BHMR. The corresponding number of passenger hours is
777,758. The metro trips generated for daily origins/destinations in the study
area a total of 113,895 passengers with 924,520 passenger-kms,
corresponding to 21,132 passenger-hours. The transit modal choice in terms
of trips generated by the study area would be 93.2 percent bus, and 6.8
percent metro.
(b)   Situation "With Project" (Year 2001). On a daily basis, the average peak-hour
bus speeds in the study area would rise to 16.26 km/h and daily demand for
bus transportation would go down to 1,356,656 passengers with 14,189,262
passenger-kms and 852,599 passenger-hours. The daily demand for metro trips
in the study area (with Eldorado - Vilarinho Link) will go up to a total of
322,832 passengers with 3,102,015 passenger-kms and 70,903 passenger-
hours. The transit modal choice will then be, in terms of passenger-kms, 80.8
percent bus, 19.2 percent metro.
1 2.         The demand estimates for the metro line in the year 2001 indicate: (a) a peak-hour
inbound volume of about 16,201 passengers; (b) a peak-hour outbound volume of 4,291 passengers;
(c) a total of about 2,033,841 week-day boardings; and (d) an annual ridership of more than 104
million passengers.



- 68 -                              ANNEX 9
Table 9.1: Demand Levels in the Metro Line (Eldorado-Vilarinho)
Year 2001
Peak-Hour Inbound Passengers                                            16,209
Peak-Hour Outbound Passengers                                            4,291
Average Weekday Boardings                                              322,832
Average Annual Ridership                                           104,597,568
D. Benefits
Value of Time
13.          Mass transit projects can hardly be economically justified without accounting for the
real resource savings that economies of time represent. The monetary value of time by which the time
savings are multiplied to obtain the benefits from time savings is a key input in the economic evaluation
of the infrastructure components of this project. Individual values of time are traditionally considered
to be a function of income, in particular a function of the individual wage level. Thus, the value of time
used in the calculation of time savings is derived from the income distribution of users, disaggregated
by transport mode and trip purpose, and from information on wage levels. Table 9.2 shows the income
of public transport users in the zone of influence of the STU-BH and is disaggregated by mode. The
information was obtained from the Bus and CBTU surveys of their users conducted in 1 993.
14.          The base minimum wage used was R$70 which at the shadow price of foreign
exchange of 1 is equivalent to US$70. From this minimum wage base, the value of fringe benefits was
considered separate from payroll taxes. Fringe benefits in Brazil include vacation and the 1 3th month
of salary; both entail scaling the base salary by a factor of 1.25. Commuting and other purpose trips
are valued as a proportion of net wages. This implies subtracting direct taxes paid by the employee
from the base wage, which includes fringe benefits. The employee is subject to a payroll tax that varies
between 8 percent and 1 0 percent. In addition, the income tax should be subtracted. By assuming that
one-third of passengers are not tax-exempt and do not evade taxes, the net wage deflating factor will
be in the 0.92-0.88 range. An average factor of 0.9 was used. Business trips are valued at gross
wages, where fringe benefits and payroll taxes are taken into account. Payroll taxes in Brazil vary
between 38 percent and 45 percent and about 35 percent are paid by the employer. By combining
fringe benefits and employer contribution on payroll taxes, the base wage must be scaled by a factor
of 1.60 (1.25 plus 0.35).
1 5.         Hourly wages for each transport mode users are estimated by multiplying the individual
wage (in minimum wages) by the value of the minimum wage and dividing the result by 157, the
assumed average number of hours worked in a given month. Common practice in the appraisal of urban
transport projects is to use a proportion of the hourly wage rate to approximate the value of time
saved. This proportion as well as the wage rate base chosen for the calculation-whether gross or net
wages-depend on the type of trip. Three types of trip can be distinguished for the purposes of the
analysis: home-to-work trips (or commuting trips), work-related trips (or business trips), and non-work
related trips (or othertrips), for example shopping or visiting the doctor. Economic theory indicates that
both commuting trips and other trips should be valued as a proportion of the net wage. Empirical
evidence suggests that this proportion may vary between 20 and 100 percent. The value adopted in
the economic evaluation was a value of 1 7.5 percent based on a study undertaken a few years ago
for a similar city of the northeast with the same type of population. A 20 percent value was tested as
part of the sensitivity analysis. Economic theory also indicates that business trips during working hours



- 69 -                                ANNEX 9
be valued at 100 percent of the gross wage rate.-' The resulting values of time used in the economic
evaluation are summarized in Table 9.3 and the proportion of passenger-hours spent travelling by type
of trip is summarized in Table 9.2.
Direct Benefits
1 6.          Direct benefits estimated in the economic evaluation are travel time savings, operating
cost savings, bus system control savings, and road maintenance cost savings:
(a)    Travel time savings result mainly from the transfer of bus passengers into the
new lines, and from existing metro and rail passengers who can save time in
their trips by taking advantage of the new transport facility. Travel time savings
also result from the increased operating speeds of the buses that continue
operation and, to a lesser extent, of car traffic. The program used to model the
demand works with an origin-destination matrix where the number of trips is
fixed. The number of "legs" comprising those trips may vary. When the new
link is introduced in the network, the modal split is affected and some trip
itineraries change. Thus, the demand model estimates the diverted demand, but
it does not estimate the so-called generated demand, that is, the additional
trips that will be potentially generated throughout the BHMR, but particularly
in the corridors directly affected by the investment. Omission of generated
demand yields a conservative level of demand and, consequently, results in a
lower rate of return. Travel time savings are measured for each mode by the
difference between the total number of morning peak passenger-hours spent
without the project and those spent with the project. These peak-hour
estimates are converted to annual values and then multiplied by the assumed
value of time to obtain a monetary value of time savings. The net change in
travel time across the four modes is considered to be the overall measure of
the travel time savings;
{[Pass-hr (w/o) - Pass-hr (w)I x VoT x PHF x ND} -- 1,000, where Pass-hr are
passenger-hours, VoT is the value of time, PHF is the peak-hour factor, and ND
is the number of operating days in a year.
(b)    Operating cost savings for the non-rail modes derive principally from the
improved commercial and traffic speeds, which can be achieved by buses and
cars, respectively. Operating cost savings are measured for each mode by the
difference between the morning peak passenger-kilometers carried without the
project and those carried with the project. All trips were considered irrespective
of their purpose. These peak-hour estimates are converted to annual values and
then multiplied by the assumed values of operating cost per passenger-
kilometer for each mode to obtain a monetary value of operating cost savings.
The net change in operating costs across the four modes is considered to be
the overall measure of operating cost savings. Operating cost savings include
wages and salaries, materials, energy and general expenditures. An alternative
method to estimate these savings was to calculate the actual number of buses
6/    In developed countries, estimates of the value of time for journey to work ranges from 20 to 100 percent of the gross
wage rate. A recent review of the literature concludes that a reasonable average value of time for journey to work
is 50 percent of the gross wage rate. See Kenneth Small, Urban Transportation Economics, Harwood Academic
Publishers 1992; page 44.



- 70 -                               ANNEX 9
eliminated at peak hour due to the construction of the line and estimate the
savings due to the elimination of the buses and reduction in bus kilometers
produced. Table 9.3 shows the calculations used.
{[Pass-km (wlo) x OC Iw/o)] - [Pass-km (w) x OC Iw)] x PHF x ND) - 1,000,
where OC are operating costs per passenger-kilometer.
(c)   Bus system control cost savings depend critically on the reduction of the bus
vehicle fleet, which is assumed to follow from the reduction in bus patronage
after the metro line opens. Bus system control cost savings are measured by
a given percentage (8 percent) of bus operating costs.
(d)   Road maintenance cost savings derive from the possibility of delaying periodic
maintenance mainly because of reduced bus traffic on the corridors under
consideration. The benefits from reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from
reduced pavement damage are not considered.
{[Pass-km (w/o) - Pass-km (w)] x RMC x PHF x ND} - 1,000 where RMC are
road maintenance cost savings per passenger-kilometer.
Indirect Benefits
1 7.         Indirect benefits arise from the reduction in externalities, such as accidents and air
pollution:
(a)   Accident cost savings are measured for each mode by the difference between
the morning peak passenger-kilometers carried without the project and those
carried with the project. These peak-hour estimates are converted to annual
values and then multiplied by the assumed values of accident costs per 1,000
passenger-kilometer for each mode to obtain a monetary value of accident cost
savings. The net change in accident costs across the four modes is considered
to be the overall measure of accident cost savings. Accident costs include
property damage, injuries and loss of life.
{[(Pass-km (w/o)) - 1,000 - (Pass-km (w))-1,000] x ACC x PHF x ND}
1,000, where ACC are accident cost savings per 1000 passenger kilometer.
(b)   Air pollution cost savings are measured for bus and cars by the difference
between the morning peak passenger-kilometers carried without the project and
those carried with the project. These peak-hour estimates are deflated by the
average vehicle occupancy (to obtain costs per vehicle-kilometer) then
converted to annual values, and finally multiplied by the assumed values of air
pollution costs per vehicle-kilometer to obtain a monetary value of air pollution
cost savings. The air pollution factor (US$/gram) of emission reduction)
represents the total health and welfare benefits associated with the reduced
pollution emissions resulting from the proposed investments. Health benefits
include reduced morbidity and mortality whereas welfare benefits include the
reductions in soiling and corrosion of buildings and other structures. The net
change in air pollution costs in the bus and car modes is considered to be the
overall measure of air pollution cost savings. The set of air pollutants
considered include carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC), nitrogen oxides
(N0O), sulphur oxides (S0O) and fine particulate matter (PM 10).



- 71 -                               ANNEX 9
{(lPass-km (w/o) - Pass-km (w)1 x APC x PHF x ND) -. AOF} . 1,000 x where
APC are air pollution cost savings per passenger-kilometer and AOF is the
average vehicle occupancy factor.
E. Costs
18.          Investment Costs. Investment cost components were grouped for the economic
evaluation into land expropriations, civil works, operating systems, rolling stock, and costs of projects
and studies. Annex 8 contains a detailed breakdown of the capital cost structure. To obtain the
economic cost stream for both links, taxes were subtracted from the total costs (including physical and
price contingencies) shown in Annex 8 and multiplied by a shadow value factor of 0.9.
19.          Operating Costs. The incremental operating costs due to the investments are wages
and salaries, materials, energy and general expenditures (e.g., auditing, legal costs, transport, and
cleaning services).
20.          Discount Rate. In calculating the net present value for the underground and rail
integration components of the project a discount rate must be selected which represents the
opportunity cost of capital in Brazil. The discount rate used as "benchmark" by SEAIN (Secretary of
Planning) for foreign investments, as well as COFIEX (Commission of External Financing) is 10 percent.
F. Results of Economic Evaluation
21.          Internal economic rates of return (IERR), net present values (NPV), and Benefit/Cost
ratios (B/C) were calculated. The assumed project life is 25 years. Residual values were estimated at
the end of the project life for the civil works, operating systems and rolling stock. These residual values
were calculated following CBTU accounting procedures that assume a linear depreciation rate, which
vary according to the expected operational life of the components.
Distribution of Costs and Benefits
22.          Table 9.5 shows the annual series of expected benefits and costs for the proposed
project in the base case scenario.
Net Present Values
23.          The discounted expected present value of benefits for both investments net of costs,
are positive in the relevant range, which includes the discount rate of 10 percent are given in Table
9.5.
Internal Economic Rates of Return
24.          The estimated IERR for the base case is given in Table 9.5.
First-year Benefit Test
25.          A "first-year" benefit test was performed to assess whether the investments are
premature. Tables 9.7 show the results of the test for discount rates of 10 percent and 1 2 percent.
For both discount rates the proposed investments have benefits larger than the rate of discount
multiplied by the net present value of total investment costs in the planned year of start-up of
operations. This suggests that there are no additional net benefits to be gained if the implementation
of the project is delayed from the schedule assumed in the base case scenario.



- 72 -                               ANNEX 9
Sensitivity Analysis
26.          A sensitivity analysis was performed to estimate the variance of the IERR in relation
to the calculated value (base case) if deviations occur in the major benefit and cost components (travel
time savings, operating cost savings, wages and salaries, general expenditures, investment costs).
Table 9.6 shows the results.
Qualitative Analysis of the Infrastructure and Equipment Component
27.          Table 9.8 is an impact matrix which summarizes the impact of the proposed investment
on a number of aspects which could not be quantified in the standard benefit cost analysis.



Table 9.2: Basic Inputs Eldorado - Vilarinho
PREUMNARY ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE BELO HORIZONTE CBTU PROJECT
BASIC INPUTS                                                BELO HORIZONTE               IERR = 31.0  Year 1994 (peak hour)  BASICA4                         =
METRO    RAIL     BUS      AUTO
Peak-hour factor (HOURS)                                                      work        othar       PASS-HOURS          Work       without/p       1624.8          79484.8
Metro                                                                        10.88       10.88                                       with/p          6015.2          67332.8
Rail                                                        N.A.                   N.A                                               not change     4390.4     0      -12152     0   -7761.6
Bus                                                                          13.03       13.03                            Othar      without/p       406.2           19971.2         .   -
Auto                                                                         12.87       12.87                                       with/p         1503.8           16833.2
Peak-hour factor (VEHICLE)                                                                                                           net ohange     1097.6     0       -3038     0   -1940.4
m etro                                                                       10.98       10.98                             _ _ _ _     _ _ _  _
Redl                                                        N.A.                   N.A
Bus                                                                          13.03       13.03                                                               _                       .   -
Auto                                                                         12.87       12.87        PASS-KMS            Work       without/p      71086.4        1272797.6
Opwating cost (w/ol                                                          1/p-km                                                  with/p       263148.8         1094648.8    _
Metro                                                                     0.046114                                                   not change    192062.4    0   -178148.8     0
RD i                                                        N.A.                                                          Other      without/p     17771.6          318199.4
Bus                                                                       0.025208                                                   with/p        65787.2          273662.2 .
Auto                                                                      0.255174                                                   net ohange    48015.6     0    -44537.2     0
Opeating coats (withl                                                        S/p-km                                                                          =
Metro                                                                     0.043347                                        Not total                 240078     0     -222686     0
RaH                                                         N.A.                                                           .
Bus                                                                       0.019835                                         .
Auto                                                                      0.209655                    PASS-HOURS           .                       METRO    RAIL     BUS      AUTO
Road maintenance cots                                                        S/p-km                                       Commuting  without/p        1199     0      58660      0
But                                                                       0.000118                                      _.           wth/p            4439     0      49692      0
Auto                                                                      0.000278                                                   net change       3240     0       -8968     0
Aooident costs                                                          t/lOOOp-km                                        Business   without/p         426     0      20825      0
Metro                                                                         0.06                                                   with/p           1576     0      17641      0
Rail                                                        N.A.                                                                    net ohange        1150     0       -3164     0
Bus                                                                           0.80                                        Other     without/p          406     0      19871      0
Auto                                                                         40.30                                                  with/p            1504     0      16833      0
Costs of air polkrtion                                                      US$/km                                                  not change        1098     0      -3038      0
Bus                                            1/5 OF SP                0.0754696 8_ 
Auto OINCLUDES ALC. FLEET)                     1/5 OF SP                 0.018676
hputt to Estkneto Time Savings                                                     $US                NOTE: Auto voklme were not used although auto speeds will inorease with the prolect
MINIMUM WAGE (AS OF 11/ 1/94'                           70 REAIS (1US 1 = tR 1)          70.0        increasing therefore the time savings and reducing operating costs. The model usod tested only the demand s
S HOURS/MONTH                                                                 157                     betwoen buses and the metro and therefore the benefits are conservative.
TIME SAVINGS FACTOR      COMMUTE                                            0.175
OTHER                                               0.175
BUSINESS                                               1
HOUSEHOLD (MW)    S OF MEMBERS     INDIVIDUAL M. WAGES    SALARY ($US)
SALARY BUS USER/M (MW)                7.58            2.163                  3.50         245                                                                                                   >
SALARY METRO USER/M                   ff.02           2.163                  2.78         195                                                                                                   z
SALARY AUTO USER/M                      tO            2.163                   4.62        324                                                                                                   Z
4 DAYSNYEAR                            324  _ 
DISCOUNT RATE SUGGESTED BY BRAZLIAN PLANNING SECRETARIAT IS 10%



- 74 -                                      ANNEX 9
Table 9.3: Estimation of Buses Saved With and Without Eldorado - Vilarinho
Estimating the busse which wil not be needed in the situation "with the Froject." '
peak               off-peek
Hours of oper./day                                        6                  10
WITHOUT PROJECT
Pass-km                   _                       1,590,997              670510
Pass-hr                                              99,356               38170 .
Speed                                                 16.01               24.24
Pass-hr                                             596,136              381699            _
Pass/bus                         _                       48                  40
Bus-hr                    _                          12,420                9642
Bus-km                                              198,875              231279
Bus-km/hr                                            33,146               23128         -
Buses                     _                           2,070                 954
WITH PROJECT              _                                                     .
Line       Formula          peak
Hours of oper              17              6              6
Pass-km                    is    =1_13+1_16       1,368,311.
Pass-hr                    19     =L4+L7             84,166                     .
Speed                      20     =B18/B19            16.26
Pass-hr                    21    =B19-B17           504,996                     .
Pass/bus                   22             48             48.
Bus-hr                     23     =B21/B22           10,521                     .
Bus-km                     24    =B23'B20           171,039                     .
Bus-km/hr                  25     =8241/17           28,506                     .
Buses                      26     =823/B17            1,753
27
28                 Factors
Pass-hr                    29                         12.87
Bus-km                     30                         13.03
3 1
3 2                Totals
Pass-hr                    33                       1083216
Bus-km                     34                        371439
Bus-kmibus-yr              35                         69269
36
37                 Off-peak
Hours                      38                            10
Pass-km/hr                 39                        597940
Pass-hr/hr                 40                         35812
Speed                      41                         16.70
Pass-hr                    42                        178616
Pass/bus                   43                            40
Bus-hr                     44                          4465
Bus-km                     45                         74558
Bus-km/hr                  46           _              7456
Buses                      47                           447
km/hr      km/hr
_ ______________________       _______________  _______________  ________   peak    off-peeak
Number of buses                                                   w/o     16.01      24.24
Without project                                        2070      with      16.26      16.70
With project                                           1753                      __
Difference                                              316              USc/km      USc/km
Fixed cost per bus-year                             $44,420                 peak    off-peek
Inflation                                            1.0000       w/o     17,40       16.00
Fixed cost savings                              $14,057,079      with     16.90       14.00
Operating cost savings                          $10,453,876                                 _
Total annual cost savings                       $24,510,955         _     mn km      mn km
__________________         ___________        w/o      64.44      74.93
with     55.42      24.16
$m         $m total
_________________                                ~~~~     ~~~~~     ~ ~~ ~~~w/o  11.21  1  1.99 I
MAR 28, 1995                                                     with      9.37       3.38 1
Operating costs based on hdm relations                            diff    3185        -8.61   -10.45



Table 9.4: Estimation of Other Benefits Eldorado - Vilarinho
mw/house  house size  mw/individual w ge rate  waoe/hour  hours/month
BENEFiTS (US$ 1000)                                     BUS           7.58      2.163  3.50439205     70.0       1.56        157
Lqeend: [w/o] =without project; Iwi -with project       METRO         8.02      2.163  2.78317152     70.0       1.24        157 67         Conversion
Vot=valueof time; PHFF=peak-hour factor;                AUTO            10      2.163  4.82320851     70.0       2.06        167            factor:          1
NDY = number of opweatingi daYs Per yewr
VoT         PHiFt    NDY   VoTT Iwlol   VoTT Iwl    TTS Net
TFAVEL TIME SAViNGS (TTS) In US$1000:                   METRO     Commuting      0.24       10.88     324     1032.66     3823.04   -2790.38              _
TTS - Pshourafw/ol - Pas-hoursiwv) x VoT x PtiFt x NDY            BusInen        1.09       10.68     324     2979.43    11030.21   -8050.77 
_________________________ ________________________Other         0.24       10.88     324      349.82     1295.07    -946.26            _ _ _
RAIL      Commuting      0.24 N.A.            324        0.00        0.00       0.00
BusInesw       1.99 N.A.             324        0.00       0.00       0.00                      _
Other          0.24 N.A              324        0.00       0.00       0.00
BUS       Commuting      0.31       13.03     324    76178.34    64531.86   11846.49
fian_as        2.60       13.03      324   219788.96  186186.01   33602.34
Other          0.31       13.03      324    26806.67   21860.38    3946.29                      _
_ _ _ _ _ _ __ AUTO  Commuting  0.41  12.87   324        0.00        0.00       0.00
BusIness       3.30       12.87      324        0.00       0.00       0.00
_Other         0.41        12.97     324        0.00       0.00       0.00         0
TTS Total                                           32134.SB    299727.16  37407.72          0       0       0
OPERATING COSTS SAVINGS IOCSI In US$1000:
OCS b IPsee.lffelwiol - Pasknlw)) x OC x PFiFv x NOY                        _
Thes bwwlt wer rwdmwted oriy on the basis of bue s*evd            _
no hown In the promm pae                                                                                                                                  _
ACCIDENTS COSTS SAVINGS (ACS) In US$1000:                   =         =        =             PHFt     NDY     AC twhol     AC [w]    ACS Not     =-
OCS - IWass-ksl - P_awkms[wil x AC x PlFt x NOY         METRO                               10.86     324       18.79      69.67     -50.78                                         0
FERROVIA                     [N.A.            324        0.00        0.00      0.00  _
BUS                                 13.03     324     6373.40    4021.30     762.00
AUTO                                t 12.87   324        0.00        0.00      0.00         0                    _
ACS Total  _                                          6392.19    4600.87      701.32         0       0      0
AIR POLLUTION COSTS SAVINGS WACSI IN US$1000:                                     AO         PHFv     NDY    APC [w/ol    APC Iwl   APCS Net
APCS - IRlas-kotelwll - Pee-Ikmtwil x APC x PFFv x NQYI/AO  WS                    48        10.88     324     8818.10    7683.87    1234.24           1
AUTO                     1.46       12.87     324        0.00       0.00       0.00         0
APCS Total                                            8818.10     7583.87   1234.24         0        0      0        _
BUS SYSTEM CONTROL COSTS SAVINGS IBSCCSI IN US$1000:             I_                                        BSCCS Iwlo)  B8CCS Iwi  BSCCS Net        0
0 BSCCS Total                                           14391.B3    9739.25    4062.69         0       0       0
ROAD MAINTENANCE COSTS SAViNGS IRMCS) IN USF1000                                             PFiFv    NDY    RMC Iw/ol    RMC Iwl  FRMCS Net
RMCS . IIP_nstmiw/ol - Pse-krnwil x RMC x PHFv x NDY    BUs                                 13.03     324      792.65     8B1.64     110.93
AUTO                                12.87     324        0.00        0.00      0.00         0
__RMCS Total                                           782.68      681.64    110.93         0       0       0               >
z
INVESTMENT COSTS IUS$1000)                                                                         YEAR 1      YEAR 2     YEAR 3     YEAR 4     YEAR 6  YEAR 0  YEAR 7    TOTAL     m
I_______________I____                                   ____              veraaoloJecriosa         7,399      24,696     61,480     36,791     14,917   5,400   4.064   144,765    X
Operating coats for the metro were obtained from Jo"e Rcrdo and are already eronomic coats.
seon. conv. fac  0.9
TOTAL PPiCES EXCLUDING DUTIES                                                                        8221       27442      67200      40879     16576    6007    4516    160839
INFLATION FACTOR                                                                                    0.60%       1.80%      2.60%      2.60%     2.50%   2.60%   2.60%
BASE + PH-iYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                            9262      28076      60042      43983      18279    6790    5232    170664



Table 9.5: Benefits end Coats of Eldorado - Vilarinho Metro
(US$ THOUSANDSI
DIRECT BENEFITS                              EXTERNALITIES    .      :    INVESTMENT           OPERATING COSTS
Road        Bus     Invest.                      ..              COSTS                                                       BENEFITS
Travel     Operating   Melntenance  System    which                 Air                                 , at.                             TOTAL         minus
PROJECT CALENDAR      Time        Cost         Cost       Cost     will be  Aooident   Pollution  .. PEf              :,iT ,  Weag &  Opwr.ting    Other       COSTS        COSTS
YEAR     YEAR      Savings     Savings      Savings    Savinges  avoided   Savings    Savings  .- ....                    Salaries    Cost       Costs        (CI     IB-CI
I        1995                                                                                         0         7,399                                          7,399          17,3991
2         1996                                                   14000                            14,000      24,698                                          24,698         (10,6981
3         1997                                                   14000                            14,000       51,480                                         61,480        (37,480)
4         1998                                                    7000                             7,000      36,791                                          36,791         129,791)
5         1999                                                    3500                             3,600      14,917                                          14,917        (11,417)
8        2000       18,704      12,256           66      980                 361        617       32,963       6,408       1,529      2,268         422        9,626         23,338
7         2001      37,408      24,611          I1l     1,961                701       1,234      66,926       4,064       3,068      4,536         844       12,501         63,426
8         2002      37,782      24,758          112     1,980                708       1,247      86,596           0       3,089      4,680         852        8,521         58,064
9         2003      38,180      25,004          113     2,000                716       1,269      87,251           0       3,119      4,826         861        8,607         58,646
10        2004      38,641       26,254         114     2,020                723       1,272      67,924           0        3,161     4,672         870         8.693        69,231
11        2006      38,927       25,506         115     2,040                730       1,284      68,603           0       3,182      4,719         878         8,780        69,923
12        2006      39,316       25,761         117     2,061                737       1,297      69,2989          0       3,214      4,766         987         8,867        60,422
13        2007      39,709       26,019 a1 8            2,082                744       1,310      69,982           a        3,246     4,814         896         8,966        61,026
14        2008      40,106       26,279         119     2,102                752        1,323     70,682           0       3,279      4,862         905         9,046        61,636
15        2009      40,607       26,642         120     2,123                7b9       1,337      71,388           0       3,311      4,911         914         9,136        62,252
16        2010      40,912       26,807         121     2,146                767       1,350      72,102           0       3,344      4,960         923        9,227         62,875
17        2011      41,321       27,075         123     2,166                775       1,363      72,823           0       3,378      5,009         932        9,320         63,604
18        2012      41,735       27,346         124     2,188                782       1,377      73,562           0       3,412      5,060         942        9,413         64,139
18        2013      42,162       27,620         12b     2,210                790       1,391      74,287           0       3,446      5,110         951        9,507         84,780
20        2014      42,573       27,896         126     2.232                798       1,406      76,030           0       3,480      5,161         961        9,602         66,428
21        2015      42,999       28,175         128     2,254                808       1,419      75,780           0       3,516      5,213         970        9,698         66,082
22        2016      43,429       28,466         129     2,277                814       1,433      76,538           0       3,550      5,26          990        9,795         66,743
23        2017      43,863       28,741         130     2,299                822       1,447      77,303           0       3,586      5,318         990        9,893         67,410
24        2018      44,302       29,028         131     2,322                831       1,462      78,076           0       3,622      5,371        1,000       9,892         68,086
25        2018      44,745       29,319         133     2,345                839       1.476      78,857      120,266)     3.65S      5,425        1,010      110,174)       89,031
IERR=           31.0
growth rate         1.010 -> 1994-2010                                                                                        NPV@10%=       231137.9066
1.01  > 2011-2018
Ben PV @ 10%    379466.7179
Cos V@ 10%      148317.8114
BiC @ 10%              2.56
z
m
x



- 77 -                              ANNEX 9
Table 9.6: Sensitivity Analysis of Eldorado - Vilarinho Metro
NPV
IRR   (US$ million)  B/C
%      r=10%      ratio
BASE CASE                                          31.02     231.14     2.56
BENEFITS Value of time       10% higher             32.30    251.02     2.69
10% lower             29.70     211.25    2.42
50% lower             23.80     131.72    1.89
60% lower             22.10     111.84    1.75
Operating cost savings  10% higher         31.90     245.21    2.65
10% lower             30.10     217.07    2.46
50% lower             26.10     160.79    2.08
100% lower            20.20      90.43    1.61
Externalities        100% lower            30.30     220.85    2.49
(accident and air
pollution savings)
Growth rate          .5% higher 1999-2010  31.30     238.83    2.60
base case=1% per year  .5% higher 1999-2018  31.30   240.74    2.61
1.0% higher 1999-2010  31.50    246.76    2.64
Incremental Traffic  10% higher            34.20     270.23    2.82
20% lower             24.60     153.58    2.04
150% lower             14.20      38.80    1.26
COSTS   Construction costs  [50% higher             21.60    179.40     1.90
(including physical and  80% higher        18.30     148.36    1.64
price contingencies)  _
Operating costs     |100% higher           28.00     186.29    1.96
1230% higher           23.50     128.00    1.51
Start-up of operations  Investment costs
stream (US$ 1000)
one year delay       1995     7399
(benefits start      1996   22228
accruing in 2001)    1997   43654
1998   36050
1999   19988
2000    8670
2001    4329
2002    2438          26.30     341.29    2.41
two-year delay       1995    7399
(benefits start      1996   20993
accruing in 2002)    1997   39741
1998   35679
1999   22523
2000   10302
2001    3109
2002    2977
12003    2032          22.80     170.22    2.25



Table 9.7: First-Year Return Test for the Eldorado-Vilarinho Link
Discount Discount NPV in year 6 NPV in year 6
Project Calendar Investment  rate  rate     at 10%      at 12%    Benefits in
Year    Year     Costs    10%     12%    (US$ 1000)   (US$ 1000)   Year 7
1     1995     7,399   1.772   1.974       13,107      14,604
2     1996    24,698   1.611   1.762      39,777       43,527
3     1997    51,480   1.464   1.574       75,372      81,004
4     1998    36,791   1.331   1.405      48,969       51,689
5     1999    14,917   1.210   1.254       18,050      18,712
6     2000     5,406   1.100   1.120        5,947       6,055
7     2001     4,064   1.000   1.000       4,064        4,064
TOTAL      205,285     219,654
Annual     20,528       26,359   53,425
z
z
m
x
Co



-79-                                     ANNEX 9
Table 9.8: Proposed Infrastructure and Equipment Component - Project Impacts and Standard
Cost-Benefit Analysis
TYPE OF IMPACT                       PROJECT IMPACT                         CAPTURED BY
STANDARD COST-
BENEFIT ANALYSIS?
A. Accessibility  1. Promotes the interconnection between residential and  1. No
and creation of   employment areas and social equipment (hospitals, schools)
new opportunities  facilities.
2. Strengthens existing subcenters.                     2. No
3. Creates new employment poles in the periphery.       3. No
4. It favors the development of new employment and housing  4. No
poles.
5. It softens the effects of the radial concentric structure of the 5. No
city.
6. It will alter the distribution of the destinations which were  6. No
previously concentrated in the central business district and shift
them to the north, south, east and west of the BHMR.
7. It will encourage new subcenters of economic activity which 7. No
otherwise would not be started.
Land Use and      1. It increases land values due to lower generalized travel costs 1. Partially through
Value             by public transport and by auto even without changes in the  the operating cost
zoning law.                                             savings
2. It increases the dynamics of the real estate market which is  2. No
reflected by the occupation of empty lots and the renewal of
older buildings in the area of influence of the existing line.
Employment        1. It will promote the creation of jobs with multiplier effects in  1. No
Generation       several sectors of the economy, with an estimate of 7000
direct and indirect jobs.
Trip Quality      1. It will improve trip quality insofar as reliability, comfort and  1. No. It can be by
safety are concerned.                                   considering a saving
of four minutes for
each new metro trip.
Road Use         1. It will reduce congestion by eliminating a great number of  1. Yes, through the
buses from the area of influence.                       time savings
2. It will increase the average vehicle speed in the BHMR.  2. Yes, through the
operating cost
3. It will reduce the number of road accidents.         savings
3. Yes
Air Quality       1. It contributes to a reduction of 14 percent in bus emissions.  1. Yes
Noise             1. It will reduce the level of noise in the area of influence of the 1. No
new line from 70 dB to 55 dB which is the level recommended
by the WHO.                                            I
Fuel Consumption  1. It will be reduced by 14 percent.                   1. Yes



- 80 -                              ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
1.           Past Financial Performance. Since its beginning in 1986, STU-BH has depended upon
subsidies to meet its operating deficits, to service its debt, and to undertake capital investments. With
about 13 million trips in 1994, STU-BH received about US$14 million in operational subsidies that year
to cover its working expenditures of US$18.5 million. The resulting working ratio was thus 6.87 and
the internally generated revenues were barely enough to cover 1 5 percent of the working costs.
Personnel expenses were responsible for about 77 percent of the working costs with the parts and
materials costs equal to 11 percent of the working cost.7' The remainder of the working cost covered
administrative expense, energy cost, and other miscellaneous expenditures. The financial situation,
however, has improved compared to previous years when revenue-cost-coverage barely reached 11
percent during the best years.
2.           The basic reasons for such weak performance can be traced to: (a) a low tariff
structure; (b) lack of ridership; and (c) high personnel costs. In 1 994, farebox revenue per trip was only
US$0.22 compared to US$1.40 needed to cover the working costs. On the other hand, high working
costs compared to revenues can be blamed on under-utilization of the system since the current traffic
is only one-sixth of what the system was originally designed to carry. Low volumes of demand can be
partially explained due to the short length of the network since the originally planned network could
not be completed due to resource constraints. Had the anticipated demand materialized, working cost
coverage could have been about 65 percent given the current tariff structure. That would have been
in line with most of the systems of this type.
3.           STU-BH's cost structure is dominated by high fixed costs made up of personnel which
amounted to 77 percent of working cost in 1994. At a level of production of 3 million car/km per year
in 1994, car-km per employee excluding administration were 7.7 which is on the low side given the
age and the length of the system. Similarly, working cost per car-km also was high at US$6.2
compared to less than US$4.0 observed in the case of more efficient systems, and hence points to
high cost of labor in the total cost structure. However, STU-BH has made extensive efforts to improve
throughput and the car-km/operational employee have increased every year since 1 989. Likewise cost
performance has improved during 1 990-1 994 in relation to the total car-km operated.
4.           On the revenue side, farebox revenues are the main source of internally generated funds
which have traditionally been insufficient to cover working costs. Reliance on extra operational sources
such as rental income and revenue from selling advertisement is marginal. STU-BH, however, has
collaborated with the private sector to develop some of its stations (e.g., Minas Shopping) but these
joint ventures have been so far restricted to capital investments. These joint-ventures have helped STU-
BH improve the network without using its own capital budget and should be fostered.
5.           Financial Projections. Completion of the new capital projects will expand STU-BH's
operations by almost 67 percent-from 16.8 km to 28.1 km in length. Growth in demand is expected
to be even higher since besides the increased size of the network, the new system will operate with
shorter headway and a higher number of integrated stations. The bus routes will be redesigned by
7/    Actual material cost was some what higher than uss 1,952 thousand in 1994 since under the Brazilian law repairs with
life expectancy of more than one year are treated as capital expense. Nonetheless, given the age and size of the
current system a substantially higher number is not likely.



- 81 -                             ANNEX 10
BHTRANS and DER-MG to feed the system. Both the operating costs and operating revenues can be
expected to grow accordingly.
Table 10.1: STU-BH's Projected Income Statement
1994      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002
Operating Income          2,688    14,608   18,044    19,502   46,190     47,689
Working Expenses         18,460    35,427   43,038    46,539    48,479    49,509
Working Ratio             6.87     2.43      2.39      2.39      1.05      1.04
Non-Operating Income      1,757      358       589       796     2,310     2,384
Working Cost Coverage     24%      42%       43%       44%     100%       101%
Passengers (mil.)            13       41        44        48      105        106
6.           Projected costs and revenues show a continuing improvement in cost recovery as the
current investment program of expanding the network is first implemented until the Sao Paulo terminal
followed by another extension of about 6.5 km to Vilarinho. By 2001, one year after the last of the
scheduled capital programs is completed, total revenues (operating + non-operating) are projected to
cover all of working costs. The increase in the cost coverage is achieved by a 1,618 percent
improvement in operating revenues versus a 1 63 percent increase in working costs. The total revenue
during this period is projected to increase by about 991 percent.
7.           Between 1995-2001, STU-BH's operating revenues are expected to increase by 61
percent annually largely because of new demand resulting from the extension of the network, better
integration between bus lines and the metro system as well as a 73 percent increase in the value of
average tariff-from US$0.28 (1995) to US$0.50 (2001). Non-operational income made up from the
rental of advertisement space and rental of properties is also expected to increase every year from
1 995 until it is about 5 percent of the operational income by the year 2001. From there on, it is
expected to maintain similar participation in the total revenue.
8.           Operating expenses are also expected to increase during 1995-2001 period but at a
lower rate than revenues. Working costs are expected to increase at about 1 7 percent annually. The
slower rate of operating expenses is justified on the basis of the current system having very low ratio
of variable cost to fixed cost: the number of employees is expected to double during 1995-2001
whereas total traffic is expected to increase eight times during this period. Furthermore, average tariff
is projected to increase at more than twice the rate of increase in personnel cost. On the other hand,
spare parts and materials costs are expected to increase by 30 percent every year between 1 994-2001
in order to replenish current low levels of inventory.
9.           Financial ForecastAssumptions. The financial forecasts are based on March 1995 US$.
To develop the financial forecast, the following major assumptions have been considered in addition
to STU-BH's past financial performance.
During the period 1994-2001, demand is expected to increase with the
commencement of operations to the following stations by the end of the respective
years: (a) Santa Inos in 1995; (b) Minas Shopping in 1996; (c) Sao Paulo in 1997; (d)
Heli6polis in 1998; (e) Laranjeiras in 1999; and (f) Vilarinho in 2000. Accordingly,
traffic would increase as these stations open. Starting in 2002, traffic is expected to
grow at 1 percent per annum;



- 82 -                              ANNEX 10
*     Tariffs are expected to increase in real terms during 1 995-2005. Average tariff is
expected to increase by 73 percent between 1996-2001 and another 11 percent
during 2001-2005. Since average tariff is derived after discounting for promotional and
incentive tickets, integrated tickets, and multi-passes, the selling prices of tickets (face-
value) may be different from the average tariff;
*      Students are expected to pay half of the full fare ticket. The other half will be
compensated to STU-BH by the government along with the compensation for gratuitos
based on the full face-value of one-way tickets;
*     Non-operational incomes is expected to be about 5 percent of the operational income
by 2001, including income from advertisement. These results are similar to those
observed in other rapid transit systems;
Personnel expenses are expected to rise by 3 percent during the projection period. This
is in addition to the increase in the personnel cost due to added employment.
*      Energy cost is assumed to vary in direct proportion to car-km during the projection
period.
*      Spare and material cost is expected increase at 20 percent more than the change in
car-km to enhance their participation in the working costs. The increased expenses
associated with materials is in response to currently low maintenance expenditure.
10.          Sensitivity Analysis. The financial forecast is most likely to be affected by changes in
total revenue due to: (a) STU-BH's inability to raise the average tariff above the level of 1994; (b)
delays in the construction of new projects, especially the proposed Sao Paulo - Vilarinho line; and (c)
less-than-expected growth in traffic volume. The financial forecast assumes an increase in the average
tariff of 54 percent between 1995-2001; however, STU-BH may find it difficult to raise tariffs in real
term beyond the expected increase to US$0.39 in order to match the prevailing bus tariff. Maintaining
the average tariff at US$0.36 would cost the state treasury an additional US$73 million in operational
subsidies (not including depreciation) between 1997-2005 and would increase the working ratio in
2001 to 1.35 (instead of 1.05).
11.          Assuming there is a delay of one year in the completion of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho
section, average annual subsidy during 1995-2005 would increase from US$8.8 million to US$11
million. Similarly, year 2001 working ratio would worsen to 2.31 but would bounce back to near 1.00
due largely to new traffic the following year. Similarly, less-than-estimated traffic volumes realized
during 2001-2005 would adversely effect the profitability of STU-BH. Assuming that the realized traffic
during 2001-2005 is 20 percent less than the forecast, working ratio in 2001 will worsen to 1.31 and
will cost the state treasury an additional US$52 million in subsidies.
12.          Further, to assess a possible decrease in revenue, additional sensitivity tests were
based on increasing the working costs. An increase of 20 percent in the working costs over those
projected under the base case show similar results to those observed in the case of a fall in revenue,
that is, working ratio worsens, in this case to 1.26 in year 2001. However, as the underestimation in
costs would be uniform over the years, the state will need to put in an additional US$75 million in
subsidies. In the worst of all cases, if all of the above mentioned scenarios are realized, working ratio
in 2001 would worsen to 3.45 and the cost coverage would decrease to 29 percent. This
performance, although very pessimistic, would still be better than the 1994 financial results.



- 83 -                             ANNEX 10
13.          On the other hand, the project could benefit from a reduction in employment due to
possible outsourcing of services. While no comparisons were made of the cost of outsourcing versus
in-house provision of services such as maintenance, ticket sales, security, etc., it is assumed that the
costs realized through outsourcing would be at the most as much as the provision of these service in-
house. Any savings, therefore, would further improve the financial performance of STU-BH.



- 84-                                   ANNEX 10
Table 10.2: Income Statement 1990-1994
(Thousands of US$)
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
OPERATING REVENUE
Farebox Revenue             1,135    1,574     1,622    1,652    2,688
Gratuitos Imposed by Govt.     0         0        0         0        0
Total Operating Revenue     1,135    1,574     1,622    1,652    2,688
NON-OPERATING INCOME
Rental & Other                 4        15       34        32       38
Advertisement Space             0        0        0         0        0
Other t                      237       377     1,412    1,690    1,719
Total Non-operating Income   241       392     1,446    1,722    1,757
Total Income                1,376    1,966     3,068    3,374    4,445
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                  12,949   10,919    12,161   17,405   14,259
Spares and Materials        2,187    1,574     1,282    2,282     1,952
Electricity                  574       410      435       539      665
Administration/Other        1,837    1,294      985     2,062     1,585
Total Working Costs        17,546   14,197    14,862   22,287   18,460
Net Working Income            (16,411)  (12,623)  (13,240)  (20,635)  (15,772)
Depreciation                 954     1,743     1,510    1,505     1,682
Deferred Expenses            553       701     1,180      986    2,874
Total Operating Expenses   19,053   16,641    17,552   24,778   23,016
Net Operating Income          (17,918)  (15,067)  (15,930)  (23,126)  (20,328)
Income for the Year           (17,677)  (14,675)  (14,484)  (21,404)  (18,571)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Working Ratio               15.46     9.02      9.16    13.49     6.87
Working Cost Coverage          6%      11%      11%        7%      15%
Personnel Cost:
% of Total Revenue      941%     555%      396%     516%     321%
% of Working Costs       74%      77%       82%      78%      77%
t Mainly monetary fluctuations due to inflationary changes.



- 85 -                                 ANNEX 10
Table 10.3: Annual Passenger Trips 1990-1994
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994
DAILY TRAFFIC                    40,317   41,677   33,135   36,767    40,709
Total Passengers ('000)          13,063   13,503   10,736   11,913    13,190
Full Fare Passengers           8,771    9,183    5,165    5,394     4,545
Free Riders Imposed by Govt.   3,846    3,834    5,046    5,718     7,879
Students
Gratuitos                       446      486      525      801       766
Average Tariff (USS)
Full Fare Passengers           $0.12    $0.15    $0.28    $0.25     $0.28
Transfers                      $0.08    $0.09    $0.10    $0.09     $0.19
Students                       $0.00    $0.00    $0.00    $0.00     $0.00
Trips refers to "linked trips" only, i.e., from origin to fiani destination is considered one single trip.



- 86 -                                 ANNEX 10
Table 10.4: Personnel Costs
(Thousand of US$)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
WORKFORCE (count)
Maintenance                 261      229      233      228       226
Gratuitos Imposed by Govt.  180      159       173      175      172
Administration              223      200       174      177      178
Total Workforce         664      588      580      580       576
TOTAL SALARY
Maintenance                2,811    2,304    2,990    4,001    3,446
Operations                 2,108    1,603    2,093    3,501    2,495
Administration             3,212    3,005    2,492    3,501    2,971
Total Workforce       8,131    6,912    7,576    11,003    8,912
BENEFITS
Maintenance                1,706    1,402    1,794    2,301    2,020
Operations                 1,205     902     1,196    2,101    1,426
Administration             1,907    1,703    1,595    2,001    1,901
Total Workforce           0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL PERSONNEL COST
Maintenance                4,517    3,706    4,785    6,302    5,466
Operations                 3,313    2,504    3,289    5,602    3,921
Administration             5,119  4708.193   4,087    5,502    4,872
Total Workforce      12,949   10,919   12,161    17,405   14,259
COST PER EMPLOYEE (US$)
Maintenance               17,307   16,185   20,535   27,640   24.186
Operations                18,403   15,751   19,014   32,009   22,798
Administration            22,957   23,541   23,488   31,082   27,370
Total Workforce      19,502   18,570   20,967   30,009   24,755
Table 10.5: Energy Costs
(Thousand of US$)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Car Km ('000)              2,131    2,109    2,354    2,715    2,993
PassengerKilometers(mil.)   116      120       95      106       117
Total Electric Cost         574      410      435      539       665



-87-                                       ANNEX 10
Table 10.6: Income Staternent 1995-2005
(Thousands of March 1995 US$)
1995    1996   1997    1998   1999    2000   2001    2002   2003    2004   2005
OPERATING REVENUE
Farebox revenues         3,363  11,673  12,617  13,637  16,846  18,209  42,987  44,382  46,287  48,005  49,802
Gratuitos Imposed by Govt.  277    832    898     970   1,198  1,293   3,203  3,307   3,449  3,577   3,711
Students                     0     119    128     139    171     185    458     472    493     511    530
Total Operating Revenue  3,640  12,505  13,515  14,608  18,044  19,502  46,190  47,689  49,736  51,582  53,513
NON-OPERATING INCOME
Rental & Other               0     61     132     215    354     478   1,386  1,431   1,492  1,547   1,605
Advertisement Space          0      41     88     143    236     318    924     954    995    1,032  1,070
Total Non-operating Income   0     102    221     358    589     796   2,310  2,384   2,487  2,579   2,676
Total Income              3,640  12,607  13.736  14,966  18,633  20,298  48,500  50,073  52,223  54,161  56,189
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                14,687  17,922  18,460  23,294  29,832  32,650  33,630  34,639  35,678  36,748  37,851
Spares and Materials      2,985  3.916   4,847  7,699   8,417  8,897   9,615  9,615   9,615  9,615   9,615
Electriciy                 848   1,112   1,376  2,186   2,390  2,526   2,730  2,730   2,730  2,730   2,730
Contract Work              370     459    494     664    813     881    920     940    960     982   1,004
Administration/Other      1,585  1,585   1,585  1,585   1,585  1,585   1,585  1,585   1,585   1,585  1,585
Total Working Costs     20,475 24,994   26,762  35,427  43,038  46,539  48,479  49,509  50,568  51,660  52,785
Net Working Income         (16,834) (12,489) (13,246) (20,820) (24,994) (27,037) (2,289) (1,820)  (832)  (78)  729
Depreciation              6,152  8,799  11,446  13,446  13,446  13,446  18,762  16,202  16,202  16,202  16,202
Deferred Expenses          890     890    890     435       0      0    (430)  (430)   (430)  (430)   (430)
Total Operating Expenses  27,517  34,683  39,098  49,309  56,484  59,986  66,812  65,281  66,341  67,433  68,557
Net Operating Income       (23,876) (22,179) (25,583) (34,701) (38,440) (40,483) (20,622) (17,592) (16,604) (15.850) (15,044)
Income forthe Year         (23,876) (22,077) (25,362) (34,343) (37,851) (39,687) (18,312) (15,207) (14.118) (13,271) (12.368)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Working Cost Ratio         5.62   2.00    1.98   2.43    2.39   2.39    1.05   1.04    1.02    1.00   0.99
Working Cost Coverage      18%     50%    51%     42%    43%     44%   100%    101%   103%    105%   106%
Personnel Costs:
% of Total Revenue    403%   142%    134%   156%    160%   161%     69%    69%     68%    68%     67%
% of Working Costs     72%    72%     69%    66%     69%    70%     69%    70%     71%    71%     72%



- 88 -                                      ANNEX 10
Table 10.7: Passenger Trips 1995-2005
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
DAILY TRAFFIC              43,966 107,791 116,414 125,728 135,786 146,649 322,832 326,060 329,321 332,614 335,940
Total Passengers ('000)    14,245  34,924  37,718  40,736  43,995  47,514 104,596 105,644 106,700 107,767 108,845
Full Fare Passengers     6,125  13,791  13,571  13,226  12,740  12,091  20,920  21,129  21,340  21,553  21,769
Transfers                7,123  18,951  22,075  25,577  29,499  33,884  76,356  77,120  77,891  78,670  79,457
Gratuitos                 748    1,834   1,980  2,139   2,310   2,494   5,491   5,546   5,602   5,658   5,714
Students                  249     611     660     713     770     831   1,830   1,849   1,867   1,886   1,905
Transport Tariff (US$)
Full Fare                $0.28   $0.39   $0.39  $0.39   $0.44   $0.44   $0.50   $0.51   $0.53   $0.54   $0.56
Transfer Fare (Metros share) $0.23  $0.33  $0.33  $0.33  $0.37  $0.37   $0.42   $0.43   $0.44   $0.46   $0.47
Student Fare             $0.00   $0.19   $0.19  $0.19   $0.22   $0.22   $0.25   $0.26   $0.26   $0.27   $0.28
Avnage Tariff            $0.26   $0.36   $0.36   $0.36  $0.41   $0.41   $0.44   $0.45   $0.47   $0.48   $0.49
ASSUMPTIONS
Average Tariff (R$)
Full Fare                $0.25   $0.35   $0.35  $0.35   $0.40   $0.40   $0.45   $0.46   $0.48   $0.49   $0.50
Integrated Fare          $0.35   $0.49   $0.49  $0.49   $0.56   $0.56   $0.63   $0.64   $0.67   $0.68   $0.70
Students                 $0.00   $0.18   $0.18  $0.18   $0.20   $0.20   $0.23   $0.23   $0.24   $0.24   $0.25
Exchange Rate                  0.
Number of Days/Year           324
Annual Growth Factors:
1994-1995                  8%
2001-2010                  1%
Fare sharing ratio           60%
Student Discount              50%
Passenger Types:
Full Fare                 43%     39%     36%     32%     29%     25%     20%     20%    20%     20%     20%
Integrated                50%     54%     59%     63%     67%     71%     73%     73%    73%     73%     73%
Gratuitos                  7%      7%      7%      7%      7%      7%      7%     7%      7%      7%      7%
Students               2%      2%      2%      2%     2%      2%      2%      2%      2%      2%      2%



- 89 -                                  ANNEX 10
Table 10.8: Personnel Costs 1995-2005
(Thousands of March 1995 US$)
1995   1996   1997   1998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004  2005
WORKFORCE (count)
Maintenance               226    294    294   373    451    478    478    478    478   478    478
Operations                172    189    189   254    373    415    415    415    415   415    415
Administration            178    200    200    215   231    231    231    231    231    231   231
Total Workforce       576   683    683    842  1,055  1,124  1,124  1,124  1,124  1,124  1,124
TOTAL SALARY
Maintenance              3,549  4,756  4,898  6,401  7,972  8,703  8,964  9,233  9,510  9,795 10,089
Operations               2,570  2,909  2,996  4,147  6,273  7,189  7,405  7,627  7,856  8,091  8,334
Administration           3,060  3,541  3,647  4,038  4,469  4,603  4,741  4,884  5,030  5,181  5,336
Total Workforce     9,179 11,206 11,542 14,587 18,714 20,495 21,110 21,743 22,395 23,067 23,759
TOTAL BENEFITS
Maintenance             2,081  2,788  2,871  3,752  4,673  5,102  5,255  5,412  5,575  5,742  5,914
Operations               1,469  1,662  1,712  2,370  3,585  4,108  4,231  4,358  4,489  4,624  4,762
Administration           1,958  2,266  2,334  2,585  2,860  2,946  3,034  3,125  3,219  3,316  3,415
Total Workforce     5,508  6,716  6,918  8,707 11,118 12,156 12,520 12,896 13,283 13,681 14,092
TOTAL PERSONNEL EXPENSE
Maintenance             5,630  7,544  7,770 10,153 12,645 13,804 14,218 14,645 15,084 15,537 16,003
Operations               4,039  4,571  4,708  6,517  9,858 11,297 11,636 11,985 12,345 12,715 13,096
Administration           5,018  5,807  5,982  6,623  7,329  7,549  7,776  8,009  8,249  8,497  8,752
Total Workforce    14,687 17,922 18,460 23,294 29,832 32,650 33,630 34,639 35,678 36,748 37,851
COST PER EMPLOYEE (US$)
Maintenance            24,911 25,659 26,428 27,221 28,038 28,879 29,745 30,638 31,557 32,503 33,479
Operations              23,482 24,186 24,912 25,659 26,429 27,222 28,038 28,880 29,746 30,638 31,558
Administration          28,191 29,037 29,908 30,805 31,729 32,681 33,661 34,671 35,711 36,783 37,886
Total Workforce    25,498 26,240 27,028 27,665 28,277 29,048 29,920 30,818 31,742 32,694 33,675
ASSUMPTIONS
Salary Increase/Year     3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%  3.00%
Table 10.9: Energy Costs 1995-2005
(Thousands of March 1995 US$)
1995   1996   1997  1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003  2004   2005
ELECTRIC SERVICE
CarKm('000)             3,816  5,006  6,196  9,841 10,759 11,372 12,290 12,290 12,290 12,290 12,290
Pass-km (millions)        126    309    334   361    390    421   1,005  1,015  1,025  1,036  1,046
Total Electric Cost        848  1,112  1,376  2,186  2,390  2,526  2,730  2,730  2,730  2,730  2,730



- 90 -                                           ANNEX 10
Table 10.10: Balance Sheet 1994-2005
(Thousands of March 1995 US$J
1994    1S96    1996     1997     199S    1S99    2000     2001    2002    2003    2004    2006
ASSETS
Current Assets              3,346   2,943   2,943   2.943     2,943   2,943   2,943   2,#3     3,508   4,598   5,444   6,347
Permanent Assets          367.271  434,076  471,814  527,964  564,739 572.324 566,684  554,389 538,617 522,845 507,073 491,300
Net Fixed Assets        25,685 204,842  288,697  369,905  426,459 413.012 399.566 588.255  542,053 525,851  509,650 493,448
Fixed Assets        30,003 215,312  307,966  400,620  470,620 470.620 470,620 648.071  648,071  648,071  648,071  648,071
Acc. Depreciation   (4,318) (10,470) (19,269) (30,715)  (44,161) (57,608) (71.054) (89.816) (106,018) (122,220) (138,421) (154,623)
Work in Progress       338,480 227,019  181,791  157,624  138,280  159,312  167.118    0       0       0        0       0
Net Deferred Assets      3,106   2,216   1,325     435        0        0       0   (3,866)  (3,436)  (3,007)  (2,577)  (2,148)
Deferred Assets      8,903   8,903   8,903   8,903     8,903   8,903   8,903   4808    4,608    4,608   4,608   4,608
Acc. Deferred Expense  (5,797)  (6,687)  (7,578)  (8.468)  (8,903)  (8,903)  (8,903)  (8,474)  (8,044)  (7,615)  (7,185)  (6,756)
Total Assets              370,617  437,019 474.757  530.907  567,682 575,267 569,627  657,353 542,125 527,443 512,517  497,648
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liability           9,999  10,000   10,000   2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000    2,000
Equity                    360,618 427,019 464,757  528,907  565.682  573,267 567,627 555,353  540,125 525,443 510,517 495,648
Capital                115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194  115,194
Additional Contribution  332,235 422,512  482,429  572,162  643.637  689,663 689,663 186,663  689,663 689,663 689,663 689,663
Accumulated Deficit    (86,811) (110,687) (132,866) (158,449) (193.150) (231,590) (272.073) (292,696) (310,287) (326,891) (342,742) (357,785)
Total Liabilities and Equity  370,617 437,019 474,757  530,907 567681.65 575,267 569,627 557,353 542,125 527,443 512,517 497,648



- 91 -                                        ANNEX 10
Table 10.11: Sources and Applications of Funds 1994-2005
(Thousands of March 1995 US$
1994    1995   1996    1997   1998    1999   2000    2001   2002    2003    2004   2005
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Operating Revenue   (20,328) (23,876) (22,179) (25.583) (34,701) (38,440) (40,483) (20,622) (17,592) (16,604) (15,850) (15,044)
Net Non-Operating Income  1,757      0    102     221    358     589    796   2,310   2,384   2,487  2,579   2,676
Depreciation              1,682  6,152   8,799  11,446  13,446  13,446  13,446  18,762  16,202  16,202  16,202  16,202
Deferred Expense          2,874    890    890     890    435       0      0    (430)   (430)   (430)  (430)   (430)
Total from Operations   (14,015) (16,834) (12,387) (13,026) (20,462) (24,404) (26,241)  20  565  1,655  2,501  3,404
Other Sources
Capital Subsides         37,777  43,778  49,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6,038
IBRD Loan                0   3,882  17,381  35,022  25,500  10,587  3,929  3,040
Counterpart Funds        0   5,816  15,159  34,548  25,156  10,445  3,877  2,998
Other Capital Invest.  37,777  34,080  17,000  0       0      0       0       0
Operating Subsidy        14,015  16,834  12,387  13,026  20,462  24.404  26,241
Total Sources of Funds      37,777  43,778  49,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6,058   565   1,655   2,501  3,404
APPLICATIONS
Investment Program          37,777  43,778  49,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6,038
To Sao Paulo             37,777  34,080  17,000     0      0       0      0       0
To Vilanova                  0   9,698  32,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6,038
Change in Working Capital       0       0      0       0       0      0       0     20     565   1,655   2,501  3,404
Total Applications of Funds  37,777  43,778  49,540  69,570  50,656  21,032  7,806  6.058  565   1,655   2,501  3,404



- 92 -                             ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, MONITORING, EVALUATION
AND SUPERVISION PLAN
A. Project Implementation Schedule
1.           The implementation schedule for individual components are shown in Annex 8. Those
schedules and the detailed cost tables of Annex 8 provide the basis for project monitoring and for the
disbursement prc,file.
2.           The project would consist of three inter-related parts. Part A comprises two main
works: (a) the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link; and (b) the access works to the stations. Part B comprises
two studies and one civil work: (a) the inspection/maintenance study; (b) the traffic management,
safety and control study; and (c) the acquisition and installation of the centralized traffic control. Part
C comprises a series of studies described in detail in Annex 7.
3.          Implementation Monitoring. CBTU will monitor compliance with the individual
implementation schedules by defining target dates for key actions. The target dates for key actions for
the first two years of the project (to about mid-1997) are shown in the Action Plan in this Annex. In
November of each year CBTU will prepare, with the agreement of the Bank, a similar action plan for
the following year of implementation, and so on throughout the life of the project. In the event of
delays, CBTU will be responsible for identification of the constraints and for devising and executing
policies to resolve problems.
4.           Financial progress will be monitored by CBTU in the same manner as implementation
progress. Estimates of costs of Part A have been made but final costs will be dependent on
consultants' final engineering designs and on bid prices (for equipment etc.). Thus, it will be the
responsibility of CBTU to update cost schedules as contracts and bids are finalized and to monitor
financial progress in relation to the updated schedules.
5.           CBTU will report on both implementation and financial progress in the biannual progress
reports.
6.           Evaluation of Part A of the project will attempt to determine the extent to which original
construction schedules and costs are respected.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Components
7.           Monitoring would identify the physical, institutional and financial status of each
subproject component, as appropriate, on a periodic basis. The aim would be to identify implementa-
tion problems and the extent of deviation from the targets proposed at appraisal. The results of the
monitoring program (the comparison of achieved performance with appraisal targets) will be presented
in the biannual Progress Reports prepared and coordinated by CBTU. The results of each subcomponent
monitoring program will provide the basis and information for implementing agencies to prepare
measures and actions to resolve implementation problems, if any, and at the same time, to update
project costs, disbursement and implementation schedules if necessary. Monitoring indicators to be
employed will vary by type of component but the general guidelines are set out in the following
paragraphs.



-93-                               ANNEX 11
8.           The general guidelines given below would be followed:
(a)   each implementing agency would prepare, as part of its component preparation
report, an implementation schedule which sets out target dates for key actions
for physical works, equipment supply and institutional components. Where
components are not fully prepared at appraisal, it would be a condition of their
subsequent inclusion that an implementation schedule be prepared as an
integral part of the component;
(b)   for physical works (and equipment) progress the implementation schedule will
define target dates (to the nearest quarter) for the start and finish of key
actions involved in the implementation of physical works (and supply of
equipment). Thus indicators are likely to include:
(i)    start/finish dates for final engineering design and documents for works
(or equipment);
(ii)   date of issue of bid documents;
(iii)  date of contract signature; and
(iv)   start/finish dates for works (or supply of equipment).
(c)   for financial performance since works (or supply of equipment) are likely to
extend over some time, the component implementation schedule will also be
required to give target "percentage completed" by quarter. Thus target
expenditures can be estimated and will be used to monitor financial
(disbursement) performance on a quarterly basis;
(d)   for institutional measures (technical assistance, training and studies), the
monitoring targets will be the progress reports and the dates of completion
indicated in the implementation plan of Annex 7; and
(e)   monitoring of resettlement and property values in the area of influence of the
STU-BH before, during and after construction.
9.           Ex-post evaluation would be aimed at determining the effectiveness and efficiency of
measures in meeting the objectives determined at appraisal. In the event that objectives are not met
and previously anticipated improvements in performance are not achieved, the data would be used:
(a) to identify why components had not been fully successful; and (b) to modify future components
proposed for subsequent implementation which were based on similar premises. Furthermore, the ex-
post evaluation would be used as a major input to the Project Implementation Report.
10.          Quantitative performance targets have been established for STU-BH and are shown
below.
Table 111.1: Quantitative Performance Targets for STU-BH
Target              1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
Total number of passengers carried  35   38     41     44     48     105    106
per year (millions of linked trips)                                               l
Staff costs as a % of total revenue  142%  134%  156%  160%  161 %  69%     69%
Revenue Cost Coverage            50%    51%    42%    43%    44%    100%   101%
Working Ratio                    2.00   1.98   2.43   2.39   2.39    1.05   1.04



- 94 -                              ANNEX 11
11.          The qualitative monitoring indicators will be: (a) the date of the establishment of the
Regional Transport Coordination Commission as compared to the agreed date in Section IV of the main
text and its effectiveness in meeting the basic objectives described in Annex 3; (b) the completion of
a financing mechanisms study and an action plan to carry out its recommendations which should take
place before the Mid-term Project Review; (c) the pace of the implementation of the bus integration
plan after the entry into operation of each link of the Sao Paulo - Vilarinho link and the completion of
any of the proposed accesses to the stations of the Eldorado - Sao Paulo link; this should be done no
later than 30 days after the entry of operation of the link or stations; and (d) the results of a train user
survey, to be carried out every two years after effectiveness until project completion, by an
independent firm, to gauge the satisfaction of the users with the level of service offered by the system.
All the above qualitative monitoring indicators would be rated on a scale of 0 (unsatisfactory) to 5
(excellent).
12.          Bank Supervision. The main emphasis during the initial project phase would be to: (a)
review the development and implementation of the project monitoring system; (b) make certain that
CBTU's staff is familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, Bank disbursement procedures (i.e., Special
Account transactions), and Bank independent auditing requirements; (c) ensure that all steps towards
decentralization of STU-BH to the State are being taken; and (d) help CBTU/RTCC's development of
a strategy to properly promote the project to the BHMR public. Many of these items would be
addressed in the first supervision mission scheduled for November 1995. During project
implementation, the supervision missions would need to conduct the following activities in the field
on a regular basis in addition to monitoring project progress: (a) review a sampling of contract bids
and awards; (b) inspect disbursement procedures and record-keeping; (c) inspect adequacy of
supervision and monitoring of the implementing agencies and respective subprojects; (d) review
performance and accuracy of the Project Monitoring System; and (e) complete a Mid-term Review 24
months after project effectiveness to examine the progress made, especially in the Integrated Land
Use, Urban Transport, and Air Quality Strategy and policies to assess the relevance of project
objectives and actions, and recommend appropriate revisions (as needed). Supervision missions in the
field should attempt to visit all the agencies dealing with the project during each trip. A preliminary
schedule of supervision missions including key activities is indicated in the table on the following page.
The key activities shown are in addition to the regular supervision needs, which include a review of:
(a) progress reports; (b) procurement issues; (c) disbursements; (d) Project Implementation Plan; (e)
project costs; (f) yearly independent audits; (g) correspondence; and (h) unforeseen issues.
13.          The Bank project team would consist of the Task Manager (Sr. Transport Plan-
ner/Economist), a Railway Engineer, a Metro Infrastructure Specialist, a Resettlement Specialist and
a Financial Analyst. Consultants are anticipated to be required on a short-term basis to assist in specific
areas, such as analysis of monitoring system, and review of institutional development programs.
Supervision requirements for the project are expected to be high due to: (a) the complexity of the
institutional arrangements; (b) the anticipated large number of small-scale subprojects; and (c) the
institutional weakness of CBTU (requiring significant training and technical assistance). Supervision
requirements are anticipated to be about 20 staff-weeks during the first year and about 12-1 5 staff-
weeks thereafter. A summary of key inputs is provided on the following page.
14.          Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. CBTU is expected to: (a) be responsible for
project monitoring and coordination, to keep the Project Monitoring System accurate, and to follow-up
and address all issues which are "signaled" by the system; (b) be responsible for properly managing
all procurement and disbursement considerations, keeping procurement and disbursement records up
to date; (c) prepare progress reports in June and December of each year; and (d) be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for the Bank supervision missions.



-95-                                   ANNEX 1 1
Table 11.2: Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.                   Key Activities                       Expected Skill        Staff
Dates                                                          Requirements        Weeks
11/95    Supervision Mission-Project Effectiveness       Transport Planner            4.5
(Review: (i) conditions for project effectiveness - PIP,  Railway Specialist
POM, and Monitoring system; (ii) special coordinating  Metro lnf. Specialist
arrangements devised among several sectoral agencies Resettlement Specialist
participating in project implementation; and (iii) existing
financial and accounting systems/procedures)
12/95    Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner            5.0
(Project launch workshop, review Project Monitoring  Disbursement Specialist
System, selection of consultants)               Procurement Specialist
3/96     Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner/Economist  5.5
(Review Project Monitoring System,              Railway and Metro Engineer
Training/implementation, institutional development in-  Resettlement Specialist
cluding training programs)
6/96     Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner            8.0
(Review results of first year Independent audit)  Railway and metro Engineer
11/96    Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner            7.0
(Concentrate on subprojects: (i) contracts; (ii) eligibili- Railway and metro Engineer
ty/limits; (iii) costs; and (iv) status)
1/97     Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner            8.0
(Concentrate on disbursements, financial status,  Railway and metro Engineer
Institutional development, public transport studies)  Consultant
6/97     Supervision Mission                             Transport Planner            7.0
(Concentrate on subproject status and implementation  Railway and metro Engineer
of recommendations of public transport study)
1998     Two Supervision Missions                        Transport Planner            13.0
Railway and metro Engineer
Consultant
1999     Three Supervision Missions                      Transport Planner            12.0
(Begin negotiations of follow-up loan, if Mid-term  Railway and metro Engineer
Review is favorable)                            Consultant
2000 to  Two Supervision Missions-Loan Closing           Transport Planner            1 2.0
2001     (Project closing, final negotiations for follow-up loan)  Railway and metro Engineer
E. Action Plan
1 5.          The Action Plan is based on the assumption that Negotiations will be held in May 1 995,
Board Presentation in June 1 995, and Effectiveness in October 1 995. The Action Plan represents key
actions to be taken in the first year; the second year action plan will be developed in March 1 996.



- 96 -                              ANNEX 11
Table 11.3: FY96 Action Plan
Action                      Date           Status      Observations
Submission to Bank of "Convenio       April 30, 1995      Done      "Convenio"
Basico"                                                             must be updated
Confirmation of engineering           April 15, 1995      Done
designs/costs for first year
Submission of draft resettlement report  April 1 5, 1995  Done
Submission of draft environmental     April 15, 1995      Done
impact statement
Negotiations                          May 22, 1995        Done
Board Presentation                    June 29, 1 995
Loan Effectiveness                   October 25, 1 995



Table 11.3: Project Implementation Schedule
STU - BH
1995           1 996           1997            1998           1999            2000           2001
I1  11  1111IV  I  11    11 lV  I  1 1 II I V  I  11 1II    IV  I  11 III  I V   I   II   IV  I   1  III  IV
1 - LAND EXPROPRIATION
2 -CIVIL WORKS
 Lot A
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
 Lot B
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
* Lot C
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding                                                                                                                                        CD
Works
* Lot D
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
*Buildings
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
*Viaducts
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding>
Works                                                                                                                                          Zz
m



Table 11.3: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
STU - BH
1995            1996           1 997           1998           1999            2000           2001
I    w1 11  I   IV  I 111 II IV  I    IIIV     I  11 Ill IV   I 11   II IV    Ill   Ill IV   Ill    Ill IV
* Road Traffic Control
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
* Road Accesses
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
4 - PERMANENT WAY
*Superstructure
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
5-SYSTEMS
5.1 - ELECTRIFICATION
* Catenary
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyAWorks
* Substations
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyAWorks
5.2 - SIGNALING
* Signaling
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyNVorks
z
 CTC & CPC                                                                                                                                      m
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 11.3: Project InVmementation Schedule ICon't)
STU - BH
1995            1996            1997            1998            1999            2000            2001
_ _ _  III IV I     U  Ui\1 IV  I   U  III PI                   I                   II II  IV  I if  III IV i_|in  III IV  I  1W II
5.3 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
* Cable & Radio Network
Preparation of Bidding Documents         V
Bidding
Supply/Works
* Public Address & Clock Systems
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/ Works
* Ticketing Control System_
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyAAWorks
* Telephone Central Station                                                                                                                          co
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplylWorks
* -WORKSHOPS
6.1 - Light Equipments
 Lot 1
Preparation of Bidding Documents         V
Bidding
Supply
 Lot 2
Preparation of Bidding Documents         V
Biddingz
Supply                                             --        
______  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  -  -  -    x



Table 11.3: Project Implementation Schedule ICon't)
STU - BH
1995           1996            1997           1998           1999           2000            2001
l    1_ III IV_  I  11   III  IV   I  11   III  IV  I  11   III   IV  I  1  1   II  lV   I  11  II IV   I  11  III  IV
 Lot 3
Preparation of Bidding Documents        V
Bidding
Supply
6       ELot 4
Preparation of Bidding Documents        V
Bidding
Supply
*Lot 5
Preparation of Bidding Documents        V
Bidding
Supply
6.2 -Heavy Equipments
* Lot 1                                      _
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply
* Lot 2
Preparation of Bidding Documents        V
Bidding
Supply
7 - ROLLING STOCK
*Refurbishment of EMUS
Preparation of Bidding Documents        V
Bidding
Supply/Works-                                       -   -  -   -   -
z
m
X



Table 11.3: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
STU - BH
1995            1996            1997           1998            1999            2000            2001
____________~~~I               1     WIII  I  u 11  nII,I  I I   iWi llI     I  I t   WT ulli  1W IIIIV   I i[ 11   itV   I  u   i1 II~II
* Assembling of EMUs
Preparation of Bidding Documents     V
Bidding
Works
8 -TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
* Supervision
Preparation of Bidding Documents         V
Bidding
Services
* T.A. & Studies
Preparation of Bidding Documents     V
Bidding
Services
9 - TRAINING
*Consultants
Preparation of Bidding Documents         V
Bidding
Services
z
m
x



- 102 -                               ANNEX 12
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN REGION: URBAN TRANSPORT CHARACTERISTICS
1.           This Annex contains basic socio-economic and transport data on the BHMR and
provides a snapshot of the modal split and involvement of each agency in the urban transport sector.
A. Demographic Data
Table 12.1: Population Growth in Brazil
(Thousands of Inhabitants)
Annual           Anmnal           Annual          Annual
Entity  1960   Growth   1970   Growth    t980    Growth   1990   Growth  2000 a/  2010
1%)              I%)              (%)             (%J
BHMR      888    6.5     1,650   6.1       2,610   4.7     4,941   2.0     5,160
Brazil  70,119   2.9    93,139   2.5     119,003   1.9   143,449   2.2    183,627 223,673
Source: PLAMBEL/IBGE/CEDEPLAR
a/ CBTU Estimate.
Table 12.2: Population of the Municipality of Belo Horizonte and BHMR
Area                     1980         1991        2000         2005
Belo Horizonte Municipality              1,780       2,020        2,952       3,197
|Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region       2,610        3,461        5,160       5,954
Source: IBGE/CEDEPLAR
B. Individual and Household Income of STU-BH Ridership
Table 12.3: STU-BH Ridership Income Profile
Monthly Income Range in %1
Min. Salaries       0       0-1     1-2       2-3      3-4       4-5        5
Individual        8.9      4.3     45.1     16.2      10.3      3.3       11.5
Household         1.5      1.3      20.8     15.5      11        9.3      40.6
Source: CBTU, 1992
Minimum Salary/Month=US$61.74 (Aug. 1992)



- 103 -                           ANNEX 12
Table 12.4: Population Growth in BHMR Municipalities
Municipality                                      Population      Annual Growth
1980       1991       RATE (%)
BELO HORIZONTE                               1,780,855  2,048,861     1.28
BETIM                                          84,183    170,616      6.63
BRUMADINHO                                     17,964     19,316      0.66
CAETE                                          30,634     33,440      0.80
CONTAGEM                                      280,477    448,822      4.37
ESMERALDAS                                     16,206     24,402      3.71
IBIRITE                                        39,970     91,760      7.85
IGARAPE                                        16,563     27,366      4.67
JUATUBA                                            ---     9,546       ---
LAGOA SANTA                                    19,508     29,707      3.90
MATEUS LEME                                    18,657     17,574      3.43
NOVA LIMA                                      41,223     52,202      2.17
PEDRO LEOPOLDO                                 29,999     41,586      3.01
RAPOSOS                                        11,810     14,167      1.67
RIB. DAS NEVES                                 67,257    143,874      7.16
RIO ACIMA                                       5,069      7,063      3.06
SABARA                                         64,204     89,679      3.08
SANTA LUZIA                                    59,892    137,602      7.86
SAO JOSE DA LAPA                                   ---     6,841       ---
VESPASIANO                                     25,049     47,747      7.34
TOTAL                                        2,609,520  3,461,877      ---
Source: Brazilian Demographic Census 1991 - IBGE



- 104 -                              ANNEX 12
Table 12.5: BHMR's Urban Transport Modal Split
Mode                              Number of Trips (000's)/day
and % of Total Trips
1993              %
Public Transport                                           2,146           41.65
Bus                                                     2,102           40.80
Mt,tro                                                    44             0.09
Rail
Private Transport                                           903            17.52
Automobile                                               746            14.50
Taxi and Jitney                                           21             0.02
Others                                                   137             2.70
Walking Trips                                              2,104           40.83
Total                              5,153             100
Source: CBTU/STU-BH
Table 12.6: BH Municipality Motorization Rate
Motorization Rate                               Actual                  Forecast
1985             1991             2000
Autos per 1000 Inhabitants               132             184              308
Source: DETRAN-MG/IBGE
Table 1 2.7: Number of Autos in BH Municipality
Area                    1980           1985         1991       1994
Belo Horizonte Municipality         280,897        404,483      637,292    713,093
Source: DETRAN-MG



- 105 -                           ANNEX 12
Table 12.8: Annual Passengers and Passenger-Kilometers
Carried and Forecast (STU-BH)
YEAR            PARAMETER            UNIT      VALUE
1989         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.     12,736,818
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM     112,180,000
1990         PASSENGERNYEAR         PASS.     13,062,838
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM     115.736,000
1991         PASSENGERNYEAR         PASS.     13,503,233
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM     119,638,000
1992         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.     10,735,804
PASSENGER.KM[YEAR      PAS.KM      95,119,000
1993         PASSENGERNYEAR         PASS.     11,913,007
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM     105,549,242
1994         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.     13,189,841
(BASE YEAR)    PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM     116,861,991
1996         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.     34,924,349
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM     309,429,729
1998         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.     40,735,760
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM     360,918,836
2000         PASSENGERNEAR          PASS.     47,514,191
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM     420,975,731
2001         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    104,597,568
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM     926,734,452
2002         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    105,643,544
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM   1,015,103,457
2003         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    106.699,979
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM   1,025,254,491
2004         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    107,766,979
PASSENGER.KM/YEAR      PAS.KM   1,035,507,036
2005         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    108,844,649
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM   1,045,862,107
2010         PASSENGER/YEAR         PASS.    114,396,820
PASSENGER.KMNYEAR      PAS.KM   1,099,211,585
Growth Factor       1994-2001           1.08
2001-2010           1.01



-106-                                ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Projeto BIRD-1: Metr6 de Belo Horizonte, DEMETRO, CBTU, March 1 995
2.     Rede de Transporte Integrada de Belo Horizonte, BHTRANS, 1993.
3.     Revisao da Planilha de Custos de Transporte Publico por Onibus de Belo Horizonte, BHTRANS,
Julho de 1 994.
4.     Sistema Integrado de Transporte Colectivo de Belo Horizonte, BHTRANS, 1 994.
5.     Sistema de Transporte-RMBH, CBTU, 1994
6.     Bonde Moderno na Regi5o Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte-Estudo de Viabilidade- Governo do
Estado de Minas Gerais, TCI, Setembro de 1 989.
7.     Trem Metropolitano de Belo Horizonte, CBTU, 1993
8.     Economic Evaluation of Segregated Busway versus Metro Rail System for the Sao Paulo -
Vilarinho Link. CBTU and Bank mission, December 1994.
9.     Detailed Economic Evaluation of Sao Paulo - Vilarinho Link. Bank mission, March 1 995.
10.   Review of Basic Engineering Design, Recife and Belo Horizonte, Toronto Transit Consultants,
March 1 995.



IBRD 26914
/.        GUYANA                                  44 00' 
\VENEZUELA, SURINAME                                           -VESPASIANO                 4
(.OL<)F .A~? K/,iFRENCH GUIANA                                  -_
, 0                                                              N' G  O-  //\0r  /
(                   RIBEIRAO                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N SANTA                LUZIA
(          BRAZIL                       DAS                           J                          N   T
PERU(       R                          NEVES      /                                         J
] BOLIVIA \                                   /
20 \    / i      elo*    20
CHILE   '"    Ho,izoone    /                                             A    Vilariniho                           -
1ARGENTINA.'                             I                                                                       I _
\R0 URUG)UAYi         I     9                                                      r) Flormar 
I__________.    _____  z  1950<       > -ou                                                                       \ 1050'F
ThIe bo-d--escolor \   /                                                                                             (
deoorninocons -nd ony 
'h-,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HeIpli6ds
oile.r : .f7lf"o flo sPoon -~ 
on   -,5 mop do  -0t                                                        -
,.ply  on  e  po o-f 
The W-rld Bonf G-op                                        ~ 
The  W0d d nooh  'legol                                             AIRPORT              Dona  Clcira           /
O1   -y  R   o-  Pd - -e ol                                        P A M P U L H A
or ocoeplonce of such                                                                                   J
Ao e  -Sao Paulo
Minas Shopping
CONTAGEM                                         BELO                                      SABARA
,/              H  O  R I Z O      N  T E       A*     Jose C. Silveira
Laognha          Sta. In^s
\                    ~~~~~~~~~      ~~Pratesb       Horto   \
- 19055                                                                                                                   Q 5
t Centr_> ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sta. Tereza\/
Entroncamento     Ceetr
|   f      _     C~~~~~~alafute             Sta. Efigenia o             +
Eldorado                       Gameleira                                                       o
BETIM       J             Cidade   Oeste
/           Industrial                                            p
N             -    ~~~~~< r v                                                  BRAZIL
BELO HORIZONTE
I METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
'       DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
200                                ,,'                             STU-BH
*   \                    /                     t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -.tE'
IBIRITE                                                                                    I RACK LINE
_      U *  *  STAT ONS
\\   /                                *         INTEGRATED TERMINALS
N.....                                                         RIV'ERS
\     I                                                   BU LT UP AREAS
0    I    2   3    4    I             /         '                                           --- MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS                  )        I                                              -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
44 05'                    _       s.      44 00                                    4, 55
MAY I 995









IMAGING
Report No:      14265 BR
Type: SAR



