                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No.: 36589




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                    BRAZIL

        RECIFE METROPOLITANTRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION
                               (LOAN 3915-BR)

             BELO HORIZONTEMETROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
                               (LOAN 3916-BR)

                                 June 27,2006




Sector, Thematic,and GlobalEvaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit    =  Brazilian Reals (R$)

2005: US$?.OO = R$2.49 (January-October)
2004: US$1.OO = R$2.93
2003: US$1.OO = R$3.08
2002: US$1.OO = R$2.92
2001: US$1.OO = R$2.36
2000: US$1.00 = R$1.83
1999: US$1.OO = R$1.81
1998: US$1.00= R$1.16
1997: US$1.OO = R$1.08
1996: US$1.OO = R$1.01
1995: US$1.OO = R$0.92




Abbreviations and Acronyms

AMBEL          Metropolitan Assembly of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
BHBUS          Plan to restructure the nnlunicipal bus system

BHMR           Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region

BHTRANS        Belo Horizonte Transport and Transit Company (Empresa de
               Transporte e Trdnsito de Belo Horizonte)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBTU           Brazilian Urban Railway Conlpany (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CMU            Country Management Unit
CPRH           Pernambuco Environmental Agency (Companhia Pernambucana d Controle a Poluicao
               Ambiental e de Administracao de Recursos Hidricos)
CTC            Centralized Traffic Control
CTRM           Transport Consortium of the Recife Metropolitan Region (Consdrcio de
               Transportes da Regirio Metropolitana do Recife)
CTTU           Recife Municipal Bus and Traffic Company (Companhia de Trdnsito e
               Transporte Urbano)
CTU             Municipality of Recife Bus Company (Companhia de Transportes Urbanos)
DER-MG          Minas Gerais State Roads Directorate (Diregriode Estradas de Rodagem)
DER-PE         Pernambuco State Roads Directorate (Diregio de Estradas de Rodagem)
DETRAN-PE Pernambuco State Transit Department (Departamento Estadual de Transito de
               Pernambuco)
EBTU           Brazilian Urban Transport Company (Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos)

ERR             Economic Rate of Return
EMTU           Metropolitan Urban Transport Company
                (Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos)
EMU             Electric Multiple Unit
GEIPOT          National Transport Planning Agency (Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICR             Iniplementation Completion Report
IEG             Independent Evaluation Group (formerly, OED Operations Evaluation Department)
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
METROREC        Popular name of the Central line of the Recife Train Subdivision of CBTU
MREC            Municipality of Recife
MT              Ministry of Transport
NPV             Net Present Value
OED             Operations Evaluation Department (Now IEG)

PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PAR            Performance Audit Report
PCR            Project Completion Report
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
PSR            Project Supervision Report
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
RFFSA          Brazilian Federal Railways (Rede Ferroviaria Federal SAj
RMR            Recife Metropolitan Region
RTCC           Regional Transportation Coordination Commission of Belo Horizonte
SEAIN          State Secretariat for Foreign Affairs
SECTMA         Environment and Technology Secretariat of Pernambuco (Secretaria de Ciencia e
              Tecnologia e Meio Ambiente do Estado de Pernambuco)
SEI            Integrated Structural System (Sistema Estrutural Integrado)
SITURB         Integrated Urban Transport System (Sistema Integrado de
               Transporte)
               Public Transport System for RMR Passengers (Sistema de Transporte Publico de
              Passageiros daRMR)
STU-BH        Belo Horizonte Subdivision of CBTU
STU-REC       Recife Subdivision of CBTU
TMBH          Trem Metropolitan0 de Belo Horizonte S.A.


Fiscal Year

Government: January 1-December 31




Director, Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank                 :   Mr. Ajay C ~ b b e r
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Division          :   Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                       :   Mr. Peter Freeman
"Note:Since Vinod Thomas Director-General, IEG -was World Bank Country Director for Brazil during the period
                           -
covered by the PPAR, he recused himself from all review and supervisory functions related to it.


1   IEG Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.                 I
 About this Report
        The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programsand activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures throughthe
 dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses about 25 percent of the
 Bank's lending operations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative,
 large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or countryevaluations; those for which Executive
 Directorsor Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likelyto generate important lessons.
 The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
        A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEG staff examines project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEG studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' commentsare attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the IEG Rating System
        The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.htm1).
        Relevance o f Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 and Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
        Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
        InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency,enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Salisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
        Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
 achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsalisfactory.


Contents


Principal Ratings       ................................................................................................................v

Key Staff Responsible           ......................................................................................................vi

Preface ..............................................................................................................................vii..

Summary    ...........................................................................................................................ix

1. Background         ..................................................................................................................1

2. Recife Urban Transport Project: Objectives and Components                                             ..............................2

3. Achievement of Project Objectives: Recife                            ................................................................3

4. Ratings: Recife         .............................................................................................................6

5. Belo Horizonte Urban Transport Project: Objectives and Components                                                    .............10

6. Achievement of Project Objectives: Belo Horizonte                                  ...............................................11

7. Ratings: Belo Horizonte                ............................................................................................13

8. Lessons Learned           .........................................................................................................17

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet               ..............................................................................................17

Annex B. List of Persons Consulted and Organizations Visited                                        .................................25




Ths report was prepared by Peter Freeman and Gabriel Siri, who assessed the project in June 2005.
Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.


 Principal Ratings

 RECIFE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATIONPROJECT (L3915-BR)
             ----
                                                                                     w * ~ - p - , , m


              -                                        ICR Review*   -   ES Rating                         PPAR
                                                                                           "

 Outcome                                                Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Moderately satisfactory
 Sustainability                                         Likely           Likely                Likely
 Institutional Dev. Impact                              Substantial      Substantial           Substantial
 Bank Performance                                       Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance                                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
w                 -,-,,A        w--,,M,,emw#w,"-p--p                                      a , ~ " ~ , M w , M * ~ , , - , m > - m M ~




 Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Project (L3916-BR)

                                                       ICR Review*      ES Rating**                        PPAR

 Outcome                                                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Moderately satisfactory
 Sustainability                                          Likely           Likely             Likely
 Institutional Dev. Impact                               Substantial      Substantial        Substan,tial
 Bank Performance                                        Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance                                    Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory

 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
 Bank.

 ** The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to
 independently verify the findings of the ICR.

 Key Staff Responsible

 RECIFE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT (L3915-BR)

W#,-,-,w#*,,                                         M-,m                                           ----",------
                                                     Task Manager/Leader                Division Chief/          Country Director
                                                                                       Sector Manager

 Appraisal                                              Jorge Rebelo                       Asif Faiz             Gobind Nankani

 Completion                                             Jorge Rebelo                 Jose Luis lrigoyen          Vinod Thomas
                            -----*---"---#--                                                                     --M--,*-w




 BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (L3916-BR)

                       ~ ~ m - a a e # , " a - w , - # " ~ - ~                                            M

                                                     Task Manager/Leader                Division Chief/          Country Director
                                                                                       Sector Manager

 Appraisal                                              Jorge Rebelo                       Asif Faiz             Gobind Nankani

 Completion                                             Jorge Rebelo                 Jose Luis lrigoyen          Vinod Thomas
M   m   w    P *-*mm"                          ,r mw,               v m P-.?-sq   -maF~-r-m

Preface

This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR)prepared by the Bank's Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) covers two urban transport projects in Brazil:

         Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (L3915-BR). The loan was
         for US$l02.0 million. Actual loan disbursementwas US$100.5 million. At project
         closing the total project cost was estimated at US$264.8 million as against US$203.8
         million at appraisal. The difference (30 percent) was due to higher resettlement costs,
         delays in project completionbecause of exchangerate fluctuations increasingthe
         amount or counterpart funding needed, as well as works and activitiesnot envisaged at
         appraisal, but requested by local authorities.
         Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Project (L3916-BR). The loan was for
         US$99.0 million. Actual loan disbursementwas US$92.1 million. At project closingthe
         total project cost was estimated at US$207.1 million as againstUS$197.3 million at
         appraisal. The difference was due to higher than expectedresettlement costs and delays
         in project completion due to difficultieswith counterpart funding.

        Both projects were approved on June 29, 1995and closed on June 30,2004, two and a
half years behind schedule, due to a combinationof factors including disbursementdelays and to
allow time for implementation of the decentralizationplans of the commuterrail systemsfrom
federal to local government. The projects were selected for assessmentbecause Brazil's
experienceswith decentralizationissues could be instructive and of value to other developing
countriesplanning urban transport reforms.


        In June 2005, an IEG mission traveled to Brazil and discussed the projects with senior
government officials in the federal ministries of transportation,planning, and cities in Brasilia, as
well as with authorities and technical staff of state and municipal governments.The Mission
received substantive and logistical support from senior officials of the Brazilian Urban Railway
Company (CBTU) regional offices in Recife and Belo Horizonte. Officials of the metropolitan
transport companies,representatives of regional coordination authorities, and project
beneficiaries were also interviewed, as well as other groups familiarwith the projects (such as
academic,professional organizations,and advocacy groups). At the request of the mission, the
CBTU officials organized field trips to inspect the physical infrastructure and systems developed
with Bank support.

        Bank staff members at the Bank's resident mission in Brasilia were also consulted.The
kind cooperation of all the govenlrnent and nongovernmentalofficials consulted is gratefully
acknowledged, as well as the support of Bank staff,both at headquarters and in Brasilia. IEG
also reviewed the statistical and other information availablein the Bank StaffAppraisal Reports
(SARs), Implementation CompletionReports (ICRs), CountryAssistance Strategies(CAS),
CountryAssistance Evaluations (CAEs), project correspondencefiles, and Bank documents on
similar transport projects. Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent
to pertinent government officials and agencies for review and comments but no comments
received.


Summary

        This is a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for two urban transport
projects in Brazil: The Recife MetropolitanTransportDecentralizationProject (L3915-BR),
and the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan TransportProject (L3916-BR).The development
objectivesof the projects were almost identical:

i.      The development of an integrated urban transport system under a regional transportation
        coordinatingbody, establishedto coordinate and recommend common policies on
       pricing, regulation, financing,project evaluation and selection;

..
11.     The deceiitralization of the respective subdivisionsof the BrazilianUrban Rail Company
        from the federal to the state level;

...
111.    The reduction of negative environmental (mainly air quality and noise) impacts on the
        respective regions due to motor vehicles, and the promotion of non-motorized transport
       modes; and,

iv.     The developn~entof special strategiesand actionsto improve the accessibilityof the low
        incomepopulation to employment centers, health and education facilities.

        Brazilian Government policy is to decentralizefrom federal to local level the ownership
and management of its commuter rail systems, achieve greater integration and institutional
coordination in the provision of urban transport servicesand at the same time relieve traffic
congestion and improve air pollution and public safety. The two projects in this PPAR were
designed wit11 these factors in mind, but the executionproved much more difficultthan expected
due to the impact of Brazil's financial crisis which had both economic and political
repercussions.Lack of fiscal space led the Treasury to re-prioritizeprojects, relegating
investment in infrastructureto a lower priority. This subsequently caused considerable delays in
the exec~~tionof the urban transport projects, because local authorities did not want to accept the
transfer of rail systemswithout a subsidyto cover the operatingdeficits. In 2004-05 the
government introduced a specialprogram to give high priority to a limited set of projects by
assigningthem "pilot project" status. The Belo Horizonteproject was included in the initial list,
but the Recife project, which required a much larger subsidyamount, was not. However,
subsequent to this R$78 million was allocated to Recife by means of a specialmeasure not
subject to fiscal restrictions.

        IEG has rated the outcome of both the Recife Metropolitan TransportDecentralization
Project and the Belo HorizonteMetropolitan Transport Project as moderately satisfactory.The
objectivesof the two projects are relevant to the government's priorities and in line with the
Bank's country assistancestrategyfor Brazil. The efficacyof both projects is rated modest inter
alia because of the unfinished works and the lack of resolution on the issue of subsidies and
payments necessaryto compensatefor delays.Until this is resolved transfer of assets and thus
full decentralizationcannot take place. Integration of the urban transport system is also not yet
fully complete Efficiencyis rated substantial in both cases.Although the long delays did reduce
the economic rates of return, they were still well over the 10percent threshold level. Because of

the recent availability of new financing for both projects and the renewed execution effort that
has been under way, taken overall, the outcome though not fully satisfactory is an achievement
in the difficult country circumstances.

        Improvement in Recife's commuter metro system has contributed to a modest increase in
passenger trips, but the increase in such trips has been less than half of the volume expected
because the physical works are not finished. Similarly, in the case of Belo Horizonte, the growth
of metro ridership has been well below the original target set at the time of project appraisal.
This significance performance gap experienced in both projects can mostly be explainedby the
fact that some of the integration terminals that link the metro and the bus systems are still
incomplete. Delays in the rehabilitation of tlie rolling stock of the metro systems have also
contributed to the shortfall in passenger transit.

        The impact of both projects on the institutional development of the urban transport sector
in the respective regions is rated substantial. Buslmetro integration and the new decentralization
model are pioneering achievements for Brazil. Progress has also been made in expanding state-
municipal relations, improving transportation planning, and designing regulatory agencies.

        Sustainability of both projects is rated likely. The recent breakthrough in the availability
of financing in particular substantially increases the likelihood that the projects will be finished
during the next few months and improves the prospects of maintaining over time the flow of net
benefits generated by the project and advancing the transfer of the metro to the local level.

        Bank performance with respect to both projects is rated satisfactory. The Bank
recognized that the projects were risky given the extent of planned institutional change, but
underestimated the complexity of the decentralization process, and the degree of politicization
between the various authorities following the onset of the financial crisis. It could not reasonably
have foreseen, however, the impact of the lack of fiscal space on prioritization in the
infrastructure sector. The preparation and supervision of the projects was conducted in a
thorough manner, with the teams trying to keep the urban transport decentralization process
moving. The Bank was particularly proactive at the time the new government was elected at the
end of 2002 and a new ministry took over responsibility at national level for the project. At one
point the Bank sent strong warning signals and had to suspend loan disbursements in the face of
non-compliance with decentralization clauses. But once there was agreement to try to get the
project back on track the Bank facilitated between the parties and helped them to negotiate a new
decentralization strategy and to sign agreements committing to a revised decentralization
process. The persistence of the Bank has kept the option open for the completion of the
decentralization agenda, even after the projects formally closed.


        Borrower performance for both the Recife and Belo Horizonte projects is rated
unsatisfactory. Brazil's Federal Government did not exhibit a steadfast comnlitment to the
decentralization program, and CBTU, the implementing agency, did not demonstrate the
commitment and negotiating skills necessary for the timely implementation of the projects. The
change mid-project in administration at the ministerial level resulted in a discontinuity of policy
with respect to the financing of the operations and disrupted the institutional reform schedule.
Moreover, the state governments did not provide effective support for ensuring timely execution

of the projects. After loan closure the Federal Government recognized the negative impacts that
its fiscal space policies were having in the social iiifrastmcture sector and began to take steps to
couinteractthe detrimental effects through for example the encouragement of private sector
involvement and the allocation of separate funds to complete the projects that had been
jeopardized. However, these actions were too late to prevent severe delays in their completion.

        It is clear that the lack of timely funding was the priincipal cause of the delays and this
was due to the financial crisis. The process of deceintralizationwas prolonged because no-one
knew for sure for how long this adverse situation would last. There are four key lessons however
that the Bank has learned from its involvement in the Recife and the Belo Horizonte
metropolitain transport projects:

>   It is essential to create an enabling environment for .thefinancial sustainability of urban
    transport operations; one that achieves a balance between being market-oriented but, at the
    same time, takes into account the urban environment and affordability issues. It is also
    innportant to define a fare policy that squarely faces the issues of cost recovery including,
    transparent passenger subsidies for the poor and funding mechanisms to cover operating
    deficits.

>   The decentralization of urban rail systems from the federal to the state or a lower level of
    government is desirable because it brings the operator closer to the users, thus allowing for
    the service to be more responsive to user needs and wishes. Decentralization is also likely to
    facilitate integration with other transport modes since there will be fewer levels of
    government that have to be in agreementwith tariff and subsidy policies.

>   Conflicts among government institutions, political parties, as well as worker and private
    sector lobbies can be a major source of disruption in the execution of large urban transport
    projects. The Bank should be prepared to assist in the mobilization of negotiating skills for
    conflict resolution should they be needed.

>   The time it takes to rehabilitate rolling stock should not be underestimated. Both projects
    show that the private fimns responsible for delivery of the rehabilitated trains have
    experienced serious technical, administrative and financial problems that had to be resolved.




                                                                        Ajay Chhibber
                                                                        Acting Director-General
                                                                        Evaluation


1. Background

1.1      TheReclfe Metropolitan TransportDecentralization and Belo Horizonte Metropolitan
Transport projects originated in a decisionmade by the Government of Brazil to transfer the
ownership and operationalresponsibilitiesfor the subdivisions of the Brazilian Urban Railway
Company (CBTU) from the federal to the state and municipal levels of government. The Bank
had already partly financed the projects for S5o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and more recentlyhas
become involved in Salvador and Fortaleza. Simultaneously, comprehensive integrationof the
urban transport systems, involvingharmonization of routes and fares, was to be undertaken,
requiring close coordinationof the respective authorities.

1.2      Decentralizationof the CBTU rail systems was viewed as a precursor to concessions to
the private sector (as has been achieved in Rio de Janeiro). The interest in establishing private-
sector concessionswas to improve system efficiency, generatenew investment, and reduce the
fiscalburden that had been inherent in their operations.

1.3      With 14municipalitiesin the Recife MetropolitanRegion and 18municipalitiesin Belo
Horizoiite MetropolitanRegion, multiniodal,inter-municipal, and state-municipalcoordination is
a complex undertaking. However, the concentrationof severaltransport regulatory functions
under the MetropolitanUrban Transport Company (EMTU) in Recife and under the Transport
and Transit Company(BHTRANS) in Belo Horizontewas intended to enablebetter coordination
within these large metropolises.

1.4      Unfortunately,Brazil's economy suffered a serious downturn in 2001-02 and this was
accompanied by a substantialdeteriorationin the exchange rate. Lack of fiscal space led the
Treasuryto re-prioritizeprojects, relegating investmentin infrastructure to a lowerpriority
which subsequentlycaused considerable delays in the executionof both urban transport projects,
because local authoritiesdid not want to accept .thetransfer of rail systemswithout a subsidyto
cover the operating deficits. In 2004-05 the government introduced a special program to give
high priority to a limited set of projectsby assigningthem "pilot project" status. The Belo
Horizonteproject was included in the initial list, but the Recife project, which required a much
larger subsidy amount, was not. However, subsequent to this, R$78 millioiiwas allocated for
Recife by means of a special measure, not subject to fiscal restrictions.

1.5      Poverty and uneven wealth distribution are among Brazil's most pressing problems.
Better urban transport is part of the government's strategyto alleviate these income differences.
The metrohus systemsof Recife and Belo Horizoiite extend into the impoverished
neighborhoods on the periphery of the metropolitan regions and provide a service for low-
incomeworkers to get to work and for the poor, whether eniployed or not, to reach health
centers, educational facilities and make other essential trips. Passengers such as students,the
disabled, and some commuters receive a vale transporte, a federallymandated subsidypaid by
employers.Nevertheless, a segment of the poor population cannot even afford a bus-metro fare.
It is estimated, for example, that over one-thirdof the population walks to work. But providing
access and affordabletransportationto the urban poor runs counter to cost-recovery
considerations.The financial sustainabilityof the urban transport systems requires that revenues
cover operating costs. Passenger trips on the systemthus have to increase and operating costs to

decrease to a level where passenger transport subsidies are optimized. Achieving this balance is
not easy.

1.6        Brazilian Government policy is to decentralize the ownership and management of the
commuter rail systems to local level, to achieve greater integration and institutional coordination
in the provision of urban transport services and at the same time relieve traffic congestion and
improve air pollution and public safety. The two projects covered by this PPAR were designed
with these factors in mind, but their execution proved more difficult than expected due to
Brazil's financial crisis which had both economic and political repercussions.



2. Recife Urban Transport Project: Objectives and Components

2.1        The objectives and compoilents of the project are shown in Box 1


Box 1: Project Objectives and Components
Objectives (As stated in the SAR)
(a) The development of an integrated urban transport system for the Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) under the existing
regional transportation coordination commission established to coordinate and recommend common policies on pricing,
regulation, financing, project evaluation and selection;
(b) The decentralization (transfer of ownership and operational responsibilities) of the Recife Subdivision of the Brazilian Urban
Railways Company STU-REC from the federal to the state level;
(c) The reduction of the negative environmental (mainly air quality and noise) impacts on the RMR due to road-based vehicles
and the promotion of non-motorized transport modes; and
(d) The development of special strategies and actions to improve the accessibility of the poor to employment centers, health
centers and education facilities.

Components
(i) Infrastructure and Equipment component (planned total project costs US$ 191.1 million; actual US$249.8 million) to help
build:
                     Rail extension from Camaragibe (TIP) to Timbi, conversion of the south line from diesel to electric traction,
                     separation of freight and passenger lines and additional stations required to enhance modal integration;
                     The transfer terminals and physical accesses required for the actual integration between bus, rail, pedestrians,
                     automobiles and bicycles.

(ii) Environmental and Trafic Safety component (planned US$ 0.35 million; actual Nil) to support:
                     The design of an inspection and maintenance program for vehicle emissions and noise;
                     The development of a traffic management control and safety program particularly in the area of influence of
                     the rail system.

(iii)Institutional and Policy Development component (planned US$ 12.3 million; actual US$ 15.0million). This component
included support for the decentralization and modal integration process, improvements in system management and an action plan
for the government to decide whether to concession out the system to the private sector. It included:
                     Strengtheningthe Metropolitan Urban Transport Company (EMTU) for the Recife Metropolitan Region
                     through a set of action plans related to the decentralization process and modal integration;
                     Preparing an integrated Transport Policy, Land Use, and Air Quality Management strategy for the Recife
                     Metropolitan Region.
                     Provision of an action plan to improve the financial management of STU-REC;
                     Developing an enabling environment and 'financial instruments for more substantial private-sector
                     participation in the investment and operation of the operating agencies;
                     Strengthening air-quality planning and monitoring of vehicles-based emissions.

2.2      With regard to the components, the non-timely implementation was due to delays caused
by the lack of fiscal space and by a chronic shortage of counterpart hnds. The environmental
and traffic safety components were taken over by the Ministry of Environment and the Recife
Municipal Bus and Traffic Company respectively. No Bank funds were subsequentlyused in this
component.Most, but not all, of the studieswere carried out, while the provision of supportto
the management of the decentralized system was not possible since full decentralization has not
yet taken place.

3. Achievement of Project Objectives: Recife

Development of an Integrated Urban Transport System

3.1      This objectivehas been modestly achieved. The project has certainly contributed to the
creation of an enabling environment through assistancewith actionplans, studies and advice on
the developmentof an integrated urban transport system. But, unfortunately, the fiscal
restrictionshave caused serious implementatioii delays which have impacted the full
achievement of physical integration and the transfer of assets from federal to local level.
Although progress has been made towards full modal integrationas yet this only covers about
two thirds of metrobus integrationand cannot be completed until the remaining physical works
have been finished.Fare integrationis more advanced, but discussionsare still being held in
respect of a better solution for compensation for metro services.

3.2      Recife's existingtransport coordinating body is the Recife Metropolitan Transport
Company(EMTU). This is a state agencythat coordinatesall bus servicesin the Recife
MetropolitanRegion. It also tries to coordinate with the metro services.A Recife Metropolitan
Transport Consortium (CTRM) is to be established which will have the authorityto coordinate
urban transport and set investment priorities in the region; in April 2005 Federal Law 11,107on
public consortia created a more favorablelegal basis for the creation of the CTRM and a letter of
intent between the State of Pernambuco and the Municipalityof Recife was signed on March 30,
2006'.

3.3      Recife was a pioneer in Latin America of a trunk and feeder systemwith modal and fare
integrationexpandedthrough the development of the Integrated StructuralSystem (Sistema
Estrutuval Integrado       - SEI). The SEI is designed to ensure service connectivityand tariff
integrationbetween the modes. Integrated fares exist for all modes in the metropolitan region,
includingmetro; SEI does not yet, however, cover the entire metropolitan region. Since loan
closure two additionalmetro terminals and one bus terminal have been finalized, allowingfor the
integrationof 12new bus lines and bringing metro/ bus integrationto about 65 percent complete.
Constructionis currentlyunderway to expand the Camaragibe (Timbi)terminal and to integrate
10 fixther bus lines,but finalizationwill have to wait until the completionof the works on the
South Line and the erection of two additional bus terminals by the State of Pernambuco. Urban
transportmodal integrationhas thus not yet reached the potential originallyenvisaged.


'This took place with the assistance of IFC Advisory Services whch followed up on the work prepared under the
loan at the request of the state and the municipality. The consortium is still expected to become operational with the
transfer of the EMTU staff during 2006.

3.4      The MetropolitanCouncil for Urban Transport sets fare levels, while the Metropolitan
Urban Transport Company (EMTU) manages and controls farerevenues. Bus operatorsare part
of a tariff clearinghouse(Cdmara de Compensaqa"~)              managed by EMTU; it includes all bus
operatorsin Recife's metropolitanregion. However, the metro is not part of this clearinghouse.
Compensation of the metro is based on the principle "who collects the fares,keeps them," given
the assumption that most trips have two legs, thus in one directionthe revenue is collected by the
bus operators and in the other by the metro. This is not an optimal solution,and discussionson
alternativeways of compensation are still ongoing, because the inclusionof the metro operator in
CTRM now appears unlikely due to the completelydifferent cost structures between bus and
metro operations,as well as the lack of clarityregarding future subsidy levels for the metro
mode.

Urban Transport Decentralization

3.5       The objective,to transfer ownership and operational responsibilitiesof Recife's urban
railways fi-omfederal to state level,was modestly achieved.By loan closure the Federal
Governmenthad technicallydecentralized all operational and management responsibilities to the
state and local authoritieswith both the State and Federal Governmentshaving a representative
on the board of the Recife Subdivisionof the BrazilianUrban Railway Company (STU-REC).
However, negotiationson full decentralizationare still ongoingbetween the Ministry of Cities
and the state,which is demanding compensation for the delays in the civil works completion due
to the Federal Government imposing fiscal space restrictions.These negotiations now have a
much better chance of succeedingbecause the ProvisionalMeasure, 290 of April 12,2006
(medidaprovisoria) has allocated R$78 million (not subject to fiscalrestrictions) for the
continuationof works in 2006. The works have alreadybeen prioritized and will mainly focus
on the signalingfor the sectionRodovihial Camaragibi of the Central Line and a number of
interventionsat stationson this line. With this prioritization scheduleit is expected that by the
end of the year the South Line will be in experimental operation up to Cajueiro Seco (the original
project target). Once the physical works are complete this will create a realisticbackground for
the full decentralizationnegotiations to be successful.

3.6      The Bank-fimdedproject assisted in the negotiation2of a new decentralized model with
the Federal Government and in the preparation of the legal documentsfor the eventual complete
transfer of the system.With the advent of a newly elected Federal Governnieiit at the end of
2002, the administrationof Recife's Urban Transport Project was transferred fi-omthe Ministry
of Transportation to the newly created Ministry of Cities, and the discontinuitythis caused
resulted in fh-ther delays to the iniplementationschedule. The new management adopted a more
gradual decentralizationmodel taking into account the constraints on the Federal Government's
limited budgetary allocationsover the previous three years. The process was lengthened and


 At one point, the Federal Governmenttentatively agreed to pay metro staff salaries for a period of six months once
the systemhad been turned over to local authorities,but Brazil's newly elected government in January 2003 did not
wish to formalizethis arrangement, in part because it was opposedby the politically influentialrailway union, which
wanted its members to retain their federal employee status.

divided into several stages, commencing with the establishment of a mixed federal-state
company in charge of managingthe system and supervising the ongoing works. The new model
was developedby CBTU and is now under discussionat senior governmelit levels.

Reduction of Negative EnvironmentalImpacts and Promotion of Non-motorizedTransport
Modes

3.7     Achievement of this objectivewas modest. The main reduction of the adverse
environmentalimpacts of this project, mainly air pollution and noise impacts, was expected to
come from the improvementsin the metro system which of course is not yet complete. On the
Rodoviaria-Camaragibesection,however, the train has absorbed many of the passengers
transported by bus and private car previously using CaxangaAvenue and congestion has also
decreased to unknown degrees in some other areas influencedby the metro system. The
designing of measures to inspect vehicle emissions and noise pollution was not implemented
with loan funds as envisaged, because the inspection/maintenance functionwas taken over at
federal level by the Ministry of Environment. This Ministry is still studyingits own plan to
check vehicles for compliance with environmentalstandards at point of licensing,and has not yet
moved to implenientation.

3.8     Similarlythe comprehensive traffic management and safetymeasures to reduce traffic
congestion and decrease accidents, with particular emphasis on the zone of influenceof the rail
system,was taken over and funded by the Recife Municipal Bus and Traffic Company (CTTU).
However, CTTU has successfullyintroduced a bicycle path in downtown Recife as well as
several successful safety and traffic restraint measures including traffic light systeni
enhancements and improved parking policies.

Improved Access for the Poor

3.9     This objectivewas substantially achieved.Metro is cheaper than the bus and even
though the system is not yet finished there has been a 25 percent increasein average daily
ridership since project start-up.Access by the poor has improved through the construction and
rehabilitation of integratedterminals. The construction of bridges, viaducts, and pedestrian
over/underpasseshas also facilitatedaccess for people walking to stations.Moreover, the number
of fatal accidents involvingpedestrians has fallen.Access to social,health, and community
serviceshas been improved by bringing these activitiesdirectly to the metro stations.For
example: Health Week, when free health servicesare offered, and Citizens' Week, when identity
cards, work permits, birth certificates,and other documents are issued. The commuter rail system
carries 12percent of all passenger trips in the metropolitan region and although some of the
really poor especiallyin the north-west of Recife live too far from the metro to benefit from it,
progress has been made within the scope of the project. The last annual user surveycarried out
by the metro operator at the end of 2005, showed that servicequality has improved,especiallyin
terms of security,(an external company now provides metro securityservices).Some 16percent
of trains now have air conditioning(with a further 12percent to be added by year end) and since
May 2005 two additionaltrains nm in peak ho~~rsto reduce overcrowding.

4. Ratings: Recife

Relevance

4.1      The objectives of the project are substantially relevant. They are consistent with Brazil's
current development priorities of growth and monetary stability and with the Bank's country and
sector assistance strategies. The project aims to increase the efficiency of urban transportation by
improving the infrastructure and changing the regulatory framework of transport services to
support the goals of decentralization and inter-modal integration, and by encouraging the
expansion of private sector participation. This is in line with the strategic thinking in the Bark's
urban strategy paper "Cities on the Move". The targeting of the benefits to the poor and the
objective of improving air quality in the city are also important and in line with both .theCAS
and government policy. However, the fact that there have been serious delays shows that during
the financial crisis the government had higher priorities.

Efficacy

4.2      The efficacy of the project is rated modest. The urban transport system is not yet fully
integrated. Although the responsibility for operational and management decisions of the metro
system has been transferred, full decentralization (transfer of assets) will not be complete until
the financial issues resulting from the delays due to the financial crisis are resolved. This could
still take appreciable time, and will probably only gain momentum once the physical works are
complete. The IEG mission confirmed that the installation of the automatic signaling system of
the last 4.5 km. of the line is now also in place and is being commissioned. Three urban bus
terminals that serve as conllectingiiodes on the Central Line have been completed, but only two
of the seven terminals on the South Line. The train station at the end of the Central Line (Timbi-
Comaragibe) is finished, and the task of constructing the structures of 10new train stations and
the modernization of two existing stations in the South Line is 80 percent complete. The
construction of the double electrified track at the begiimiiig of the South Line from Recife to
Cajueiro Seco (13.4 km) is also finished.

4.3      However, the project as a whole cannot realize its full potential until all the physical
works have all been accomplished. Although the demand for cornnlutermetro trips has risen,
they have increased at a much lower rate than expected. Traffic was projected to increase to 118
million passengers per year by 2005 (PAD, 1995),but the present utilization is less than 60
million. The performance gap is largely explained by the fact that the rail networks and some of
the integration terminals are not yet finished, nor are the all the linkages between the metro and
the bus systems. Furthermore, postponements in the rehabilitation of the rolling stock have also
affected ridership. While trains were originallyprojected to be ready by December 2002, the
expected date is now December 2007. Only 16percent of existing trains are air conditioned.

4.4      A fundamental cause of the major delays in the execution of the project was the slowing
down of the decentralization process by the government in the light of the national financial
crisis. There was also a new government elected, leading to a change of the responsible ministry
for the project, which exercised its prerogative to re-examine the project rationale. Moreover,
there were significant disbursement delays due to late effectiveness and underperformance of

winning contractors in the procurement of equipment.Project cost overruns, financed by
counterpart fi~nding,were largely due to added public works not envisaged at appraisal,
additional costs for resettlement, higher land market values than anticipated and new activities
with high social benefits subsequentlyrequestedby local authorities.Moreover, the delays in the
completion of the project inflated the costs of the contracts and increased management
expenditures. All these delays have increased the subsidyrequirements which the State
Governmentis not prepared to fund and at this time the Federal Government is still considering
whether to fbnd.


Efficiency

4.5     Project efficiencyis considered substantial.Although the economic rate of return (ERR)
dropped from 28 percent (estimated at project appraisal)to 22 percent at project closing (June
2004), a reworking of the analysis (May 2006) still gives a satisfactory ERR of 17.5percent,
provided that the anticipatedpassenger usage materializes as planned once the entireproject is
finished.

4.6     With regard to the unfinished components,only part of the South Line is in commercial
operation. A number of stationbuildings are also finished but not in use which means that some
investments have had to be left idle, constituting some losses in terms of the opportunitycost of
the money that has been invested to build them. However, overall the project can still achieve a
good return.


Outcome

4.7     IEG rates the outcome of the project as moderately satisfactory.The rating is based on
an overall assessment of the relevance, efficacy, and efficiency as indicated and an assessment of
the four objectives, three of which were modestly achieved and one substantially achieved. The
timetable to achieve the objectives was of course severely disrupted by the financial crisis in
Brazil. Project closure was extendedby 2.5 years over the originallyplanned completiondate
and since closure a further two years has elapsed up to the finalization of this report. SinceR$78
million has been allocated by the Federal Government the completion of the project is looking
much more likely. However, severalmatters are still outstanding,including the deliveryof the
rehabilitated trains, the sorting out of compensationissues so that full decentralizationcan be
achieved and the attainment of the number of passenger trips estimated at appraisal. For these
reasons IEG does not believe a fblly satisfactoryrating is appropriate.


InstitutionalDevelopment

4.8     The impact of the project on the institutional developmentof Recife's urban transport
sector is rated substantial.Buslmetro integration and the (virtually completed) establishment of
CTRM are pioneering achievementsin Latin America. Interventionby the Bank did assist in the
negotiation of a new decentralizationmodel after the newly elected Federal Government
designating a new ministry to be responsible for the project. Action plans were drawn up and
culminated in signed agreementsbetween the parties. The decentralization efforts for the metro
system have culminated in a transfer of operational and management responsibilities to the local

level. The loan also financed a study to evaluate private sector participation in the operations and
management of the system, so that the state could weigh its decisions once the system is formally
decentralized. The conclusions of this study led the state and municipality to hire IFC Advisory
Services to assist in setting up a formal metropolitan authority following a new Consortium Law;
aiid also to prepare the competitive bidding for bus routes under EMTUjurisdiction. The delays
due to the lack of fiscal space, however, have meant that the financial aspects of decentralization
have not been finalized while support to the management of the decentralized system could not
take place for the same reason.

Sustainability

4.9     The sustainability of the Recife project is rated likely. After project closure the situation
did not look good aiid the uncertainty about Federal Government funding led to the cancellation
of the contracts and demobilization of some firms involved in the execution of the project. This
situation, however, was reversed following the breakthrough leading to the allocation of R$27
million in 2005 and a further R$78 million in 2006. That sufficient funds for maintenance will be
available appears probable. Possible future constraints on available finances will obviously be
affected by the usage of the system and the fare levels imposed. At this stage, andjudging by
similar experiences in other cities in Brazil that have followed this route, sustainability looks on
balance to be secure.

Bank Performance

4.10    The Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory, given the exceptional circumstances that
befell the project and the proactive actions of the project team to try to get the project back on
track. Quality at entry was satisfactory based on the experiences with previous decentralization
projects in Brazil and was vetted by a panel of ~~rbaiitransport experts. The Balk recognized that
the project was risky given the extent of plamied institutional change,but probably
underestimated the complexity of the decentralization process in Recife, as well as the degree of
politicization between the various authorities that followed the onset of the financial crisis. It
would have been ~~nreasonable,however, to have expected the project team to have anticipated
the finaiicial crisis leading to the fiscal space restraints that eventuated.

4.11    The supervision of the project was conducted in a thorough and professional manner with
the team interacting with all stakeholders frequently, especially when key decision points were
reached. IEG's mission confirmed that the Bank's role in trying to keep the process moving is
recognized and appreciated in Brazil, particularly with regard to policy advice. The Bank was
proactive at the time the new government was elected and a new ministry took over
responsibility at national level for the project. At one point Bank sent strong warning signals and
even suspended the execution of the project for three months in the face of non-compliance with
decentralization clauses. Once there was agreement to try to get the project back on track the
Bank acted as an "honest broker" between the parties and helped them to negotiate a new
decentralization strategy and to sign agreements committing to a revised decentralization
process. The persistence of the project team has kept the option open for the completion of the
decentralizatioil agenda, even though the project has closed. It is unlikely that it could have done
more.

Borrower Performance

4.12    Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Clearly, the decentralizationprocess and
the physical and modal integration of the transport systemswas a politically and technically
complex undertaking. Different pressure groups bent     011gaining advantage or maintaining the
status quo also made it difficult to carry out the reforms timeously. The local project
management team worked assiduouslyto advance the project, but it did not have the authorityto
ensure the results.

4.13    Brazil's Federal Government,the CBTU presidency and the State of Pemambuco did not
evidence ownership and a steadfast commitment to the decentralizationprogram in the prevailing
climate of severe financial restraint. CBTU took a long time to work out the details of the new
decentralization model and even longer to commence implementation.It also did not
demonstratethe negotiating skills necessary for the timely implementation of the project. The
change in leadership at the ministerial level midway through project executionresulted in a
discontinuity of policy and disrupted the timetable for institutional reform. Most importantly,
project implementationwas adversely affectedby the postponement of hnds to cover operating
deficits, previously assured by the Federal Governmelit.

4.14    After loan closure the Federal Government recognized the negative impacts that its fiscal
spacepolicies were having in the social infrastructure sector and began to take steps to
counteract the detrimental effects such as the encouragemeiit of private sector involvementin
some urban transport projects and the allocationof separate f~lndsto completeprojects that had
been jeopardized. However, these actionswere too late to prevent severe disruption of the Recife
project.

5. Belo Horizonte Urban Transport Project: Objectives and
     Components

5.1       The objectives and components of the project are shown in Box 5.

Box 2: Project Objectivesand Components

Objectives (As stated in the SAR)

(a) The developmentof an integrated urban transport system for the Belo HorizonteMetropolitan Region under a regional
transportation coordination commission establishedto coordinateand reconmend common policies on pricing, regulation,
financing,project evaluation and selection.
(b) The decentralizationof the Brazilian Urban Railways Company(STU-BH) fromthe federalto the state and municipal levels.
(c) The reduction of negative environmentalimpacts through reductions in the level of traffic congestion and the promotion of
non-motorized transport modes.
(d) The developmentof special strategies and actions to improve the accessibilityof the low-income populationto employment
centers, health and education facilities.

Components

(a) Infrastructureand Equipment componeilt (planned total project costs US$ 182.7million; actual US$ 191.6million) to
help build :
          (i) The rail extension of STU-BH and the additionalstationsrequired to enhancemodal integration;
          (ii) The transfer terminals and physical accessesrequired for the actual integrationbetween buses, rail, pedestrians,
          automobiles and bicycles;
          (iii) A centralized road traffic signal control system to improve traffic management and control at about 250 road
          intersections in Belo Horizonte;

(b) Environmentaland Traff~cSafetycomponent(planned US$0.36 million; actual US$0.50 million) to support :
          (i) The design of an inspection and maintenance(IiM) program for vehicle en~issionsand noise; and
          (ii) A traffic management and safetyprogram;

c) Institutional and Policy Developmentcomponent(planned US$ 14.3million; actual US$ 15.0million) to help in :
          (i) Strengtheningthe RTCC for the BHMR;
          (ii) Preparing an integratedTransportPolicy, Land Use and Air QualityManagementstrategy for the BHMR to
          meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery,tariff, regulatory and subsidy
          policies;
          (iii) Implementinga cost-based financialmanagement system in the STU-BH;
          (iv) Developing and enabling environment and financial instrumentsfor more substantialparticipationof the private
          sector in the investmentand operationof the operating agencies;and




5.2       The civil works program although seriously delayed is now being completed. Although
the traffic management program was largely successful, the environmental program was taken
over by the Ministry of Environment and Bank funds were not used in this activity. Except for
item (v) appropriate support was given where possible to assist with strengthening and policy
development.

6. Achievement of Project Objectives: Belo Horizonte

Development of an Integrated Urban Transport System

6.1     This objectivewas substantially achieved. The process of integratingthe Belo Horizonte
metro system with private bus operations has become effectiveand is expected to consolidate.
The municipality, operating through the Belo Horizonte Transport and Transit Company
(BHTRANS), and followingthe plan to restructurethe municipal bus system(BHBUS),has
become a pioneer in Brazil in concessioning municipal bus routes through competitivebidding.

6.2     The project's main metro terminalshave been substantiallyintegratedwith the municipal
(and some inter-municipal bus services) in terms of timing and connectivityof services. Since
loan closure the number of integratedbus lines has increased from 155to 170.Currently 60
percent of the demand for metro servicesis integrated and fare integrationbetween the metro and
municipal bus servicesis now realized through the use of smart cards, while fare integration
involvinginter-municipalbuses is via an integratedpaper ticket. The municipalityof Belo
Horizontehas also financedinterventions to facilitateintegration in the stations of Carlos Prates,
Lagoinha and SantaEfigenia. Nevertheless, the works for some stations and their connections to
the bus system are still inconipleteand consequentlyfull rail-bus integrationhas been delayed.
The State of Minas Gerais has also been less effectivein integrating the rail systemwith the
buses that run between the differentmunicipalitiesof the MetropolitanRegion of Belo
Horizonte.This is because of a strongbus-owner lobby that is apprehensiveabout loss of
ridership to the metro, and is thus opposedto route rationalization.

6.3     A furtherpositive developmentduring project implementation has been the good
collaborationbetween BHTRANS and STU-BH. More recently, a dialoguehas also developed
between these organizationsand DER-MG. A series of meetings has taken place under the
auspices of the Regional Transportation Coordination Conlmission (RTCC)which have led to
better coordinationof transport policies within the Metropolitan Region. For examplepositive
dialogue has been establishedwithin the same forum with the Stateof Minas Gerais. This
development is supported by a new state law that gives the state a greaterrepresentation in the
decisionmaking body of the Metropolitan Region. Considering the strength of the bus lobby this
is a major step forward resulting from the groundworkprepared under the loan.

6.4     There is a program sanctioned under state law that enables the restructuring of the public
transport system of the Metropolitan Region and delegates the supervisionof all municipal and
inter-municipal bus servicesto the new company that will take over the metro rail system from
the Federal Government.Followingthe pattern successfullyutilized for the municipal system,
the lines of the inter-municipalbus system that are now operatingunder state supervision will be
concessioned out through competitivebidding. The restructuringprocess is aimed at
rationalizingthe system and avoiding competing lines along the same route.

6.5     Under the project, three studies in support of modal integrationwere successfullycarried
out: i) The originldestinationsurveyfor the Belo Horizonte MetropolitanRegion; ii) The
METROPLAN, an integratedurban transport, land use, and air quality management strategyfor

the Metropolitan Region; iii) A study on the fare structure of the public transport system in the
BHMR. All of these studies were important building blocks to achieving system integration.


Urban Transport Decentralization

6.6     This objective has been modestly achieved. The decentralization process has had a long
history of uilmet targets and postponements. A preparation of a detailed transfer program was
approved as early as November 1995but did not materialize. In 2000, under pressure from the
Bank to comply with the project decentralization clause, a date was set for transfer for December
of that year, which was also not met. A new agreement was then reached between the Federal
Government, the state, and the Municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem to implement the
decentralization by June 30, 2001 for three months. Failure to meet this target deadline
culminated in the suspension of disbursements by the Bank in October 2001. A Special Council
for the Transfer of the System (including all relevant stakeholders)continued to meet, and the
Bank extended the project's closing date one more year to give the government additional time
to iron out the details of the transfer, warning CBTU and state authorities that no more
extensions would be granted if the transfer did not take place by December 20,2002.
Nevertheless, in response to a request by Brazil's newly elected government, Bank did agree to
extend the loan ~ ~ n tDecember 2003 to give the new ministry that took over the management of
                        i l
the project, the new Ministry of Cities, time to review the process and allow a revised, more
gradual decentralization model to be implemented. Finally, the project closed on June 30,2004,
with assurances by the Federal Government that the necessary funding would be provided to
finish the project and proceed with the decentralization.

6.7     After loan closure the Federal Government decentralized all management and operational
decisions to the State and local authorities who then appointed a superintendent. The State of
Minas Gerais, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte and the Federal Government are all now
represented on the board of STU-BH. Negotiations       011the full decentralization (transfer of
assets) are ongoing. It is also the first urban transport project to be included in the Government's
"pilot project" funding arrangement - with the proviso that the system is to be transferred to local
authorities upon completion. This is an important break-through since the funding of the deficits
was the sticking point. It is expected that now that the fundingnecessary to complete the project
has been allocated, a final agreement on the transfer of the systemwill sooil be reached.

Reduction of Negative Environmental Impacts and the Promotion of Non-motorized Modes

6.8     This objective was substantially achieved. A key objective of the project was to reduce
traffic congestion, air pollution, and noise levels by reducing the use of automobiles and buses. A
cleaner and quieter transport system is sought through an increase in the use of the metro system,
the installation of modem traffic control and new traffic light systems, and the encouragement of
the use, where appropriate, of non-motorized transport.

6.9     More passengers using the commuter rail system have resulted in less traffic congestion
in the streets and, although, the share of urban commuter trips carried by the Belo Horizonte
metro is relatively small and the increase in ridership has been lower than expected, good
progress has been made within the scope defined for this objective. A centralized traffic

managenlent system has been successfullyinstalled to monitor vehicle circulation,regulate
traffic lights in response to traffic conditions, and post electronic messages to drivers.From the
controlroom managed by BHTRANS, it is now possible to observe the flow of traffic at key
intersectionsin the city and make automated adjustmentsto improve traffic flows. The real time
traffic light systemwhich facilitated a smoother flow of car trips tlxough "green waves" has
decreased the number of "stop and go" movements caused by the previous inefficient mechanical
system.Introductionof the traffic light control system has significantlyimproved traffic flows,
reduced vehicle accidents, and improved pedestrian safety. The physical installationshave now
been completed, and once the system is fully operational,further improvement in traffic
circulationand the speedingup of buses is expected to lower fuel consumptionby more than 10
percent and reduce vehicle emissions and noise. Moreover, resources are now available to install
the two air pollution monitoring stations,which at the project completiondate had not yet been
set up. The design of an inspection and maintenance program for vehicle emissions and noise
was not done. The ICR notes that the StateIMunicipalitywill assumethis responsibility,
followingthe guidelines provided by the Federal Ministry of Environment.

6.10     The expansionand modernizationof the traffic light system has also facilitated
pedestrians and bicycles at specific crossingpoints. Pedestrian safetywas improved tlxough an
increase in the number of traffic lights that can be activated by pedestrians and by longer
pedestrian cycles. Other measures to improve walking, such as improved access to stations
through the constructionof sidewalks and overpasseswere undertaken.A bicycle path has been
built in the city, and a bicycle parking facilityhas been set up at S5o Gabriel station,with another
planned for Vilarinho.

Improved Access for the Poor

6.11    This objectivewas modestly achieved. Three-quarters of metro users come from low-
income households and for many users it is cheaper to use the metro than the bus. But of course,
delays in project executionhave resulted in a much lower than expected numbers of users, which
until the works are finishedreduces the income from the rail extension,and increasesthe
pressure to raise fares.Access by the poor to the metrolbus system has improved,nonetheless, at
most stations. Sevenminibus lines with reduced fares (R$0.35 instead of the basic fare of R$
1.45)have been established to serve disadvantaged areas. The extensionof the system
to Vilarinho, in Venda Nova, and the integrationof the system at SZo Gabriel have improved
access for the poor, while low income persons have benefited through the improvement in access
at both the Vilarinho and Eldorado stations.



7. Ratings: Belo Horizonte

Relevance

7.1     The relevance of the project's objectives is rated substantial. The objectives of the
project are consistent with Brazil's current development priorities and with the Bank's current
sector and country assistancestrategies.The Government's goals of economic growth and
economic efficiencyare reflected in the project's objectivesas is poverty reduction. The metro

represents a support system for the poor; more than three-quarters of its users come from lower-
income households. However, .thefact that there have been serious delays shows that during the
financial crisis the government had higher priorities.


Efficacy

7.2      On balance, efficacy is rated modest. Important steps have been taken to improve the
urban transport system in Belo Horizonte, and the access is already better for residents north and
west of the metropolitan region to jobs and services in downtown areas, but the project is not yet
complete and therefore the full benefits are not yet being experienced by the users; the final
compoiieiits of the project should, however, be finished in the next few months. At the time of
the mission, the signaling system in the last third of the north branch line (5.7 km.)between Stio
Gabriel and Vilarinho was still manual and thus hindering normal operation of the trains, which
ran only every 25 minutes. The frequency of metro trains is expected to shorten eventually to one
every seven minutes. Stations at Siio Gabriel, Central and Lagoinha are still being modernized;
eight escalators and two elevators are being installed.

7.3      Notwithstanding the improvements made to the metro system, the expected passenger
transit is well below expectations. The increase in passenger trips since the start of the project
has been moderate and is now about 120,000passengers per weekday much lower than the
                                                                          -
original target of over 320,000 passengers projected to be achieved by project completion (SAR,
1995). This wide perfornlance gap can be explained to a large extent by the fact that some of the
linkages between the metro and the bus systems have not been completed and by delays in the
rehabilitation of the rolling stock. Ridership is expected to improve significantly once the last
compoiients of the project are finished. However, it is unlikely that that the anticipated levels of
traffic will be reached immediately as the system will take some time to "bed down".

7.4      The municipality has effectively restructured the bus system within the city and been a
pioneer in the concessioning of the municipal bus routes through competitive bidding. At this
stage though only 60 percent of the demand for metro services can be described as integrated.
Moreover, although management and operational decisions have been decentralized to the state
and local authorities, negotiations for full decentralization including transfer of assets are only
likely to be resolved once the physical project has been completed.

7.5      A centralized traffic management system installed to monitor vehicle circulation and
regulate traffic lights in response to traffic conditions has improved traffic flows, reduced vehicle
accidents and improved pedestrian safety. The number of motor-vehicle accidents in Belo
Horizonte has fallen sharply during the life of the project (from 38,547 in 1995 to 13,073 in
2004). The reduction occurred largely during the period 1995-97 and can be attributed at least in
part to road safety measures including the improved signaling system at pedestrian crossings.


Efficiency

7.6      Efficiency is rated as substantial despite the fact that delays in the execution of the
project have reduced the stream of benefits that it generates. The ERR was 31percent at project
appraisal, 17percent by project closing in June 2004 and is now 15.4percent. However, this is
still a good return and means that the ERR will still be well over the threshold 10percent

acceptabilitylevel when the works are finally finished.Fortunatelythe funds have at last been
secured for this purpose.

7.7     The actual costs of the project are higher than the appraisal estimatebecause of additional
costs for resettlement,higher land market values, higher costs of counterpart financing,and
additionalworks not envisaged at appraisal. Operationaland financialperformance is likelyto
improve when .thephysical installationsare finished and the institutionaland policy development
measures are implemented.Theproject did suffer considerable disbursement interruptions,
mainly due to late effectiveness (postponed by 10months due to problems related to registration
of the loan with the CentralBank) and delays in the procurement process.


Outcome

7.8     Overall, IEG rates the outcomeof the project moderately satisfactory. The rating is
based on the assessmentsof the relevance, efficacy, and efficiencyindicated above and an
assessment of the four objectives, two of which were modestly achieved and two which were
substantiallyachieved.The timetable to achieve the objectives was severelydisrupted by the
financialcrisis in Brazil. Thephysical works included in the project are however now being
completed after long delays.


Institutional Development

7.9     The impact of the project on institutional development is rated substantial. Buslmetro
integrationis unprecedented in Latin America and when it is complete it will be an important
achievement.Progress has been made in expanding state-municipal relations and improving
transportationplanning. The conceptsof decentralizationand of givingpriority to the integration
of the urban transport system in the metropolitan regions are now fully endorsedby state and
municipal authorities and the legal frameworkhas alsobeen completed.Training activitiesand
studiesrelated to modal integrationwere successfullycarried out. A blueprint for urban transport
development for the next ten years now exists in a metropolitan region that previously did not
have a long term master plan for the urban transport sector.

7.10     Theproject furthered the development of a Regional Transportation Coordination
Commission designed to coordiiiate and recommend policies on pricing, urban transport
regulation, and investmentpriorities in the metropolitan region.However, the formal institutional
framework for managing urban transport in the metropolitanregion is only now being set up.

7.11    Institutionaldevelopment has in addition been fhrthered by the introduction of a modem
traffic management system to monitor vehicle circulationand regulate traffic. The project's track
and rolling stock maintenanceworkshop,which was set up with project funding, is adequately
equipped and well-managed.Trainingof STU-BHmanagement was also satisfactorily
accomplished. The mission visited a housing development financed under the project where
people displaced by the constructionof the S5o Gabriel Stationhave been relocated. The
dwellings of 450 familieswere expropriated, and 150were provided with adequate new houses -
the rest chose to receive monetary compensation. Although resettlementwas not a big issue in
this project the learning from the Bank's safeguard measures has been fully absorbed.

Sustainability

7.12     The sustainability of the Belo Horizonte project is rated likely. Although physical and
modal integration have progressed slowly, a positive trend has been maintained. The recent
breakthrough in the availability of financing augers well for the project to be finished in 2006
and improves the likelihood that the flow of net benefits generatedby the project will be
maintained over time. The state and municipal governments continue to advance the modal
integration of the transport system and are making the final arrangements for the transfer of the
metro to the local level.


Bank Performance

7.13      The Bank's perfom~anceis rated satisfactory, given the exceptioi~alcircumstancesthat
befell the project and the proactive activities of the project team to get the project back on track.
Bank advice was instrumental in developing the design of the project based on previous
experiences in earlier projects, and its contribution to ii~stitutionaldevelopment and policy
reform in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan region was valued. Bank assistance in temporarily
bridging the financial gap created by the Federal Government'sbudgetary constraints was critical
for making advances in the decentralization possible, allowing time for political and financial
decisions to be made. The progress made in the development of an integrated transport system in
the metropolitan region and in the decentralization of Brazil's urban railway company was
furthered by the Bank's insistence in holding government offices accountable for project
commitments.

7.14     The Bank recognized that the project was risky given the extent of planned institutional
change, but underestimated the complexity of the decei~tralizationprocess in Belo Horizonte, and
the degree of politicization between .thevarious authorities following the onset of the financial
crisis. It clearly could not have anticipated the time that the project was going to take following
the onset of the national financial crisis, basing its experience on previous urban projects in
Brazil. Delays occurred before effectiveness due to the ambiguousness of Brazilian procurement
law that led to the small contractor association unsuccessfully challenging Bank's standard
bidding documents in co~lrt.It also underestimated the impact of the lack of fiscal space on
prioritization in the infrastructure sector. The Bank was proactive at the time the new
government was elected and a new ministry took over responsibility at national level for the
project. Once there was agreement to try to get the project back on track the Bank acted as an
"honest broker" between the parties and helped them to negotiate a new decentralization
strategy. The persistence of the project team kept the option open for the completion of the
decentralizatioil agenda, even though the project had closed and now the indication from the
Federal Government is that funds will be made available to complete the project this year.


Borrower Performance

7.15 The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. The performance of the
in~plementationagency at the local level (STU-BH) was satisfactory in terms of project
preparation and implementation, and the Municipality of Belo Horizonte actively participated in
the execution of the project. Brazil's Federal Government, the CBTU presidency and the State of

Minas Gerais did not evidenceownership and a steadfast comiitment to the decentralization
program in the prevailing climate of severe financialrestraint;there was a lack of leadership at
senior government levels in furthering the objectivesof the project, and the project had major
failings: (i) the Federal Government failed to fulfill loan agreement commitments relative to the
timely provision of funds and to the date for actual transfer of ownership (assets)of the
commuter metro systems;(b) the state has not yet concluded the integrationof the inter-
municipal bus serviceswith the metro; and (c) the late signingof loan agreement and the
effectivenesspostponement of 10months caused considerable project implementation and
disbursement delays.

7.16    After loan closure the Federal Governmentrecognizedthe negative impacts that its fiscal
space policies were having in the social infrastructuresector and began to take stepsto
counteractthe detrimentaleffects such as the eiicouragementof private sector involvenient in
some urban transportprojects and the allocation of separate h d s to completeprojects that had
beenjeopardized. However, these actions were too late to prevent severedelays in the
completionof the Belo Horizonteproject.



8. Lessons Learned

        The followingare the main lessons that the Bank has learned from its involvement in the
Recife and the Belo Horizontemetropolitan transport projects:

9 It is essentialto createan enablingenvironmentforthe financialsustainabilityofurban
    transport operations;one that achieves a balance between being market-oriented but, at the
    same time, takes into account the urban environment and affordabilityissues. It is also
    important to define a fare policy that squarelyfaces the issues of cost recovery including,
    transparent passenger subsidiesfor the poor and fundingmechanisms to cover operating
    deficits.
9 Thedecentralizationofurbanrail systemsfromthe federaltothe stateor alowerlevelof
    government is desirable because it brings the operator closer to the users, thus allowing for
    the serviceto be more responsiveto user needs and wishes. Decentralization is also likelyto
    facilitateintegrationwith other transport modes since there will be fewer levels of
    government that have to be in agreement with tariff and subsidypolicies.

9 Conflictsamonggovernmentinstitutions,politicalparties, aswell asworker andprivate
    sector lobbies can be a major source of disruption in the executionof largeurban transport
    projects. The Bank shouldbe prepared to assist in the mobilization of negotiating skills for
    conflictresol~~tionshould they be needed.

9 Thetimeittakesto rehabilitaterolling stockshouldnotbe underestimated. Bothprojects
    show that the private firms responsible for deliveryof the rehabilitated trains have
    experienced serioustechnical, administrative and financial problems that had to be resolved.

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet


RECIFE METROPOLITANTRANSPORTDECENTRALIZATION

PROJECT (L3915)



                                                         Appraisal               Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                          Estimate            current estimate        aaaraisal estimate

Original commitment


Total projectcost

Cancellation



Proiect Dates
                 --                                                Original           --               Actual
                                    ---Me

Board approval                                                                                       06/29/1995

Signing                                                                                              04/03/1996

Effeciiveness                                                                                        0911911996

Closingdate        -                                              12/31/2001
                                                                          -                          06/30/2004




                                                                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                                                   a      .
                                                N" Staff weeks                                     US$ ('000)
IdentificationIPreparation                             17.8                                         70.5


Supervision

ICR

Total                                                  96.1                                        515.7


Mission Data
                          Date            No. of          Specializations                        Performance rating
                      (month/year)        persons          represented                       Implmen. Progress Dev. Obj.

Identification1       Februarv 1994          3        Senior Transoort
Preparation                                           Planning (2);'~enior
                                                      Railway Engineer (1)

Appraisal1            March 1995             9        Senior Transport
Negotiation                                           Planner (2); Senior
                                                      Railway Engineer (1);
                                                      FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                                      Resettlement Specialist
                                                      (1); Metro Infrastructure
                                                      Consultant (1); Senior
                                                      Legal Council (2);
                                                      Transport Demand
                                                      Specialist (1)

Supervision          Aug.1,1995                       Resettlement Specialist
                                                      (1); Sr. Transport
                                                      Planner (I)

                     Nov. 30,1995                     Sr. Transport Planner
                                                      (1)

                                                         --                 ---
a-**  -mmw?*w    *"*-   ?Mw M'%,--"-&""-',e*     """ *""a      w"m-m"-m             -*   *--am---      n-*-->--m    mn-*
                  Date                       No. of         Specializations                      Performance rating
             (month/year)                   persons           represented               Implmen. Progress Dev. Obj.

             Mar I , 1996                      3        Sr. Anthropolog~st(I),                   S                 S
                                                        Sr Transport Planner


                                                        (1);Sr. Railway
                                                        Engineer (I)
                                                        Prin.Trans Specialist
                                                        (1)
                                                        Transport Planning (1);
                                                        Resettlement Specialist
                                                        (1)
             June 12,1997                               Transport Specialist (1)

             July 9, 1997                               Transport Specialist (1)

             Nov.21, 1997                               Transport Specialist (1)

             Feb. 20,1998                               Transport Specialist
                                                        (1); Resettlement
                                                        Specialist (1)

             May 4,1998                                 Transport Specialist (I)

             July 14, 1998                              Transport Specialist
                                                        (1);Resettlement
                                                        Specialists (1)

             Dec. 3, 1998                               Transport Specialist (I)

             Feb. 4,1999                                Transport Specialist
                                                        (1);Railway Engineer
                                                        (1
             April 1, 1999                              Transport Specialist
                                                        (1);Resettlement
                                                        Specialist (1)

             May 25,1999                                Transport Specialist (I)

             June 11,1999                               Transport Specialist (I)

             August 12,                                 Resettlement Specialist
             1999                                       (1);Transport
                                                        Specialist (1)
             Febr. 21,2000                              Transport Specialist (I)

             Febr. 21,2000                              Pr. Transport Specialist
                                                        (1)Civil Works
                                                        Consultant (1);
                                                        Resettlement Cons (1)

             Oct. 4, 2000                               Principal Transport SP
                                                        (1); Resettlement
                                                        Specialist (1)
             Mar. 15,2001                               Lead Transp. Specialist
                                                        (1);Financial Mgmt.
                                                        S P ~(1)
                                                               .
             Aug. 8, 2001                               Lead Trans. Spec (1);
                                                        Civil Infras. Spec (1);
                                                        Resettlement Specialist
                                                        (1
             Mar. 26. 2002                              Task Mgr.-Transp.
                                                        Spec (I);lnfrastructure
                                                        Eng. (1)
             July 11,2002                               Lead Trannsport
                                                        Special (1);
                                                        lnfrastructure Consult
                                                        (1)
             Oct. 7, 2002                               Lead Transport Spec.
                                                        (1
             Dec. 30,2002                               Lead Transport
                                                        Specialist (1)

                    Date        No. of         Specializations                Performance rating
                (month/year)    persons         represented               Implmen. Progress Dev. Obj.

                June 25,2003       1        Lead Transport                   S                S
                                            Spec~al~st(1)
                Sept 24,2003       2        Lead Transport                   S                S
                                            Spec~al~st(1); Sector
                                            Leader (I)

                Oct 24,2003        1        Lead Transport Spec              S                S
                                            (1
                Mar.4, 2004        1        Lead Transport                   S                S
                                            Speclal~st(1)
ICR             June 23,2004       2        Lead Transport                   S                S
                                            Spec~al~st(I),
                                            Transport Spec~al~st(I)
,"--- -"--o-                 -  -                          - --           --- -                  -
     &            *w-*x"--e    *   -w-pp-                              % *         *              * -"%*

BELO HORIZONTE METROPLITAN TRANSPORT (LOAN 3916)

                            ect Data (amounts in US$ million)                                                                                                  --
                            ~ ~ m ~ + " m e , a - < " H - , / I X L -                                                   m - m *  m m -
                                                                                Appraisal                             Actual or                    Actual as % of
                                                                                estimate                           current estimate              appraisal estimate

 Original commitment                                                                 99.00                              92.10                            93


Total project cost                                                                197.34                               207.09                           105

 Cancellation                                                                                                             6.90




                                                                                                                                                   Actual


 Board approval
 Signing
 Effectiveness

 Closing date                                                                               12/31/2001                                           06/30/2004
                         #,.,-      "  v  P   -  w  m  "    @  M    -  >  P      w m - - m " m m ~ m > , A -  me---                              -mm




                                                                                                                                          wm*---

                                                                                                 Actual/Latest Estimate                                           -
                              m--                       - w e                                                                         m m

                                                                       NO Staff weeks                                                   US$ ~ O O O )

 Identification/Preparalion                                                  37.7                                                                97.8
 AppraisalINegotiation                                                         2.8                                                               34.1

 Supervision                                                                 63.8                                                               423.0

 ICR                                                                           5.5                                                              27.24
 Total                                                                      109.8              ---                                         582.14
P - , A a . m ' s m w , ,                   -m"                  rn-




- --
 Mission Data                                                                                                          -- -
                                                                                ,"--"
                                          Date                 No. of                Specializations                                     Performance rating
                                      (month/year)           persons                     represented                                  Imple,Prog,       Dev. Obj.

 Identification1                    February 1994                3           Senior Transport Planner
 Preparation                                                                 (2); Senior Railway Engineer
                                                                             (1)
 AppraisallNegotiation March 1995                                            Senior Transport Planner
                                                                             (2); Senior Railway Engineer
                                                                             (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                                                             Metro Infrastructure
                                                                             Consultant (1); Senior Legal
                                                                             Council (2); Transport
                                                                             Demand Specialist (I)

                                    August 1, 1995                           Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                                                             Sr. Transport Planner (I)

                                    Nov. 30,1995                             Sr. Transport Planner (1)

                                    March 1, 1996                            Sr. Anthropologist (1); Sr.
                                                                             Transport Planner (1); Sr.
                                                                             Railway Engineer (1)

                                    Oct. 11, 1996                            Prin Trans Specialist (1)


                                    March 7. 1997                            Transport Planning (1);
                                                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)

                                      Date                   No. of                 Specializations                                               Performance rating
                                (month/year)                persons                   represented                                             Imple,Prog,                       Dev. Obj.

                               July 16, 1997                    1           Transport Specialist(1)                                                              S                 S

                               Oct. 8, 1997                     1           Transport Specialist (1)                                                             S                 S

                               Nov. 21, 1997                    2           Transport Specialist (1);                                                            S                 S
                                                                            Resettlement Specialist (1)

                               Feb. 20,1998                     2           Transport Specialist(1);                                                             S                 S
                                                                            ResettlementSpecialist (1)

                               May 7,1998                       3           Transport Specialist(1);                                                            S                  S
                                                                            InfrastructureEngineer (1);
                                                                            Transport Planner (1)

                               Dec. 3, 1998                     2           Transport Specialist(1);                                                            S                  S
                                                                            Transport Engineer (1)

                               Feb. 10,1999                     2           Transport Specialist(1);                                                             S                 S
                                                                            Railways Specialist (1)

                               June 12,1999                     2           Transport Specialist(1);                                                            S                  S
                                                                            Station Specialist (1)

                               June 12,1999                     2           Pr. Transport Specialist (1);                                                        S                 S
                                                                            InfrastructureConsultant (1)

                               June 12,1999                     1           Transport Specialist (1)                                                            S                  S

                               June 12,1999                     2           Pr. Transport Specialist (I),                                                       S                  S
                                                                            CIL Works Cons. (1)

                               Oct. 29, 2000                    1           Principal Transport SP (1)                                                           U                 S

                               Mar. 21,2001                     2           Lead Transport Specialist                                                           S                  S
                                                                            (1); Fin. Mgmt. Specialist (1)

                               Mar. 14,2002                     1           Tsk. Mgr. and Tra. Spe (1);                                                         S                  S
                                                                            Transport Planner (1);
                                                                            Systems Specialist (1)

                               Dec. 30,2002                     1           Lead Transport Specialist (I)                                                        U                 S

                               June 27,2003                     2           Lead Transport Specialist                                                           S                  S
                                                                            (1); Financial Management
                                                                            (1)
                               Oct. 28, 2003                    1           Lead Transport Specialist (I)                                                       S                  S

                               Feb. 6,2004                      1           Lead Transport Specialist (1)                                                       S                  S

 ICR                           June 26,2004                     3           Lead Transport Specialist;                                                          S                  S
                                                                            Transport Specialist(1);
                                                                            Signalling Consultant (1)
~ ~ ~ - - ' ~ " ~ ~ - - n , - ~ ~ ~ , a . ~ - ~ . - , " ~ , " ~ ~ ~ ' w , ~ ~ ~ ~ . ~ ~ ~ , ~ M , " ~ . ~ , ~ , ~*,, ~..n,--m,m-s...
                                                                                        -m-M,*-*,<,s                                - ~ , ~ . ~ , ~"s.-,,,s-<<.."e<<e~ ,,,,,,,, ~ ~ - ~ ~
                                                                                                                                                   - ~ , -              ~ ~

Annex B. List of Persons Consulted and Organizations Visited


BRASILIA

Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais (SEAIN). MinistCrio do Planejamento
      Jose Carlos Miranda                Secretario
      Carlos Eduardo Lampert

Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU)
      JoZio Luiz da Silva Diaz
      Flavio Mota Monteiro
      Rossinelio Lopez da Fonte

MinistCrio dos Transportes
      Paulo SCrgio Oliveira Passos

MinistCrio das Cidades
      Ermiiiia Therezinha Menon Maricato

Secretaria Nacional de Transporte e da Mobilidade Urbana. MinistCrio das Cidades
      Jose Carlos Xavier                 Secretario
      Luiz Carlos Bertotto               Director de Cidadenia e InclusZio Social
      Jaqueline Filgueiras               Assessora de Gabinete

MinistCrio do Planejamento
      Nelson Machado


RECIPE

Secretaria de Infra-Estrutura do Estado de Pernambuco
      Rosa LGcia Muller Padolfi          Secretaria Executiva de Transportes

SuperintendCncia de Trens Urbanos do Recife (STU-REC)
      Sileno Souza Guedes
      Manoel Mariilho de Barros Filho    Coordenador de Operaqiio
      Regilma Souza                      Assessora ao Superintendente

Municipality of Recife
      Dilson Peixoto

Metropolitan Urban Transport Company (EMTU)
      Evandro Jose Moreira de Avelar     President

BELO HORIZONTE

Empresa de Transporte e de Transito de Belo Horizonte (BHTRANS)
      Ricardo Medanha Ladeira            Diretor - Presidente

Prefeitura Municipal de Belo Horizonte
       Fernando Damata Pimentel          Mayor
       Rodrigo de Oliveira Perpktuo       Gerente de Relagties Internacionais
       RogCrio Carvalho Silva            Assessor

Superintendencia de Trens Urbanos de Belo Horizonte (STU-BH)
       Luiz Roberto Pieroni               Superiiitendente
       Maria Madalena Franco Garcia       Assessora
       Eduardo Ant8nio de Freitas Martins GerSiicia de Planejamento e Engenharia de
                                         Maiiuten@o
       Fernando de Melo Bernardo          Assistelite TCcnico
       Haroldo Alves Lins Junior          Assessor Reassentamento

Secretaria de Estado de Transporte e Obras Publicas
       Agostinho Patnis                   Secretario de Estado
       Roman Victor CCsar                Assessor

Direqiio de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais (DER-MG)
       Luis Otavio Mota Valadares         Diretor de Transporte Metropolitan0

ACADEMICIANS,AND PROFESSIONAL, CORPORATIVE,AND ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS


Universidade Federal de Pernambuco
       Cesar Cavalcanti de Oliveira      Professor Adjunto

Universidade de Brasilia (CEFTRU)
       Yaeko Yamashita                    Professor - Programa de Transportes
       Joaquim Aragiio                    Professor

Movimiento National Pelo Direito ao Transporte (MDT)
       Olmo Xavier                       Executive Secretary

Secretaria de Planejamento Urbano, Transportes e Meio Ambiente. Olinda
       Prof. Oswaldo Lima Neto           Secretario

Comissiio Municipal de Transporte e Trlnsito de Belo Horizonte
Raimundo Machado Filho                   Membro da Comissiio

