Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3916-BR
Shareholders' Agreement
(Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
and
MUNICIPALITY OF BELO HORIZONTE
Dated November 30, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3916-BR
SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1995 among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (the State) and MUNICIPALITY OF 
BELO HORIZONTE (the Municipality).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-nine million 
dollars ($99,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but on condition, inter alia, that the State and the Municipality agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the State and the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the terms and conditions of the 
transfer provided in the Convenio Basico, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project; Management and
Operations of the MG Entity
Section 2.01.  The State and the Municipality declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall collaborate, and cause the MG Entity to collaborate, with CBTU in the 
carrying out of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, environmental, safety, financial, engineering and 
public transportation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, all resources, facilities and services required for the 
Project.
Section 2.02.  The State and the Municipality shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 1996 establish the MG Entity as a legally 
independent corporation, having as majority shareholders the State and the 
Municipality, with sufficient powers and authority to accept the Transfer and to own 
and operate all assets included therein;
(b)
not later than December 15 of each year after the Transfer is effected, 
until December 15, 2001 execute agreements with the MG Entity, satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Contract Plans), providing, inter alia, for the compliance by the MG Entity 
with the Performance Targets and for the financial contributions and other actions 
required from the State and the Municipality to enable the MG Entity to attain such 
targets; and
(c)
duly perform, and cause the MG Entity to duly perform, all their 
obligations under each Contract Plan and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving a Contract Plan or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03.  (a) The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year 
after the Transfer is effected and until the completion of the Project, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the operation of 
the STU-BH System during the corresponding calendar semester preceding each such 
report.
(b)
The State and the Municipality shall, and shall cause the MG Entity after 
the Transfer is effected to, participate in the reviews referred to in Section 2.11 of 
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04.  The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to 
establish not later than three months after the Transfer is effected, and thereafter 
maintain, a management information system satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the 
STU-BH Systems's operations.
Section 2.05.  The State and the Municipality shall:
(a)
not later than one year from the date of this Agreement furnish to the 
Bank a financial, technical and institutional plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
integration and consolidation of the BHMR bus system with the STU-BH System; and
(b)
not later than one month after the entry into operation of the Sao 
Paulo-Vilarinho link, put such plan into effect in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. The State and the Municipality shall, not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter maintain a commission with 
authority to coordinate and recommend common policies on transport pricing, 
regulation, financing, and project evaluation and selection in the BHMR.
Section 2.07. The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to, 
starting not later than one year after the Transfer is effected, offer to the private 
sector, through at least four invitations to bid and under contractual arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
the explotation of train station space, aerial space above stations 
and/or parking terminals; and/or
(b)
the carrying out of automatic fare collection and other activities 
related to the operation of the STU-BH System.
Page  3
Section 2.08. (a) The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, environmental, safety and public transportation practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the State and the Municipality 
shall cause the MG Entity to:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and the State and the Municipality, a 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the MG Entity on said plan.
Section 2.09. The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to 
operate and maintain at all times its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, 
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, safety, environmental, financial 
and public transportation practices.
Section 2.10.  The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to take 
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to 
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
Section 2.11.  The State and the Municipality shall, after the Transfer is 
effected, take all necessary measures, to the satisfaction of the Bank, to transfer 
all of the assets and rights resulting from the execution of the Project to the MG 
entity.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
The State and the Municipality shall cause the MG Entity to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
and the Municipality hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the 
Page  4
State and the Municipality thereof.
Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the State:
Departamento de Estradas de
Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais - DER/MG
Avenida dos Andradas 1120 - 4o andar
30120-010 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
(31) 1187 DEER
For the Municipality:
Empresa de Transportes e Transito
   de Belo Horizonte S.A.
BHTRANS
Rua dos Inconfidentes 1190 -
8o andar
30140-907 Belo Horizonte,
Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
(31) 2922
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K"
   - 5o andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
Page  5
(61) 1146
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
(21) 22793
Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may 
be taken or executed by the General Director of Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem of 
the State and, on behalf of the Municipality, by the President of Empresa de 
Transportes e Transito de Belo Horizonte S.A., or such other person or persons as such 
General Director or President, as the case may be, shall designate in writing, and the 
State and the Municipality shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Dennis Mahar
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Eduardo Brandao de Azeredo
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF BELO HORIZONTE
By /s/ Patrus Ananias de Souza
Authorized Representative
