Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3916-BR
Project Agreement
(Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
Dated November 30, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3916-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1995 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS (CBTU).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-nine million 
dollars ($99,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that CBTU agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to CBTU as a grant;
WHEREAS CBTU, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  CBTU declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, with the collaboration of the State and the Municipality, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, engineering and public transportation practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
CBTU shall complete the study on financing mechanisms under Part C.3(a) 
of the Project not later than one month before the review to be carried out pursuant 
to Section 2.11(b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  CBTU shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a)  CBTU shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
CBTU shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CBTU of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.05.  CBTU shall: (a) maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
unit (the PIU), with staffing, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be in charge, within CBTU, for the coordination of the execution of the 
Project; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PIU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Section 2.06.  In carrying out the training programs under Part C.2 (b) of the 
Project, CBTU shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, for approval, the contents of such programs as well 
as the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than June 1, 1996 exchange views with the Bank on the training 
program for the period July 1996 through December 1996;
(d)
not later than December 1 of each year, starting in 1996, exchange views 
with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the respective following 
calendar year;
(e)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training program and the 
benefits to be derived therefrom;
(f)
consult with the State and the Municipality on the design and execution 
of such training programs and selection of beneficiaries thereunder; and
(g)
furnish to the State and the Municipality copies of any reports sent to 
the Bank pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section.
Section 2.07.  CBTU shall, with the collaboration of the State and the 
Municipality, as applicable:
Page  3
(a)
carry out the studies included in Part C of the Project under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
promptly upon the completion of each such study, furnish to the Bank a 
copy of its findings and recommendations;
(c)
promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on such findings and 
recommendations and prepare plans of action, satisfactory to the Bank, based on such  
recommendations and exchange of views; and
(d)
carry out such plans of action in accordance with their respective terms.
 
Section 2.08.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 2.01 and 3.02 of 
this Agreement, CBTU shall:
(a)
operate the STU-BH System until the Transfer is effected, in accordance 
with appropriate environmental practices; and
(b)
carry out, in a timely manner and in accordance with the recommendations 
of the Environmental Impact Assessment, the actions required to mitigate any adverse 
environmental impact caused by the works covered by such Assessment, including the 
population resettlement action plan included in such Assessment.
Section 2.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall, until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, through the PIU, not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, a report 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request (including 
information on the achievement of the Performance Targets) on the operation of the 
STU-BH System, the compliance of CBTU with its obligations under this Agreement and 
the availability of funds as required to meet its obligations set forth in this 
Agreement, each such report to cover the six-month period ending on December 31 or 
June 30, as the case may be, immediately preceding the issuance of such report.
Section 2.10.  CBTU shall establish, not later than 90 days after the date of 
this Agreement, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
management information system satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the execution of 
the Project and the operation of STU-BH until the Transfer is effected.
Section 2.11.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall:
(a)
in the month of November of each year during the execution of the 
Project, review with the Bank, the Borrower, the State, the Municipality and, if 
applicable, the MG Entity the progress in the execution of the Project, the 
performance of the respective obligations of the Borrower, CBTU, the State and the 
Municipality under the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Shareholders' 
Agreement; and
(b)
in the twenty-fourth calendar month after the Effective Date, conduct a 
comprehensive mid-term review with the Bank, the Borrower, the State, the Municipality 
and the MG Entity of the matters referred to in (a) above, and thereafter take, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, all measures which may be recommended during such 
review as required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 2.12.  CBTU shall, after the Transfer is effected, take all necessary 
measures, to the satisfaction of the Bank, to transfer all of the assets and rights 
resulting from the execution of the Project to the MG entity.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CBTU
Section 3.01.  CBTU shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public transportation 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  CBTU shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public transportation practices.
Page  4
Section 3.03.  CBTU shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04.  CBTU shall, until the Transfer is effected, take all action 
necessary to achieve the Performance Targets.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  CBTU shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and separate accounts adequate to reflect all resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
CBTU shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CBTU 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CBTU thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CBTU:
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20.531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
21-22.793
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70.040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CBTU may be 
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as its President 
shall designate in writing, and CBTU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Dennis Mahar
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS
By /s/ Jose Antonio Esposito
   /s/ Paulino Talarico Correa
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
Page  6
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.1:
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for the works of installation of the traffic control system under Part 
A.1 (f) of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works, estimated to cost less than $350,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent, 
respectively, per contract and $500,000 and $17,500,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. CBTU shall use bidding 
documents, acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized form for this Project, in the 
procurement under this Part C.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works to be awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part B hereof; and (ii) the first contract for goods and the first 
contract for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part C hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
Page  7
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consorcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
CBTU shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change order under 
a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods 
(and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and 
conditions of sale.
Part F:
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacþo da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established by 
Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other 
tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in 
whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Performance Targets
Target                1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
1.  Total number
    of passengers
    carried
    (millions
    of linked
    trips)            35        38      41      44      48      105    106
2.  Staff costs
    as a %
    of total
    revenue          142       134     156     160     161       69     69
3.  Revenue cost
    coverage (%)      50        51      42      43      44      100    101
Page  8
4.  Working ratio   2.00      1.98    2.43    2.39    2.39 1.051.04
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Staff" is the total average number of employees during one year in the 
STU-BH System or, after the Transfer, the MG Entity;
(b)
"Revenue cost coverage" is the ratio between: (i) the sum of operating 
revenues and non-operating revenues; and (ii) working costs;
(c)
"Operating revenues" means revenues from all sources related to the 
operations of the STU-BH System;
(d)
"Working costs" means the aggregate of all expenses related to the 
operations of the STU-BH System, including administration and adequate maintenance, 
but excluding taxes and payments in lieu of taxes and provision for depreciation and 
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e)
"Working ratio" means the ratio between working costs incurred during one 
year and operating revenues received in the same year.
