The World Bank
FOL OMCIAL USE ONLY
N                                               RNsnNM 9905
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1079-CE)
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency                : Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
Rates of Exchange
Appraisal (October 31, 1980) : USS 1 - Rs 15.6
Present                       : US$ 1 - Rs 40.3
Weights and Measures
1 long ton                               1.016 metric ton
1 bushel (bu) of paddy   =               46 lb
1 acre (ac)                              0.405 hectare (ha)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCB     -     Coconut Cultivation Board
DA      -     Department of Agriculture
DAS     -     Department of Agrarian Services
DH      -     Department of Highways
DLG     -     Department of Local Government
DMEC    -     Department of Minor Export Crops
ERR     -     Economic Rate of Return
GOSL    -     Government of Sri Lanka
ID      -     Irrigation Department
IDA     -     International Development Association
IFAD    -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LD      -     Livestock Department
O&M     -     Operation and Maintenance
PCR     -     Project Completion Report
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
WRB     -     Water Resources Board
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



DIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~O C.IILU                            L
THE WORLD BANKON
Washington. DC 20433
U.S A.
O.-oE dc OsKv.Ce.wtal
Opsaeuiw IVAlua
September 19, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Second
Rural Develonment Proiect (Credit 1079-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Pizoject
Completion Report on Sri Lanka Second Rural Development Project (Credit 1079-CE)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This documer. t has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
SRI LAA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPHINT PROJECT
(Credit 1079-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE      ............................                          . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .                                               iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Identity.                    .                    1
Project Background and Sectoral Context . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project Implementation.                 .                 4
Project Results .                                        11
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Bank Performance .                                       13
Borrower Performance and Project Relationship . . . . . . 14
Consulting Services .                                    14
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .  17
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits  . . . . . 23
Table 2: Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 3: Credit Disbursements . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . 27
Table 4: Project Implementation . . . .   . . . . . . . . . 28
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 6: Project Results .            .34
Table 7: Record of Compliance with Major Covenants  . . . 35
Table 8: Use of Bank's Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRILANR&
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1079-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural
Development Project in Sri Lanka, for which Credit 1079-CE in the amount of SDR
25.6 million (US$33.5 million) was approved on December 9, 1980. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1990, four years behind schedule. Last disbursement was on
November 9, 1990 and an outstanding balance of SDR 2.74 million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III were prepared by the
Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department 1, Asia Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower's Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation.
Preparation of the PCR was initiated in early Februr-' 1991. The PCR was
prepared based, inter alia, on: (a) the Staff Appraisal Rep, :t (Number 2942-CE);
(b) Development Credit Agreement (1079-CE); (c) minutes ur credit negotiations;
(d) correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; (e) internal Bank
memoranda; (f) supervision reports; (g) evaluation reports of project components;
and (h) discussions with officials of the implementing agencies.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRILANA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1079-CE)
EVALUATION SIMIR
Obiectivs
i.          The main objective of the project was to improve the productivity,
income and living standards of people in the two districts of Matale and Puttalam
by rehabilitating and improving the economic infrastructure, improving and
expanding the provision of inputs and services required by the agriculture
sector, stimulating agricultural production, and improving the social
infrastructure. The project formulation was based on the underlying premise that
the existing economic and social infrastructure in the two project districts were
substantially underutilized and that their increased and more efficient
utilization, including provision of finance for private investments in the
production base, would lead to rapid and significant improvement in the economic
and social well-being of the people in the districts. The project demonstrated
the appropriateness of that approach.
Implementation Experience
ii.         The project consisted of a wide and diverse range of subprojects
covering the economic and social areas. However, it focussed on the development
of agriculture, mainly by (a) rehabilitating/improving existing small irrigation
schemes to improve/increase rice production; (b) expanding/improving agricultural
support facilities and services, including agricultural credit, to provide
increased and improved agricultural production inputs; and (c) promoting the
development of coconut, minor export crops, and forestry. Complementing these
directly productive subprojects, the project also included limited investments
to improve rural transportation, health, education, drinking water supply, and
rural electrification. Altogether, twenty-five government agencies were involved
in implementing the project.
iii.        Implementation of the project was initially phased over a five-year
period from mid-1981 to mid-1986. However, implementation did not progress as
anticipated and the project was extended four times, each time for one year, to
achieve the set targets and to maximize utilization of the IDA Credit. Actual
disbursements amounted to SDR 22.86 million or about 89Z of the total IDA Credit
of SDR 25.6 million. Actual project cost in local currency was about 33% higher
than appraisal estimate due to domestic inflation and longer project
implementation; t-j in US dollar terms actual cost was lower (US$39.3 million



iv
compared to appraisal estimate of US$50 million) due to devaluation of the Sri
Lankan rupee.
iv.         The main reasons for the delay in project implementation were:  (a)
manpower shortages in the initial stage, in some of the implementing agencies;
(b) severe budgetary constraints resulting in shortage of local counterpart
funda; (c) worsening of the security situation in later years of the project
which caused project staff and contractors to stay away from project sites which
in turn led to disruptions of project work.; (d) shortage of construction
material.; and (e) delays in procurement of project goods. Despite these delays,
implementation of the project as a whole had generally progressed satisfactorily
in that the physical targets set during appraisal were essentially achieved by
the end of 1987, only about a year and a half behind schedule. The latter two
extensions of the Closing Date were granted essentially to enable fuller
utilization of the IDA Credit, the local currency equivalent of which had
increased substantially due to continuous and significant depreciation of the Sri
Lankan Rupee.  Fuller utilization of the IDA Credit had in turn enabled the
actual physical targets achieved by many of the project components to exceed
significantly their appraisal estimates.
Results
v.          The overall performance of the project can be considerea a success
as it has achieved its main objectives, namely to improve the productivity,
incomes and living standards of people in Puttalam and Matale districts. As
noted above, the actual results achieved had equalled or exceeded the physical
targets set at appraisal for essentially all the project components.  A full
assessment of the project's benefits and impact was not feasible because much of
the required data were not available. However, there are indications, based on
available data, which clearly demonstrate that the overall benefits and impact
of the project have been substantial.  The project has generated sjgnificant
increases in yields and production of paddy, coconuts, and minor export crops,
which together constituted the major direct benefits (para. 46). It alleviated
the overall living conditions of the rural people and their work skills by
improving the roads network, health services, rural electrification, drinking
water supply, and educational facilities. Although the benefits outlined below
cannot be easily quantified, expansion of rural roads has clearly benefitted the
rural communities by improving access to markets and non-farm employment
opportunities, facilitating the movement of labor and farm inputs, and improving
the delivery of other rural services. Bringing electricity to villages which had
none before not only improved the well-being of households but also stimulated
the expansion of small rural industries and improved their operations. Access
to better quality education, medical services, and drinking water improved the
health and skill performance of the people.   Some diversification of the
agricultural production base and income was also promoted by the minor export
crops component and to a lesser extent by the fisheries and livestock components.
Sustainability
vi.         Having been based on an already existing institutional set-up,
project activities, even after their cessation, would be sustainable.   The
project district level staff, employed for planning and implementation of the



v
project, vnuld be absorbed by the planning offices in the respecLive districts.
Physica2 assets created by the project activities were harded over to the
reopective agencies for continuous operation and maintenance (O&M), and staff
recruited for project purposas were absorbed into the cadres of the respective
agencies.  The agricultural zredit component appears sustainable in view of its
satisfactory loan recovery performance.  However, funds provided for O&M of
irrigation schemes and rural roads have been inadequate. If the shortage of O&M
funds were to continue, the economic life and long-run sustainability of these
assets would be adversely affected.
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.        The project confirmed the appropriateness and replicability under Sri
Lanka's conditions of the approach taken to achieve a broad-based development of
the country's districts which was initiated tunder the Kurunegala Rural
Development Project (Part I, para. 4). Other main lessons learned are that! (a)
in view of the involvement of a multitude of line agencies in project
implementation, the project design should have focussed more clearly on
organization and management aspects to ensure effective coordination among these
agencies; (b) supervision of th; pcoject would have been easier if it did not
include such a wide and diverse range of subprojects; (c) the project period
should bave been longer than envisaged given the inevitable delays in
implementation when such a large number of line agencies are involved and in view
of che shortage of local counterpart funds; (d) allocation of adequate O&M funds,
especially for irrigation schemes and roads, should have been incorporated as a
requirement under the project, including the assumption by beneficiaries of
responsibilities for O&M of the irrigation schemes; (e) greater participation in
rehabilitation and O&M of irrigation schemes, rural roads, and water supply
schemes by beneficiaries would be required in order to meet their needs; and (f)
more emphasis should be given to the implementation of water management programs
aimed at more efficient and effective water utilization, including the formation
of water user groups for this purpose.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRILAR
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1079-CE)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name                    Second Rural Development Project
Credit No.                      1079-CE
Vice Presidential Unit   :    ASIAG
Country                   :     Sri Lanka
Sector                    :    Agriculture
Sub-Sector                      Rural Development
i          Project Background and Sectoral Context
1.          Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy.
Recognizing the pivotal role of the agriculture sector in stimulating economic
growth and rural development, the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL) medium-term
plans and programs for the sector concentrate on: (a) increasing agricultural
and rural employment as well as improving income levels, particularly for the
economically disadvantaged people, (b) expanding agricultural production to
achieve a high degree of food self-sufficiency and to improve nutritional
standards, and (c) increasing export earnings from both traditional export
crops (tea, coconut, and rubber) and non-traditional or minor export crops,
such as cocoa, coffee, and spices.
2.          GOSL strategy for achieving these objectives had emphasized better
use of existing resources through institutional arid policy improvements as
well as rehabilitation of the production base. Among policies and programs
being given high priority by GOSL were: (a) establishment of appropriate price
incentives for producers; (b) strengthening agricultural support services such
as extension, research, credit, storage, transportation, and marketing;
Cc) improving input supply services, especially for seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides; (d) expanding and rehabilitating the area under minor export
crops; (e) expanding the irrigated area and improving water management;
(f) improving and expanding rural roads and electrification; and
(g) decentralizing planning and development processes.
3.          GOSL started to decentralize the planning and development
processes in 1975 by transferring more responsibility and autonomy for
carrying out these activities to the country's 24 districts. As part of the
decentralization program and to provide an operational content to it, GOSL is
undertaking integrated rural development projects in a number of districts.
These projects emphasize low-cost, quick-yielding, labor-intensive investments
aimed at better utilization of the existing economic and social



2
infrastructures. A major advantage of these projects is their responsiveness
to local development needs and priorities.
4.          The IDA-supported Kurunegala Rural Development Project (Cr. 891-
CE) was the first attempt by GOSL to develop an entire district in an
integrated manner. The project closed in 1986 and, as a whole, can be
considered a success because it achieved its main objectives of increasing
agricultural production, creating employment, and improving the income and
living standards of the rural population in the district. It has also served
as a model to be replicated in otier districcs, and many of the lessons
learned during implementation were incorporated in subsequent rural
development projects. To date, 14 projects have been or ara being implemented
(three financed by IDA, two by IFAD, and nine by bilateral donors). GOSL
intends to have such projects implemented in all the districts.
Project Objectives and Description
5.          Objectives.   The project sought to improve the productivity,
income and living standards of people in the two districts of Matale and
Puttalam by rehabilitating and improving the economic infrastructure,
improving and expanding the provision of inputs and services required by the
agriculture sector, stimulating agricultural production, and improving the
socia. infrastructure.
6.          Components.   The project components as appraised were as follows
(proportion of total baseline costs indicated in parenthesis):
(a)   Economic Infrastructure (46Z), including: (i) rehabilitation of
existing  rrigation systems and improved water management;
(ii) improvement of existing roads and construction of new roads;
(iii) bringing electricity to villages; (iv) installation of wells
in areas deficient in drinking water supplies; and (v) groundwater
exploration;
(b)   Inputs and Services (23Z), including: (i) provision of agricultural
credit; (ii) improvement of existing facilities for fertilizer
retail outlets, storage of paddy and pesticides; (iii) improvement.
of livestock services, and (iv) provision of additional staff and
supporting equipment;
(c)   Agricultural Production (20Z), including: (i) development of minor
export crops and coconut; (ii) reforestation/afforestation of
degraded land; (iii) improvement of landing and shore facilities at
fishing centers; (iv) development of sericulture; and (v) provision
of staff and office facilities;
(d)   Social Infrastructure (7Z), including: (i) construction and
equipping of hospital facilities (operating theater, surgical ward,
operating clinics, and staff quarters), and provision of
ambulances; and (ii) improvement of education and vocational
training through the provision of classrooms and workshops,
teaching aids and other supporting equipment, and staff quarters;
and



3
(e)   Project Coordination and Management (1'?), including provision of
additional staff, office equipment, vehicles, and consultant
services tc assist in project implementation.
Ppv1ect Design and Organization
7.         Desig.   Project design had used as a model the Kurunegala Rural
Development Project and the experience gained from its implementation. The
main assumption underlying the concept and formulation of the project was that
the existing economic resources and social infrastructure in the two project
districts (Matale and Puttalam) were substantially underutilized and that
their increased and more efficient utilization, mainly through the upgrading
of institutional services and infrastructure and provision of finance for
private sector investments in the production base, would lead to rapid and
significant improvement in the economic and social well-being of the people in
the districts. The pro4ect covered a wide range of development aspects and
attempted to complement directly productive investments, such as
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and development of coconut and minor
export crops, with limited investments in agricultural support services,
transportation, health, education, etc., to improve the utilization and
effectiveness of existing facilities, to reduce regional disparities, and to
develop the social infrastructure for growth in the long term.
8.         The project was generally well prepared.  The timing of the project
was appropriate because it came at the outset of the liberalizatioa of
economic policy in the country and helped to stimulate further private
investments in the production base. Additionally, the project supported the
newly introduced decentralization program at a time when it was critical to
demonstrate that this approach would lead to increased respunsiveness of
development efforts to local needs and priorities and would promote a more
balancea regional development. Perhaps the weakest design issue was the
planned implementation period which was too short.
9.         Organization.   Due to its diverse development operations and the
wish to use existing agencies rather than creating a new institutional setup
for this purpose, the project was implemented by about 25 agencies (including
two banks) from 12 ministries. To achieve project coordination, a Project
Steering Committee was established at the national level and a Project
Coordinating Committee in each of the two project districts. In each
district, a project office, headed by a Project Director, was set up to
monitor, supervise and coordinate implementation of work programs of the
various agencies in the district. The Regional Development Division of the
Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation provided overall supervision
and coordination of the operations of the project offices.
10.        To some extent, preparation and implementation of certain project
investments and activities suffered from a lack of clarity in defining the
role and expected coordination among the agencies concerned, particularly
where different agencies were called upon to work on related at)ects of the
same type of investment or activity. An example of this was clearly observed
in coconut development which involved the participation of three agencies -
the Coconut Cultivation Board admiristered the subsidy programs for plantings
of this crop, the Department of Agriculture provided the agricultural
extension work, and the Department of Minor Export Crops was responsible for



4
carrying out the program for intercropping in coconut holdings. Other
examples are the involvement of (a) the Irrigation Department and the
Department of Agrarian Services in the rehabilitation and operation of
irrigation schemes. and (b) the Department of Highways and Department of Local
Govornment in the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads.
11.        Although the use of a multiplicity of existing agencies would have
contributed to a slower than anticipated project implementation, overall
organizational experience has been positive and more cost effective than the
establishment of yet another agency.
Pro1ect Imp1elentation
12.        A summary review of the implementation experience of the project
compon*nts with emphasi- on the directly productive components and the
critical vAriances between planned targets and the actual results achieved are
preser:ted in the following paragraphs.
13.        Implementation of the project was initially phased over a five-year
period from mid-1981 to mid-1986. However, implementation did not progress as
anticipated and the project had to be extended four times, each time by one
year, to achieve the set targets and to maximize utilization of the IDA
Credit. Actual disbursements amounted to SDR 22.86 million or about 891 of
the total IDA Credit of SDR 25.6 million. Actual project cost in local
currency was about 33Z higher than SAR estimate mainly due to domestic
inflation; but in US dollar terms actual cost was lower (US$39.3 million
compared to SAR eb 'mate of US$50 million) due to devaluation of the Sri
Lankan Rtupee (Part III, Table e^)
14.        The main reasons for the delay in project implementation were:  (a)
manpower saortages in the initial stages in some of the implementing agencies;
(b) severe budgetary constraints resulting in shortage of local counterpart
funds; (c) worsening of the security situation in later years of the project
which caused project staff and contractors to stay away from project sites
which in turn had led to disruptions of project works; (d) shortage of
construction materials; and (e) delays in procurement of project goods.
Despite these delays, implementation of the project as a whole had generally
progressed satisfactorily in that the physical targets set during appraisal
were essentially achieved by the end of 1987, only about a year and a half
behind schedule. The latter two extensions of the Closing Date were granted
essentially to enable fuller utilization of the IDA Credit, the local currency
equivalent of which had increased substantially due to continuous and
significant depreciation of the Sri Lanka Rupee. Such exten*ions were
justified given the fact that the project provided a line of finance for rural
development that was insufficient to complete essential development works in
the districts. Fuller utilization of the IDA Credit had in turn enabled the
actual physical targets achieved by many of the project components to exceed
significantly appraisal estimates and reduce the works ieft for future
development initiatives. In providing the required housing, office
facilities, and transport vehicles, the project enabled the staff of the
concerned agencies to carry out their tasks and to do them more efficiently.
15.        Irritation and water management.  Accounting for about one fourth
of the total project cost, the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and
improved water management to raise paddy production and yields constitute the
single most important component of the project. A total of 15 major and 240
minor irrigation schemes covering a total of about 29,500 ac were to be
rehabilitated. The rehabilitation actually completed amounted to 21 major and



5
360 minor irrigation schemes covering a total area of about 39,100 ac. This
significant increase in actual performance vis-a-vis the appraisal targets was
made possible by the substantial increase in the local currency equivalent of
the IDA Credit (para. 14).
16.        Although the number of schemes and area rehabilitated significantly
exceeded appraisal targets, the absence of an effective institutional
arrangement, which would reflect the needs of farmers regarding the design and
implementation of the rehabilitation works, was a major deficiency. As a
result, some farmers did not feel sufficiently committed to repair and
maintain these schemesl".  Other important constraints include: (a) programs
for improved agricultural and water management practices had not been
implemented in some of the rehabilitated schemes; (b) reluctance by the
Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) to take over O&M for some of the minor
irrigation schemes rehabilitated by the Irrigation Department (ID); and (c)
lack of downstream works at some of the minor irrigation schemes.
17.        DAS is responsible for O&M of minor irrigation schemes, and ID for
the rehabilitation of all irrigation schemes. Shortage of .-unds may have
prompted DAS's reluctance and therefore often delayed takeover of the
rehabilitated minor irrigation schemes. ID and DAS are also responsible for
the implementation of improved water management programs in the major schemes
and minor schemes respectively, the underlying hypothesis of which is that
water saved during the main rainy season (Maha) can be used to cultivate a
second crop during the season of lower rainfall (Yala). Sowing method for the
first crop, rotational use of water during Maha, crop diversification during
the second crop season, use of short maturity varieties, and mobilization of
farmer group action through education and training are some of the key
elements in efforts to improve the efficiency of water use. Implementation of
water management programs have generally been satisfactory.
18.        The rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes and improved water
management, which had increased the amount and reliability of water, together
with increased cropping intensities and use of fertilizers and other inputs
significantly increased paddy yields in the project areas to an estimated
average amount of about 65 bushels (1.36 metric ton) per ac compared with
about 45 bushels (0.94 metric ton) at appraisal. Total annual paddy
production has been estimated to increase from about 34,000 metric tons at
appraisal to 71,200 metric tons at full development.
19.        Agricultural credit.   The project provided agricultural credit to
facilitate farmers' access to inputs. In terms of project costs, this
component is the second most important accounting for nearly one fifth of the
total amount. Credit funds to borrowers were channelled through the Bank of
Ceylon and the Peoples Bank. These two banks granted a total of 27,715 loans
for Rs 182 million. The amount of credit disbursed to borrowers was double
1/   This shortcoming has been recently corrected.  Under the recently
approved National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, a farmer
organization must be established for each scheme proposed for
rehabilitation, and farmers have to contribute at least 1OZ of
rehabilitation costs and undertake to operate and maintain the scheme.
It is expected that this requirement will apply to rehabilitation works
undertaken under rural development projects.



6
the amount envisaged during appraisal. About 59% of the credit financed
seasonal inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, etc.) mainly for paddy
production, and the remaining 41% financed medium and long-term loans for
procurement of farm equipment (mainly for irrigation and cultivation purposes,
including hand sprayers), plant nurseries, storage facilities, and transport
vehicles. The recovery rates of project loans averaged about 85Z.
20.        The increased use of seasonal inputs, made possible by credit funds
under the project, contributed significantly to the increase in paddy
production as they were an essential complement to the effective use of the
increased amount and reliability of water brought about by rehabilitation of
the irrigation schemes. Increased use of agricultural inputs was also
facilitated by the improved facilities for these inputs financed under the
agricultural support services' component, although this component accounted
for less than one per cent of the total project cost.
21.        Forestry.   Sizable parcels of land in the two project districts
(some 402 in Matale and 20% in Puttalam) have rough/steep topography and
shallow soils, most of which are best suited to be under forest. As it is,
some of these lands (government owned) are being used for Chena (slash-and-
burn) cultivation and have been degraded through over-exploitation. This
over-exploitation has also been taking place on some tea plantations which are
steep-sloped and in the catchment areas of the Mahaweli Ganga in Matale.
22.        To reverse the situation and to arrest further soil erosion and its
adverse consequences, GOSL has been carrying out a program of reforestation
and afforestation of these lands. The trees planted include timber, pulp and
fuelwood species. In support of this program, the project provided for the
afforestation and reforestation of 16,500 ac. The actual area of
afforestation and reforestation achieved, however, amounted to 13,038 ac. The
shortfall, which was due to lack of planting materials, is being rectified by
the additional plant nurseries established under the project. Four nurseries
have been set up instead of three envisaged during appraisal. The tractors
provided under the project have all been procured.
23.        Coconut development.    At appraisal, it was envisaged that the
project would provide funds to assist privately-owned coconut holdings to:
(a) improve the productivity of about 10,000 ac by improvements in drainage,
flood protection and water conservation; (b) rehabilitate about 7,500 ac by
replantirg and planting; and (c) intercrop 1,700 ac with minor export crops,
mainly coffee, cocoa and pepper. Responsibility for the first two categories
was assigned to the Coconut Cultivation Board (CCB), and the third category to
the Department of Minor Export Crops (DMEC). The actual results achieved for
the three categories are 21,271 ac, 12,193 ac, and 281 ac, respectively. The
significantly higher tha.i envisaged acreages achieved for the first two
categories were due to increased farmer demand encouraged by the provision of
GOSL subsidies to defray part of the cost of these activities, and by
effective extension work undertaken by CCB. On the other hand, the poor
performance of intercropping was due to the reluctance of farmers to accept
crops selected for this purpose because the crops were unfamiliar and in some
cases had long maturity periods and high development costs. Another
contributing factor was the shortage of plants which farmers had wanted to use
for intercropping.



7
24.        In addition, a 5-ac coconut research substation and a fruit tree
nursery were established as envisaged during appraisal. The research
substation is conducting applied research and the nursery has already begun to
supply fruit seedlings to farmers for intercropping in their coconut holdings.
25.        Although the acreages achieved under productivity improvements and
rehabilitation were significantly larger than anticipated, the quality of
implementation of these activities had suffered from a number of deficiencies:
(a) contour drains to prevent soil erosion were poorly constructed;
(b) inappropriate time of planting, poor maintenance and subsequent death of
plants which required their removal and replacement; (c) delays in subsidy
payments; (d) individual subsidies which were paid in several installments did
not coincide with the timing and costs of the different phases of development;
and (d) lack of coordination among the agencies concerned, of which good
examples are (i) the absence of proper timing of coconut planting and
intercropping which comes under the responsibility of CCB and DMEC
respectively, and (ii) overlapping jurisdiction for extension support by CCB,
DMEC and the Department of Agriculture (DA). This led to implementation
delays, higher costs, and resultant improvements/rehabilitation which were
less effective than expected. Efforts have been made to have a unified
extension service but this has yet to materialize. The advisory services of
the CCB, DMEC, DA, and the Livestock Department continue to render technical
advice in their respective fields.
26.        Minor export crops.    This component was included in the project
to support GOSL's crop diversification efforts, improve the capability of DMEC
staff and its operations, and generate additional employment and incomes to
farmers, especially those owning small plots commonly referred to as home
gardens. It was envisaged at appraisal that the project would provide funds
to: (a) farmers to replant/new plant 7,890 ac of minor export crops consisting
mainly of pepper, coffee, cocoa, cardamon, and other spices; and (b) DMEC to
(i) establish a nursery to provide improved planting material to farmers,
(ii) strengthen the capability of the DMEC research institute on cardamon
research, pest and disease control, cocoa fermentation, and crop processing,
(iii) establish a center to train DMEC staff and farmers on cultivation
practices and crop processing, (iv) construct an office building and
additional staff quarters to alleviate the shortage of office space and staff
housing, and (v) procure vehicles to improve staff mobility so as to
facilitate their work.
27.        The total area of minor export crops actually planted and replanted
amounted to 10,525 ac or about one-third higher than the appraisal estimate
(para. 26). The significantly higher than anticipated demand for such
plantings was due mainly to the profitability of the crops and the fact that
an important share of the cost of their establishment had been financed by
subsidies provided by GOSL. However, the quality of implementation of this
activity suffered from inappropriate time of planting and poor maintenance of
plants, delays in subsidy payments, and subsidy instalment payments not
coinciding with the timing and costs of the different development phases.
These deficiencies, which also afflicted plantings under the coconut
development component (para. 25), resulted in delayed and added implementation
costs.
28.        As for the other appraisal targets (para. 26), they have all been
achieved. Thus, the nursery, albeit smaller than envisaged, is producing and



8
providing improved planting material to farmers; the training center for DMEC
staff and farmers has been operating as intended; and the work being conducted
by the research station include carrying out germ plasm collection, yield
trials and plant hybridization.
29.        Fisheries.  This component, accounting for only about one percent
of total project cost, was expected to improve landing and shore facilities at
major fishing centers in Puttalam District. The improvements included
construction of jetties at three sites, establishment of a fishery service
center to facilitate the operations of fishermen and fish traders, and
installation of beacon lights at selected locations to ensure safer and
quicker access by fishermen to fish landing centers. The component also
provided transport vehicles and housing for fisheries staff to improve their
operations. In terms of their physical targets set during appraisal, all the
improvements and facilities were essentially achieved. Indications are that
the improvements and facilities have increased the operational efficiency of
fisheries activities in the district.
30.        Agricultural support services.   This component provided additional
and improved facilities for: (a) the sale and storage of fertilizers,
pesticides, and seeds; and (b) veterinary care of cattle, including their
handling. Facilities under (a) were implemented by DAS and those under (b) by
the Livestock Department (LD). In addition, the component provided additional
office space, staff housing and transport vehicles for DAS and LD to improve
their operations. The targets set for these facilities at appraisal have been
achieved except for a few minor items (cattle handling and seed/pesticide
improvements), the actual achievements of which had fallen short of the
appraisal estimates due to requirements which turned out to be less than
envisaged. The shortfalls were not significant. The facilities provided,
although small (one percent) in terms of total project costs, have expanded
and improved the quality of the services concerned, particularly the
establishment of new veterinary clinics (4) and improvements to existing
veterinary clinics (4) which have been providing farmers with better access to
and quality treatment of their cattle.
31.        Sericulture.  It was envisaged at appraisal that this component
would finance the establishment of a land settlement scheme for 125 settlers
who would engage in sericulture. The component was not implemented because it
was not technically and financially feasible to establish such a scheme,
including the prospective settlers' inexperience with sericulture and non-
availability of a suitable site for the scheme.
32.        Groundwater exploration.  This component was expected to:
(a) strengthen field investigations and advisory capabilities of the Water
Resources Board (WRB) in Puttalam by alleviating the shortage of office space,
equipment and transport vehicles for the staff concerned; and (b) finance the
drilling of about 60 investigation boreholes and 60 test wells to facilitate
the siting of shallow and deep tubewells which farmers were expected to
construct with loans under the agricultural credit component. It was
subsequently determined that investigation boreholes were uneconomic and not
as useful compared to test wells for the purpose intended so that a
significantly higher number of test wells (115) were drilled in place of
investigation boreholes of which only five were drilled. Ninety-one of the
test wells were subsequently converted to tubewells to supply drinking water



9
(para. 39). The appraisal targets for all the items to strengthen WRB had
been met.
33.        Roads.  This is the third largest single component, accounting for
about 13Z of total project costs. Under the component, rural roads
(essentially feeder roads) were to be constructed and rehabilitated, and
smaller roads used by man-drawn or animal-drawn carts and pedestrians
upgraded. The Department of Highways (DH) was to carry out these activities
using labor intensive methods supplemented by some equipment, including
vehicles, to be provided by the project. The actual results achieved amounted
to about 170 miles of roads rehabilitated, 255 miles of smaller roads
upgraded, and 7 miles of new roads constructed. The corresponding mileage
numbers set at appraisal were generally lower at 144, 175, and 7. The
significantly higher mileage actually rehabilitated was due mainly to the
increased availability of project funds in local currency equivalent
(para. 14) which had also enabled a bridge and causeway, not envisaged during
appraisal, to be constructed. The equipment and vehicles were provided to the
DH as envisaged.
34.        Although the actual mileage achieved was satisfactory,
implementation of this component suffered from a number of constraints. These
included poor quality of construction/rehabilitation because of inadequate
supervision of the works, shortage of road construction materials, and
procurement delays which led to delayed construction and added costs.
Deterioration of the security situation in recent years, by preventing access
of contractors and supervisors to project sites, contributed to inadequate
supervision and also disrupted and delayed the implementation of project
works. Inadequate supervision was also due to shortage of qualified personnel
during the initial period of the project.
35.        In addition, many of the rehabilitated and new roads have suffered
from inadequate maintenance. Although funds allocated for this activity had
increased in recent years, they have continued to be inadequate. DLG which
was responsible for this matter has repeatedly cited the shortage of funds for
this purpose as the major contributory cause.
36.        Rural electrification.   Under this component, a number of selected
villages with good potential for rapid economic growth were provided with
electricity to stimulate such growth. The electrification process involved
mainly constructing 33 kv and 11 kv lines, substations, and low tension lines.
Eighty electrification schemes were implemented instead of 10 schemes
envisaged during appraisal. This component accounted for about 6 percent of
total project cost.
37.        The electrification schemes had benefitted significantly the
economies of the villages concerned. In particular, rural enterprises were
expanded and the efficiency of their operations improved. The well-being of
households with electricity also improved.
38.        Health.   To alleviate the shortage of basic medical services and
to improve their quality, this component was expected to provide: (a) a new
operating theatre and surgical ward at a district hospital in Puttalam, a new
operating clinic and outpatient units in Matale, and basic surgical
laboratory, and equipment to these new facilities as well as to other
hospitals; (b) living quarters for medical officers and other hospital staff;



10
and (c) ambulances, transport vehicles and equipment (mainly electrical supply
schemes) for outlyintg hospitals. The targets set at appraisal for all the
above have been achieved. In addition, the project financed two surgical
wards, five maternity wards, nine health centers, and improvements to five
hospitals which were not envisaged at appraisal. The actual results achieved
compared with the appraisal estimates are presented in Part III, Table 4. It
was quite apparent that implementation of this component improved
significantly the welfare and well-being of many people in the districts. For
example, more people in outlying and remote areas now have access to the
services of medical officers, whereas in the past, these officers were
unwilling or unable to work in these areas because proper living quarters for
them were not available.
39.        Water supply.  Under this component, 250 shallow wells for drinking
water were constructed as envisaged during appraisal. However, installation
of a number of wells had been delayed and completed at higher costs because
handpumps were corroded by the high iron content of the water, end had to be
replaced. In addition, three water supply schemes and 235 tubewells,
including 91 converted from test wells (para. 32), were constructed, although
they were not included in the project at the time of appraisal.
40.        Education and vocational training.   This component was designed to
improve science, agricultural and technical training in the public school
system, to attract and keep qualified teachers in more remote areas, and to
upgrade selected senior secondary schools. It provided for: (a) construction
of science rooms for junior secondary schools and workshops (for teaching of
carpentry, metalwork, weaving, and other technical subjects), and procurement
of basic science equipment for these facilities and existing science tunits;
(b) construction of living quarters for teachers serving in remote areas; (c)
upgrading the facilities for the teaching of science subjects in senior
secondary schools and primary schools; (d) installation of wells for drinking
water at schools in remote areas; and (e) procurement of t-ansport vehicles
for personnel engaged in supervising the construction of these facilities.
The appraisal targets set for all the above items have been met and exceeded
in the case of a number of items. The actual results achieved, presented in
Part III, Table 4, also included the provision of additional facilities and
improvements not envisaged at appraisal, e.g. woodwork training center and
renovation of existing weaving centers.
41.        Project coordination and management.   To enable project staff to
carry out their functions efficiently, funds under this component were
expected to finance: (a) construction of a project office building in Matale,
and renovation of an existing office building to house the project office in
Puttalam; (b) additional staff, staff quarters, transport vehicles, and office
equipment and supplies for project coordination and management in the Matale,
Puttalam, and the Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation: (c)
technical assistance in the form of local supervisory consultants to assist
project directors and the Ministry in supervising and monitoring progress and
quality of works, preparing reports and processing of reimbursement
applications; and (d) employment of a local research institute or consultants
to evaluate the project. The appraisal targets for all these items have been
met.
42.        Coordination and management of the project had generally been
satisfactory. The four main reasons which had contributed to this were:



11
(a) the project offices were established on time; (b) the project offices had
the same project directors throughout virtually the entire project
implementation period (except for the recent replacement of the project
director in Matale), so that the continuity of management provided had exerted
a positive impact on the implementation of the project; (c) suitably qualified
local supervisory consultants were employed which provided the required
technical expertise lacking among project staff; and (d) effective
coordination and close supervision of the project provided by the Ministry
concerned.
43.        Local consultants were recruited to undertake evaluation studies on
selected project components. These studies were generally not well carried
out mainly because they were not properly focussed and some had drawn
conclusions based on data which were inadequate and seemed unreliable.  Use of
vague and unsubstantiated statements in some of the studies was not helpful
and could have been misleading. Also, data of no direct relevance for
evaluation were included in some of the study reports which therefore tended
to be unnecessarily lengthy. A main contributory factor for the generally
poor quality of the studies as reflected in their reports was the use of
inexperienced and not properly qualified people to carry out the studies.
However, some f.ndings of the studies were useful, particularly on irrigation,
which in identifying poor construction works (also confirmed by supervision
missions) had prompted corrective measures to be carried out. This in turn
had contributed to improved implementation of the project.
Project Results
44.        Project objectives and physical achievement.  Overall, the project
can be considered a success as it has achieved its main objectives, namely to
improve the productivity, incomes and living standards of people in Puttalam
and Matale districts. Indications in support of this are: (a) the actual
results achieved equalled or exceeded the physical targets set at appraisal
for essentially all the project components; and (b) significant increases in
estimated yields and production from paddy areas in rehabilitated schemes and
coconut holdings and new/improved plantings of minor export crops (para. 46),
as well as other direct benefits received by project beneficiaries (Part III,
Table 6).
45.        Project impact.  It would not be feasible to provide a full
assessment of the impact of the project because some data would only be
available in a few years time, some would be unavailable, some not
quantifiable, and some of the available data would not be reliable. However,
there are indications, based on available data, which clearly demonstrate that
the overall impact of the project has been favorable. These are discussed in
the following paragraphs.
46.        The project had rehabilitated about 39,100 ac of irrigation schemes
planted mostly to irrigated paddy, improved 33,460 ac of coconut holdings
(through drainage, flood control and water conservation measures, and
replanting), and replanted/new planted 10,500 ac of minor export crops.
Together with increased fertilizer use and improved cultivation practices, it
has been estimated that annual per ac average yields fer paddy have increased
from about 45 bushels to 65 bushels (2.32 metric ton to 3.35 metric ton/ha),
and for coconut holdings from 2,200 nuts to 3,100 nuts, or annual increments
of about 37,200 metric tons of paddy and 28 million coconuts (35 million at



12
full development). The annual incremental production of the main minor export
crops at full development would amount to an estimated 1,F40 metric tons of
pepper, 1,100 metric tons of coffee, and 600 metric tons of cocoa.
47.        Project objectives of alleviating the overall living conditions of
the rural people and their work skills by improving the roads network, hcalth
services, rural electrification, drinking water supply, and educational
facilities were substantially achieved. Although not quantified, expansion of
the rural roads have clearly benefitted the rural communities by improving
access to markets and non-farm employment opportunities, facilitating the
movement of labor and farm inputs, and improving the delivery of other rural
services. Bringing electricity to villages which had none before not only
improved the well-being of households but also stimulated the expansion of
small rural industries and improved their operations. Access to better
quality education and medical services improved the health and skill
performance of the people. Some diversification of the agricultural
production base and income was also promoted by the minor export crops
component and to a lesser extent by the fisheries and livestock components.
48.        Economic rate of return.   At appraisal, economic rates of return
(ERR) for the irrigation, coconut, minor export crops, sericulture, and
forestry components were estimated, but no ERRs were estimated for the
education and health components and other social and economic infrastructure
items since many of their benefits and impact could not be determined and
quantified. Estimating an ERR for the project as a whole would therefore not
be feasible. However, rough estimates (because of the deficiency of data on
benefits and costs relevant to some of the components)indicate that ERR would
be above the opportunity cost of capital in Sri Lanka. It should, however, be
borne in mind that the recalculated ERRs are still rough estimates. The
actual contributions to yields, production and income increases for certain
crops would not be known until they reach maturity and attain full development
production levels.
Project Sustainability
49.        As mentioned earlier, the project was extended by four years in
order to: (a) achieve the physical targets set during appraisal, (b)
accommodate the slower than anticipated pace of project implementation due to
the worsening security situation and shortage of local counterpart funds
resulting from government budgetary constraints, and (c) maximize utilization
of the IDA Credit tparas. 13-1.4). The budgetary constraints, which show no
sign of getting any better, can adversely affect the O&M of certain project
irvestments and therefore their sustainability.  Of particular concern are the
significant shortfalls in O&M funds allocated in recent years for project
roads and irrigation schemes. With respect to the latter, GOSL's recent
decision to transfer the responsibility for O&M of irrigation schemes to
farwer organizations should improve the situation and result in improved O&M.
50.        Although detailed data are not available, it is reported that
following cessation of subsidies under the minor export crops and coconut
components for construction of drains and terraces (to prevent water-logging,
conserve water and minimize soil erosion), farmers do not provide sufficient



13
resources for their proper maintenance and upkeep. On the positive side,
however, they have increasingly resorted to use of improved inputs, planting
materials and cultivation practices.
51.        The average recovery rate of loans (about 85Z) provided under the
agricultural credit component is satisf&ctory. This rate of recovery,
together with improved procedures to raise the recovery rates, indicates that
the component appears sustainable.
Bank Performance
52.        The Bank's involvement has been quite intensive throughout the
project cycle. An IDA mission visited Sri Lanka in August 1979 to assist GOSL
in preparing the project. GOSL (concerned line agencies) prepared reports on
various components proposed for inclusion in the project which were presented
to an IDA mission when it visited Sri Lanka in November 1979 to appraise the
project.   However, the reports did not provide an adequate basis for
appraisal of the project as many of them lacked the required data. These data
were subsequently provided to the mission following its return to Washington
and the appraisal was completed in June 1980. In hindsight, it seems that the
timing of the appraisal mission was premature and project design could have
improved had more time been available for preparation.
53.        A total of fifteen supervision missions were fielded over a nine
year period. Although most of these missions were multipurpose, supervising
also other projects, they were all considered beneficial to the project. The
project officials, in particular, indicated that the missions helped them
identify and correct deficiencies in design and layout of project facilities
and in many aspects of project implementation.
54.        Supervision missions concentrated on monitoring physical
achievements against appraisal targets and identifying and recommending
corrective measures especially for design, engineering, and civil works
aspects of project facilities, including quality of construction and
maintenance works. On the other hand, the absence of agriculturists in many
of the missions resulted in less-than-desired emphasis on technical aspects
(agronomic and cultivation practices) implemented under the agriculture and
related components. This situation can also be applied to the social
infrastructure components (health and education).
55.        The main lessons learned from the implementation of the project
are: (a) supervision would have been easier if the project did not include
such a wide and diverse range of subprojects; (b) in view of the involvement
of a multitude of ministries and line agencies in project implementation, the
project design should have focussed more clearly on the project's or ,dnization
and management; (c) project period should have been longer than envisaged
given the inevitable delays in implementation when such a large number of line
agencies are involved and in view of the shortage of local counterpart funds;
(d) greater attention should have been paid to ensure sustainable O&M of
project facilities after completion of the project; (e) the need for greater
beneficiaries' participation in rehabilitation of irrigation schemes; and
(f) more emphasis should be given to the implementation of water management
programs aimed at more efficient and effective water utilization, including
the formation of water user groups for this purpose.



14
Borrower Performance and Project Relationship
56.        The budgetary restrictions of the borrower (GOSL) which resulted in
shortages of local counterpart funds contributed to the delays in project
implementation. Although coordination of project activities among the line
agencies proceeded without any major problem, the overlapping, and in some
cases, not clearly defined responsibilities of some of the agencies also
delayed and added to the cost of project implementation. Much of the data
required for ex-post evaluation of the project, especially its benefits and
impact, were not collected and assessed by the project offices. Another
problem was the lack of a well-planned training program for project staff.
Except for these setbacks, the borrower generally performed well throughout
the entire project cycle. The two district governments gave the project their
full commitment and support. Competent project directors were recruited and
retained throughout virtually the entire project period. All the concerned
ministries and line agencies as well as the project officers collaborated
fully with the Bank's missions during the project preparation and appraisal
stages, and were supportive to the supervision missions and receptive to
suggestions for improvements. The borrower complied with all the agreed
covenants (although audited accounts had been received by the Bank with some
delay).
57.        Bank relationship with the government agencies at all levels,
including the two project offices which were responsible for the overall
implementation of the project, has been good and effective.
Consulting Services
58.        Local supervisory consultants were employed and retained throughout
the entire project period to assist the two project offices in their
implementation of the project except rehabilitation of the major irrigation
schemes (para. 59). The consultants were used mainly to: (a) prepare/review
plars and designs for civil works to ensure that they were in compliance with
agreed specifications and guidelines; (b) check all completed works to
determine the quality and quantity of work; (c) inspect field works;
(d) notify the project offices regarding compliance of agency-certified works
with agreed criteria, specifications and guidelines; and (e) assist in
preparing reimbursement applications, budgets, progress reports and work
programs, and procurement of project goods. These services, which were
generally performed well, could not have been carried out by project staff
since they lacked the required technical expertise. The consuA.ant services
were therefore an essential input which enabled the project offices to carry
out their implementation responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
59.        Other local consultants were employed to assist the ID in planning,
designing, and costing of rehabilitation works for major irrigation schemes,
including preparing tender documents, evaluating bids, and supervising
construction works. The consultants were employed only for the first few
years of the project period (up to 1986) when the ID lacked the required
expertise. Their services, which were generally performed well and completed
as scheduled, provided a good start to the rehabilitation of the major
irrigation schemes. The consultants also included an agricultural extension



15
specialist and a rural sociologist to advise on the implementation of crop
development programs following completion of the rehabilitation works.
Proiect Documentation and Data
60.        The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) explained the overall concept and
strategy of the project and, along with the project preparation reports,
provided detailed guidelines for project implementation. The SAR also
provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower to monitor the
progress of the project against the targets set.   However, the four
successive one-year extensions of the project period and the significant
depreciation of the Sri Lanka Rupee reduced the usefulness of the SAR as a
yardstick to measure the actual performance achieved in financial terms.
61.        Despite the fact that the project offices maintained project
implementation records in a satisfactorv manner, much data relevant to the
preparation of the PCR were not readily available, especially regarding the
benefits of the project. This was mainly due to the fact that data were not
collected and processed for ex-post evaluation purposes, but rather for short-
term monitoring of the project results against targets.



17
IPRWbCT CO4LET.1N AEPO!R f - PART
K WT5FEllPFI I yE
*rfir  part  of the  Project Completion Report is conmosed  on  the
9uidelino  spelt  out in stoft Appraisal Report.  Port I of  th#
report  provides * descriptive   analysis of the  project  schieve-
ments which i, supplemented by the statistical intormation provid-
ed in part llt. This pert will restrict to views of the borrower.
The  project under review is the second Rural Levelopment. Project
of its kind, implomented in Sri Lanka. lne project tuymencod with
softe  caution but, attar being involved in the  implementation  of
District  Rural Dsv.lopment Prograrnier over a period of  12 years
borrower's  perspective is naturally changed.  l'he review in  this
part reflecto such changes and experl*ncet.
1.I.Part III of  he ,
'his is largely a statistical summary of a whole range of  project
a6tivities undertaken over a S-year period.  'thls part provides  a
comprehensive description ot tne project. The borrower, in  gener-
al,  is  satisfied with adequacy and accuracy of  the  information
providQd.  We, however, tel it would have  been more beneficial  it
a  columln  is added to  'l'able I to indicate the  total  costs  and
actual expenditure of the other Benk involved projects Implemented
in the country.
2. Part I of the PCtt
This section has adequately dealt witht object aveo, design, organi-
zation,   implementation,  achievements  of  sut-components   etc.
Whilst agreeing with the anelysis, it is necessary to focus atten-
tion  to certain areas where the borrower's  perspective   differs
fron that ot the Bank.
2.1 Deeign   --  It  ie  usetul  to   make   come   comparisons
with dooigns  of other RurJal Levelopment Projects implemented, This
project lays emphasis on intrastructure development and follows a
blue  print  approach which provides little opportunities  tor  the
project  management  to accormocate feasible,  timely  needed  new
proposals. lne subsequent Rural Development Projects leave great-



18
or flexibility for the Project Manacement process planning.
A rural developmerit approach with a high degree of decentralize-
tion  and involvement of many agencies was new in tho  country  In'
early  lSbOe.  It was, therefore, necessary to maintain  a  strict
tieneaicia) disciplIJn and strict specific targets In the project.
1'he blue print approach edopted In this project is, accordingly,
Past tbd.
;.2. Organzzataoia   -     I ln the  dz.cusson  Or sub-components,
the bank has observed that participation in implementation, mainte-
nance and operation io lacking. ln, borrower agrees with this but
is of view that t}liS was not seen at the desigli stage.
The bank analysis takes a defenisive attitude towards the use of
n.ultiplicity  of existing ageixcies In the project  l,riplementatlon,
GOS.L *ecs ttiat this approacth is intentional rather than acciden-
tel. Rural Development is already a complex issue. hence, it has
to be attacked with the use ot multiple agencies in the form of en
integrated package.  The approach could otherwise have the  danger
of taking a single sector approach. Purth.er, the organizatlonal
*xperirice  under the project towards decentralization process  In
the country should not be forgotten.
2,3   Proect lmplonientat.oX -- The concept of miulti-sectoral Rural
IDevelopment  was  new  in Sri Loaka at  the  beginning  ot  19Os.
Skileod man-power shortage at the district level seriously attect-
ed the overall project implemeritataon, To overcome this difficul-
ty, plarining and etipervisory consultantg to both districts were
appointod. No serious budgetary constraints were experienced at
the early phase ot the project. lne borrower agrees that the
worserting s*ccLity situation end budgetary problems hampered 'the
implementation,   towards  the  tail-end  of  the  project.    The
borrower's view is that the main reason for delay in implementa-
tion was lack of capocity of line agencies. The understanding ot
the project concept was very little. ?Ine Govern,'ient took measures
to st-rengthen both planning and iniplementation capacity of such



19
agencies through their involvenwrit in tthe project. Tne results of
such nteasures are obvious in ZIoale III where actual  disbursements
were rising over time.
2.4. Sub-co.vonents  of tho oroect  --  Part I of  this  report
deals with targets and achieverrieiits of each sub-component of.
the  pr oject.   It also h ghligtits  weaknesses,  issues  and
difficulties faced during the implemI entation.
Security problenms, lack of uiiderstanding amoong line egenries, lacy.
of  cooperation, capacity, dato and coordination,  budgetary  con-
strainto and lack ot experience, resulted in delay3 anc1  deficien-
cies in the implementat.ion ot some sub-components.  LacK of  expe-
rience  prevonted  line agencies fr'on moaking  experiments  in  ap-
proaches.  Many  other Rural Development Projects  In  the  island
today take initiatives, new measures to til l gaps' in the implemen-
tation prograrrwee of the project.  T'here are instances the  project
office  hafs played the role of an implementing agency where-  ever
an implementing agency is weak or absent.
Lack of flexibility  in the project design also barred the  project
monagernent  to  deviate  from the original  project  f ramie.   Line
agencies did not have experience in working in a coordinated
manner  at  the  district level.  The  Kural  Development.  Project
expooed  them to a new approach.  Inadequate supervision,  mainte-
nonce  and  nor, involvement of beneficiarie5 to  some  extent  are
connequences of lack of experience.
The project provided an opportullity for the line agencies to work
In coordination  towards a new approach to Rural Development. 'rThe
present  docentrelized  process has been  influenced  by  multiple
agency  rural  developmrerit. approach.  For  instance  atternpts  are
being  made  to create a unified extension service  at  divisional
level.   sub-components such as MKf  cannot be expected to be  very
dynamic as their programtnes are designied to cater to a neglected,
non-productave, non-comrlnercial sector.  But, as part I  identifies
that  component has broughit inunedlate benefits  to  small-holders.



20
1he villagers have been benefited through electrztication, It  is,
however, always questionable whether charnges in production process
hiave taken place as a result.' Education and vocational training
progranries provided training tacflities to many unemplo;ed in  the
projoct area. but success largely depends on actual tollow-up of
such training.  Project haz not paid much attention to this aspect
but  the  lasson we could learn trouii ttie project may  be  that  in
desigring educatiorn auid vocational training packages, th* provi-
sion of tollow-up facilities should be seriously thought of.
3. Project  .ustainabilitv   --  Sustelnebility  of  projects  has  -
always beon a probleme in thie country. l'he implementing agencies
of projects have the belief that the projects are of a temporary
nature and, theretore, do not address their minds to the question
ot sustainability.  Tnio results in non-preparation of a mainte-
nance  and  operation prograrrmme.  This is aggravated  by  lack  of
available  funds  for  maintenance.  1Tne  borrower  tS,  however,
concerned that assets created under the project should be main-
tained by respective line agencies. Many times the attention of
ouch authorities has been drown.
At  a  workshop arranged recently in the Project Office of  Matale
the  importance of continuation ot maintenance arid  eustainability
wa- discussed.   Also the Govertnnent seekS incorporating  a  pro-
gramme and a budget for matntenance as a component of a project.
It is correct that adequate arrangernents and budgets are not made
for project sustainabillty, but it does not mean that the borrower
is not conoerned about the zustainability.
4. Bank Performance -- The role played by the benk in supervi-
sion and review of the project was supplementary to the borrower's
role.   The frequent visits and reviews made by the Bank kept  the
project management as well as line agencies vigilant. T'hts result-
ed  in  implementing agencies taking  necessary  timely  follow-up
action*.  The question can be asked as to whether Bank's  involve-
n,ent and also the composition of review nmissions is adequate.   In
many other ruiral developmerit projects operated in bri Lanka, the



21
donor is involved more trequently.  'Thie helps the project manage-
fternt  to fill gaps in their proceoures arid capacity.  but, on  the
other hand it is criticized a5 too close and unneceszary. In that
sense the Bank involveniest was adequate and relevanit but the
coniposition of review nission has always shown heavy bias towards
the  monagement and civil works.
5. Lessont  learnt  --  1'he methodical supervision adopted by  the
Bank  is an important, tinely intervention tor any projuct.  'Aide
Memoir of the supervision mission was a useful iriplernentation
guide for projects. l'he fis6ion's visits were useful but should
have boon longer. Review Mission could at least have an institu-
tional expert.
6. borrower's oxperience  --  lhe Project designs blue print.  It
involves many coriponerzts ard irriplementing agencies.  This type  of
rural  development  projects were new in Sri  Lanka.   T'here  were
budgetary  problems.  Security situation was not conducive.   tlany
factor s  were  beyond  the control  of  project  management.   But
project  management was able to bring about  coordination;  retain
the  quality;  achieve most ot the physical  targets.   borrower's
ability to face new approaches wati clear in this project.
During the projoct p'riod facilities, training etc. were provided
to Irnplementing agencies. Attitudes and capacity of lIine agencies
wero influenced to a great extent.  Project office played the role
of a good facilitator.
Although  Borrower had to encounter many issues and  difficulties,
as a whole the project was a success.
7. Lessons Learnit from Borrower's Experience -
(a)  T'he capacity of line agencies should be assessed             before
allocationi of tunds.
(b)  Tho  responsibility  of  line  agencies  should  be  clearly
demaroated.
(c) Clear auad conmprehensive operation and maintenance prograrnmie
should be prepared 'within the project. period' and agreement



22
has to be lade with local authorities for this.
(%I) More ermphasis should be given for peoples participation
in planning anid impIeniontat ion.
(e)  rsne implenientotaion period should be longer than onvioaged
to avoid delays especially during the tirst ten years of the
present period.
(t) borrower should have right to utilize tully IUA credit
ta I I it.v.
8. Ettectiveness of the relationship between bank and borrower
--   During  nine year imnplement-ation period berd  had  maintained
eff-ctive relationship with line agencies, project office and
Ministry of Policy Planning ard lmlplementation.  Discussions  held
at eacth level wat frank and open and had always given room for
further improvement, and refinement of work. T'here were no contro-
versial  issues  between bEank and the borrower  during  nine  year
period.   bank  had  played an effective and  supportive  role  in
relation  to  overall supervision and managem  t of  the  project.
T'his contributed to achieve project objectives.
Bank was able to understancl the problems during the project period
from time to time. bott bank and Borrower were able to resolve
such  issues  Jointly.  Borrower on the other hand  was  concernied
about. the relevance and importance ot keeping the targets of the
project, nmaintaining the quality and meeting the requirements  and
conditions stipulated in the agreement. 'I'he eftectiveness of the
relationship between bank and the borrower is well reflected in
project performance.



23
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1079-CE)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits
Credit/                                  Year of
Project Title        Purpose             Approval       Status          Comments
Cr.666-CE       To improve irrigation      1977       Completed   No major problems
Tank           water supply, reduce                                were encountered.
Irrigation     seepage losses, provide
Modernization  inputs, strengthen
agricultural extension
services and water
management in five
major tank schemes.
Cr.819-CE      To diversify about          1978       Completed   Encountered major
Tree Crops     9,500 ha of marginal                                implementation
Diversifica-   tea land into minor                                 problems due to
tion I         export crops, establish                             inadequate
forests for fuelwood                               budgetary
and provision of some                              allocations, and
dairy cows.                                        administrative and
political
opposition.
Cr.891-CE       To raise                   1979        Completed   No major problems
Kurunegala     productivity, employ-                               were encountered.
Rural          ment, incomes and
Development    living standards of
the rural population
in Kurunegala district
through an integrated
package of investments
and institutional
improvements.



24
Credit/                                  Year of
Project Title        Purpose             Approval   Status           Comments
Cr.1363-CE     To increase income          1983     Not          Project allowed to
Third Rural    and living standards                 completed   close as scheduled
Development    of the rural popula-                              on Sept. 30, 1989
tion in Mannar and                               because of continued
Vavuniya districts by                            poor security
improving supply of                              situation in the
agricultural inputs and                          project areas which
services, ensure timely                          had caused
irrigation water                                 suspension of
distribution and enhance                         disbursements
social infrastructure.                           since 1984.
IFAD            To raise income and        1982     On-going    IDA as Executing
Ln.1l1-SR        living standards of                             Agency.  Project
Badulla          the rural population                            implementation has
Rural            in Badulla District by                          generally progressed
Development      improving the supply                            satisfactorily with
of agric. inputs and                            appraisal targets
services and stimu-                             having essentially
lating cultivation of                           been achieved.  How-
minor export crops.                             ever, the
substantial increase
in local currency
equivalent of
the IFAD loan
(resulting from
depreciation of the
Sri Lanka rupee) and
budgetary constraints
had required
extension of the
project implementation
period in order to
utilize fully the
IFAD loan.
IFAD            To increase incomes        1986     On-going    IDA as Executing
Ln.179-SR        and employment of the                           Agency.  Some delay
Kegalle          rural poor in Kegalle                           in project implemen-
Rural           District through                                 tation due to poor
Development      integrated investments                          management and
in agriculture, small                           budgetary constraints.
industries, rural
infrastructure and
social services.



25
Credit/                                  Year of
Project Title        Purpose             Approval    Status           Comments
Cr.1160-CE      Rehabilitation of        1981     Completed      A few remaining
Village          1,200 village                                   project works to be
Irrigation      irrigation schemes,                              implemented in a
Rehabilitation  modernization of 500                             follow-up project.
schemes, and intro-
duction of improved
water management.



26
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date                Date                   Date
Description             Planned              Revised                Actual
Identification                                                     Nov. 1, 1979
(Project Brief)
Preparation a/            Nov. 1979                                 Nov. 26, 1979
Appraisal                  Nov. 1979                                Nov. 26, 1979
Credit Negotiations        Oct. 1980                                Oct. 6-10, 1980
Board Approval                                                      Dec. 9, 1980
Credit Signature                                                    Feb. 2, 1981
Credit Effectiveness      May 1980                                  June 2, 1981
Credit Closing             June 30, 1986    June 30, 1990           June 30, 1990
Credit Disbursement
Closing                                                           Oct. 31, 1990
a/ Prepared by GOSL with assistance from IDA missions.



27
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
USS' 000
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate       Actual      Actual as 2 of Estimate
1981                     3,000                  0                   0
1982                     9,000              1,656                 18.4
1983                    15,500              5,920                 38.2
1984                    22,500             10,138                 45.1
1985                    30,000             11,784                 39.3
1986                    33,500             16,414                 49.0
1987                    33,500             19,878                 59.3
1988                    33,500             22,790                 68.0
1989                    33,500             23,618                 70.5
1990                    33,500             24,729                 73.8
1991                    33,500             26,309                 78.5
Date of Final Disbursement: November 9, 1990



28
Table 4: ProJect Implementation
Appraisal Actual at
Key Indicators             Unit  Estimate   Completion        Remarks
1. Agriculture
Coconut Development:
Improvements               ac    10,000    21,271         Increased farmer demand
Underplanting/replanting  ac      7,500    12,193         due to effective exten-
sion work of the Coconut
Cultivation Board (CCB).
Intercropping              ac     1,700        281        Shortfall due to crops
for inter-cropping which
were not familiar to many
farmers.
5-ac CRI substation        No.        1          1        Substation carrying out
applied research.
Office building for CCB   No.         1          1
Staff quarters for CCB    No.         5          5
Vehicles for CCB           No.       24         17
Fruit tree nursery         No.        1          1        Nursery provides plants
to project farmers.
Minor Export Crops:
Replanting/new planting   ac      7,890    10,525         Increased farmer demand
due to profitability of
crops.
20-ac nursery              No.        1          1        Smaller size nursery
established.
Training center            No.        1          1        Training being provided
at center for project
officers and farmers.
Office building            No.        1          1
Staff quarters             No.       11         11
Cardomon experiment        No.        1          1        Station carrying out germ
station                                                  plasm collection, yield
trials, and hybridization.
Cocoa processing plant    No.         1          1
Transport vehicles         No.        7          7



29
Appraisal Actual at
Key Indicators             Unit  Estimate   Completion          Remarks
Sericulture:
Settlement scheme          No.         1                   Scheme for
for 125 settlers                                           sericulture not feasible.
Office building            No.         1          1
Staff quarters             No.         2          2
Vehicles                   No.         1          1
Agricultural Credit:
Short-term/seasonal        No.                24,615       Seasonal crop production
(Rs. million)                        25.15   107.25        inputs, mainly for paddy.
Medium/long-term            No.                3,100       Mainly for tractors,
(Rs. million)                        64.52    74.75        irrigation equipment,
private nurseries,
storage facilities,
transport vehicles and
dairy animals.
Other Ag. Support Services:
Expansion/improvement of
fertilizer stores           No.         8        8
Dunnage of fertilizer
stores                      No.        40       36
Improvement of seed stores  No.         17       17
Pesticide store conversion  No.         40       35
Office building              No.         2        2
Staff quarters               No.         5        5
Transport vehicles           No.        13       13
Livestock Development:
New veterinary clinics       No.         4        4
Upgrading veterinary
clinics                     No.         4        4
Staff quarters               No.         4        4
Cattle handling facilities  No.         50       24
Transport vehicles           No.        10        8
Forestry:
Plantings                     ac    16,500  13,038         Shortfall due to lack of
planting material.
Office building               No.        2        2
Staff quarters               No.        24       21
Nurseries                     No.        3        4
Tractors                      No.        3        3
Transport vehicles           No.        11        6



30
Appraisal Actual at
Key Indicators            Unit  Estimate   Completion         Remarks
Fisheries:
Fishery service center      No.         1       1
Jetties                      No.        3       2
Office building             No.         2       2
Staff quarters              No.         3       3
Beacon lights               No.        12       8
Transport vehicles          No.         7       8
Patrol boat                 No.         1       1
Ice storage room            No.         1       1
Boat lifting crane           No.        1       1
Platform scale              No.         1       1
2. Water Resources
Irrigation and Water
Management:
Rehabilitation of major
irrigation schemes         No.         15       21      The significantly higher
ac     14,344   15,914      number of schemes
Rehabilitation of minor                                  completed were agreed
irrigation schemes         No.        240      360      with IDA during the
ac     15,122   23,167      course of project
implementation.t
Transport vehicles          No.         53       40
Consultant services     man/mth.    1,262    1,395        Included in consultants
for Project Coordination
and Management
(See 5 below)
Groundwater Development:
Investigation core drill
holes                      No.         60        5      Found not useful and
also uneconomic to have
such wells.
Test wells                   No.         60      115      More of these wells were
Office building              No.         1        1       constructed in place of
Transport vehicles          No.          2        2       the drill holes.
Rural Water Supply:
Wells for drinking water    No.        250      250
Rural water supply schemes  No.          -        3
Tubewells                    No.         -      235      Ninety-one converted
from test wells.
Transport vehicles           No.         6        6



31
Appraisal Actual at
Key Indicators            Unit  Estimate   Completion         Remarks
3. Economic Infrastructure
Roadst
Rehabilitation of roads     miles      144      170
Upgrading of smaller roads  miles      175      255
Now roads                   miles        7        7
Bridge                      No.          -        1
Causeway                     No.         -        1
Transport vehicles          No.          9        9
Rural Electrification:
Electrification schemes      No.        10        80
4. Social Infrastructure
Health:
Outpatient units             No.         2         3
Operating theatre            No.         1         1
Clinic (operating)          No.          1         1
Surgical wards (48-bed)     No.          1         1
(24-bed)     No.         -         2
Surgical laboratory         No.          1         1
Maternity wards              No.         -         5
Improved hospitals          No.          -         5
Gramodaya health centers    No.          -         9
Electric supply schemes
for rural hospitals        No.          5         5
Lavatories                   No.         -         3
Renovation of lavatories    No.          -        30
Water tanks                  No.         -         2
Ambulance                    No.         6         6
Other transport vehicles    No.          3         3
Staff quarters              No.         27        27



32
Appraisal Actual at
Key Indicators             Unit  Estimate   Completion          Remarks
Education und Vocational
Training:
Science rooms                No.         49         78
Workshops                     No.         5          5
Teachers' quarters           No.         80        104
Upgrading schools            No.          6          6
Water supply wells            No.        60         18      This was supplemented
by the project's
rural water supply
program.
Transport vehicles           No.          6          7
Agric./home science units   No.          21         21
Tractor driving training
center                      No.          1          1
Carpenter training center   No.           1          1
Sewing centers               No.          5          5
Other staff quarters         No.          -          4
Woodwork training center    No.           -          1
Renovation weaving centers  No.           -          1
Office building              No.          -          2
Classroom building           No.          -          7
5. Project Coordination and
Management
New project office           No.          1          1
Improved project office      No.          1          1
Supervisory consultants   man/mth.    500          695
Other consultants          man/mth.    762         700
Staff quarters               No.          6          8
Transport vehicles           No.          -         12
Other building               No.          -          5
Comments
The physical targets set during appraisal have been essentially met and exceeded
for some project components. This was made possible by the substantially increased
availability of the local currency equivalent of the IDA Credit resulting from
significant depreciation of the Sri Lanka Rupee.



33
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate           Actual
Rs million   US$ million   Rs million  US$ million
Agriculture
Coconut Development            32.54          2.08           37.65       1.43
Minor Export Crops             47.73          3.06           29.90        1.13
Sericulture                     8.09         0.52            2.60        0.10
Agricultural Credit           154.14          9.88          183.16       6.96
Agricultural Inputs            14.90          0.95            9.23       0.35
Livestock Development           7.24          0.46            5.21       0.20
Forestry                       52.23          3.35           58.91       2.24
Fisheries                      13.06          0.84           11.52       0.44
Subtotal                   329.93         21.15          338.18       12.84
Water Resources
Irrigation and Water Dev.   217.00          13.91          252.67        9.60
Groundwater Dev.                8.96          0.57           24.52       0.93
Rural Water Supply             11.37          0.73           12.48       0.47
Subtotal                   237.33         15.21          289.67       11.00
Economic Infrastructure
Roads                          98.31         6.30          133.84        5.08
Rural Electrification          20.82          1.33           61.73       2.34
Subtotal                   119.13          7.64          195.57        7.43
Social Infrastructure
Health                         26.92          1.72          69.21        2.63
Education                      32.26          2.07           53.92       2.05
Subtotal                    59.18          3.79          123.13        4.68
Project Management             34.59         2.22           87.48        3.32
Total Cost                 780.16         50.01        1,034.03       39.27
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Planned       Final
IDA                                         33.50         26.31
GOSL                                        14.41         11.39
Beneficiaries                                2.10          1.57
Total                                     50.01         39.27



34
Table 6: Project Results
Direct Benefits
Indicator          Unit       Appraisal      Estimated at   Estimated at Full
Estimate      Closing Date    Development
Incremental annual
farm employment     man-days       2 million    1.6 million       2.1 million
Increase in annual
- coconut output       nuts       26 million      28 million       35 million
- paddy production  metric tons    26,700           37,200           37,200
- pepper            metric tons       1,000          1,200            1,840
- coffee            metric tons         500            500            1,100
- cocoa             metric tons         450            230              600
Beneficiaries of
- Water supply       families       12,500          15,900
- Electricity
supply            families         1,650           4,800
- facilities and
equipment          schools            290            300
- improved
transport          families            *
- improved health   families             *
* Not quantified.



35
Table 7: Record of Compliance With Major Covenants
Agreement          Description of Covenant            Deadline       Status
Section
3.02(a)     Borrower to establish/maintain Project                 In compliance
Steering Committee and District
Coordination Committees
3.02(b)     Borrower to appoint/maintain Project                   In compliance
Directors
3.02(c)     Borrower to provide technical                          In compliance
assistance for Matale/Putta!am/
Kurunegala and employ consultants
3.04(c)     Borrower to prepare PCR               December 1990   Not applicableY
3.06        Subsidiary agreements between
Borrower and Bank of Ceylon and
between Borrower and Peoples' Bank                    In compliance
4.02        Audit accounts furnished to IDA not                    In complaince,
later than six months after end of                    some delay in
each fiscal year                                       receipt of
accounts
-1 Borrower is preparing Part II of the PCR which is expected to be submitted
to the Bank by the end of May 1991.



36
Table 8.  Use of Bank's Resources
A.  Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
TASK    m-    PMF    PMO    F1       FY62   FY63   FY84   FY84 5    Y6    FYP7    FY6    f FY89   FY0     M91   TOTAL
LSlt            .1   74.7                                                                                       76.8
La"                    94 .    12.8                                                                            107.4
Low                           10.6                                                                             10.6
LOP              .2    1.7    8.4                                                                              10.3
6UN                            7.1   14.0   14.7    9.7    7.4   I1.s   14.0    3.1    9.5    7.8               98.a
PcWI                                                                                                     4.7    4.7
PAD                             .0    .2                            1.1                                         1.3
TOTAL            .2  172.0   38.9   14.2   14.7    9.7    7.4   12.7   14.0    3.1    9.6    7.8    4.7  306.9
B. Missions
Stage of        Month/  No. of  Days in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Project         Year    Persons  Field   Represented 3/   Rating         Probl-em
Txrci                                                        Status 2/       S/
Through
appraisal        11/79      7
Appraisal
through Board
approval         12/80      6
Board approval
through
effectiveness   08/81       2
Supervicion 1/
1st             06/81       1      10      AE                   2        F
2nd             01/82       4       7      AE, AQ(2), CE        1        TM
3rd             09/82       3       5      AE, AG, CE           2        TM
4th             07/83       3      20      AE, AG, CE           I        TM
6th             11/83       1       6      AE
8th              12/84      2       11     AG, CE               2        TM
7th             03/8S       1       6      AG                   2        TM
8th              11/85      2       7      AG, CE               2        T
9th            0/8"        3      10      AE, AG, CE           I        T
lOth            12/8W       2       9      AE, CE               1        F
11th            08/87       2      12      AE, CE               1        F
12th            05/88       2       7      AE, CE               1        FM
13th            05/89       2      14      AE, CE               1        P
14th            12/89       2       8      AE, CE               2        FP
15th            07/90       2      10      CE, AEn              2        FP
LJ AE   Agric. Economist, AG = Agriculturist, CE = Civilfrrrigation Enginoer,
AEn   AgMc. Engnoer.
2/ Key to status: 1= no problem, 2= minor problem, 8= major problom.
W/ Koy to problems: F= Financiol (essontiolly shortage of local counterpart funds),
Tz Technical, I= Msnagorial, and P= Political (security situation).
4/ A short visit was made in November 1983 to review progress in Metol. District,
one of the two project districts.



