Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE  CBOPY
Rlt N. P-2902-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 18, 1980
This de0emet hsu a resite distibpnd m  amy be used by reipints oyse i erforman  of
thir .MlW dual. lb Cotmts -Y no othrwse be disolsed wihot Wod &ak aut.rmtlo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 15.6 1/
Rs 1             = US$0.064
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,103
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                  =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 bushel (bu) of paddy       =   45 lb
1 mile (mi)                  =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq. mi)       =   640 ac (259 ha)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DCC       -    District Coordination Committee
GA        -    Government Agent
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
D         -    Million
MT        -    Metric ton
MPI       -    Ministry of Plan Implementation
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PSC       -    Project Steering Committee
RDD       -    Rural Development Department, MPI
GLOSSARY
chena          -    slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district       -    the principal administrative unit in the country:
there are 24 districts in Sri Lanka.
paddy          -    unhusked rice
tank           -    reservoir for local rainwater storage
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   At the time of appraisal.  The present exchange rate is:  US$1 = Rs 17.66
(October 23, 1980).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                   Special Drawing Rights 25.6 M (US$33.5 M
equivalent at the time of negotiations).
Terms:                    Standard.
Project Description:      The project aims to assist in developing the districts
of Matale and Puttalam by raising productivity, employ-
ment, incomes and living standards. The project would:
(i) improve the provision of inputs and services
required for the directly productive sectors; (ii)
increase plantings of coconut and minor export crops;
(iii) rehabilitate and improve economic infrastructure;
and (iv) improve social infrastructure. The project
would benefit about 130,000 farm families, about two-
thirds of these families being in the poverty target
groups. The project design closely follows the model
developed for the Kurunegala Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 891). The project suffers from inherent
risks associated with such a multi-component project
and faces difficulties associated with actions in
politically sensitive and institutionally demanding
areas. However, such risks are reduced by the success-
ful experience with decentralized system in the above-
mentioned Kurunegala project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
US$ Million Equivalent
Component                       Local  Foreign  Total
A. Directly Productive
Components
Irrigation and Water
Management                 5.46    2.85    8.31
Agriculture Credit           2.85    3.06    5.91
Minor Export Crop
Development                1.33    0.50    1.83
Coconut Development          0.91    0.34    1.25
Forestry                     1.69    0.31    2.00
Fisheries                    0.31    0.19    0.50
Agriculture Inputs           0.31    0.26    0.57
Seri-culture                 0.26    0.05    0.31
Livestock                    0.20    0.08    0.28
Groundwater
Investigation              0.16    0.18    0.34
Subtotal              13.48    7.82   21.30
B. Economic and Social Infrastructure
Rural Roads                  2.27    1.50    3.77
Rural Water Supply           0.19    0.25    0.44
Rural Electrification        0.53    0.27    0.80
Health                       0.53    0.50    1.03
Education                    0.78    0.46    1.24
Subtotal               4.30    2.98    7.28
C. Project Coordination
and Investigations         1.10    0.23    1.33
Base Cost              18.88   11.03   29.91
D. Contingencies
Physical                     1.49    0.80    2.29
Price                       12.63    5.18   17.81
Subtotal              14.12    5.98   20.10
TOTAL COST                  33.00   17.01   50.01
1/   Includes taxes and import duties (US$1.5 million equivalent)



- 1Il1 -
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                            16.49   17.01   33.50
Government                     14.41      -     14.41
People's Bank and
Bank of Ceylon                1.34     -       1.34
Beneficiaries                   0.76      -      0.76
Total                      33.00   17.01   50.01
Estimated
Disbursement:                                US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY      1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual        3.0    6.0    6.5    7.0    7.5    3.5
Cumulative   3.0    9.0   15.5   22.5   30.0   33.5
Rate of Return:            17%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 No. 2942-CE, dated October 31, 1980






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
Special Drawing Rights 25.6 M (US$33.5 M equivalent at the time of negotia-
tions) on standard terms to help finance a Second Rural Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, "Sri Lanka:  Key Development
Issues in the 1980s" (Report No. 2955-CE, May 20, 1980) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 27, 1980. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy is
experiencing sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977, and the development push associated with it.
Until 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and
potential. Although GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the
average for low income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77
period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding
even these modest gains; as a consequence, per capita gross national income
rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in
economic growth in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of fac-
tors, including inadequate investment, poor management of the economy, and
a policy environment unconducive to growth and investment, which were com-
pounded by bad weather and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and
petroleum.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still the
mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate incen-
tives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, introduced
in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertainties
surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highly protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.



-2-
6.        The low growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or some 18% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been ade7uFte, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.         Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which provided the Government
with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These surpluses began to
disappear in the late 1960s as government policies discriminated against these
crops and the terms of trade deteriorated. With growth in other productive
sectors in the economy also decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary
resources available for social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues
and rapid inflation. As a consequence, expenditures on social services other
than the food subsidy began to decline as a proportion of total current
expenditures and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in health and educa-
tion. In sum, the economy was no longer generating the resources needed to
sustain a large program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the very size of
those programs reduced the scope for policy makers to shift resources to
development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The



- 3 -
new Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resus-
citation of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capa-
city utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in
foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation
with the IMF. Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource
allocation and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more
realistic relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF
standby arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979 the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms have been introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/ Between 1977 and 1979
the rupee appreciated by about 5% against the dollar; however, it
began depreciating in early 1980 and exceeded Rs 17 per US dollar
by September 1980.
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime has been
liberalized. With the exception of petroleum products, public sector
import monopolies have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports
has been abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff
structure was revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply. However,
inflation eroded these rates, and in 1980 further upward adjustments
were made.
Price Controls: These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer, and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turn-
over Tax rates were also substantially lowered and rationalized to be
consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially confined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the
Government introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for
families with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace spe-
cific subsidies and food rationing, and to target benefits to
the poorest. This was accompanied by a move to full cost pricing
for rice and flour. Initially about seven million persons were
issued with food and kerosene stamps. To help offset the adverse
impact of these changes on real incomes, public sector wages have
been adjusted upwards on three occasions, and in February 1978
an income supplement was introduced at Rs 50 per month to benefit
the poorest households in which one or more persons had no gainful
employment. (This supplement was eliminated in 1980.) Public
corporations were asked to pass on cost increases, except in the
cases of fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, where
price increases were initially deferred to cushion +h, impact on
consumers. The Government has subsequently eliminated the subsidy
on petroleum products and made sizable adjustments in bus fares
and electricity prices. The burden of subsidies and transfers
has, as a consequence, fallen from around 9% of GDP in 1978 to
around 5% in 1980. These changes, taken together with higher aid
receipts, have permitted a sizable increase in capital expendi-
tures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of
personal and company taxation has been lowered. However, taxes on
slowly growing treecrop exports account for over 40% of total
revenues; as a result, the overall elasticity of revenues to eco-
nomic growth and domestic inflation remains low.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for
rice was increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices,
incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. Fresh
coconut prices have also been increased by 30% and the export duty
on coconut products has been appropriately adjusted. While the uni-
fication of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against
tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set at a level which
effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to the Government. As
tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by a lowering of taxes on
tea. Further adjustments in both the structure and level of tea
taxation will be needed to maintain and improve incentives. Simi-
larly, the support price for paddy will need to be increased to
maintain strong producer incentives.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of GDP in 1977 to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, as government
departments responded to an improved budgetary resource position by embarking
on long overdue replacement investments and new projects that had been shelved
earlier for lack of resources. The Government has also embarked on four major
new programs which are to be the lead projects in a five-year rolling public



investment program. These are: (i) Accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program, by far the largest multi-purpose river basin
development program ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free
trade zone north of Colombo under a newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic
Commission which has established the first of several Investment Promotion
Zones near Colombo's international airport and has signed agreements with some
54 foreign investors involving US$60 million of foreign investment by mid-1980;
(iii) a massive housing and urban renewal program with its main focus on the
Colombo metropolitan region; and (iv) the construction of a new capital
complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
13.        These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 26 billion,
or 42% of the projected Rs 63 billion public investment program over the
1980-84 period. The Government's tentative macro-economic scenario envisages
public investment taking one-half of total investment which is expected to
average an ambitious 29% of GNP in 1980-84, as against 16% in the early 1970s.
To enable this increase to materialize, gross national savings are expected
to average a high 16.5% of GNP, and net external capital inflows, nearly 13%.
This implies a substantial increase in external capital inflows which averaged
2.3% of GDP in the 1970-76 period. Official development assistance is expec-
ted to finance 67% of public investment. Experience through 1980 (paras
17-19) has shown that these financing targets may be over optimistic, and that
meeting them could imply excessive amounts of expansionary domestic finance
and foreign commercial borrowings. The Government is aware of this and is
currently reviewing the public investment program with a view to reducing the
level and capital intensity of investment.
14.        The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
15.        The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in public investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth in 1978 and 1979 averaged an impressive 7.3% per annum. This growth
was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the most dynamic sectors
being construction; mining and quarrying; electricity, gas and water; trans-
port; and manufacturing. The only major exception has been the tree crop
sector.  This impressive performance is due to a number of factors including
the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal of
price controls. Although there is little data available on employment, Central
Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped from 18% of the labor force
to 15% between 1977 and 1979.
16.        Investment has risen to record levels since 1977, rising from 14%
of GDP in 1977 to 20% in 1978 and 25% in 1979.  A further increase to almost



-6-
29% of GDP is projected for 1980. This has been reflected in the more than
six-fold increase in capital goods imports from US$83 million in 1977 to a
projected US$530 million in 1980. Much of the investment in 1978 and 1979
represented pent-up demand for replacement equipment in industry and trans-
port. Investment would now, however, appear to be shifting towards instal-
lation of new productive capacity. The public investment program, especially
the lead projects, have begun to gather momentum, and private investment
approvals in 1978 and 1979 reached record levels. Those involving foreign
collaboration totalled US$240 million; of these, over one-half were in the new
free-trade zone.
17.       The rapid rise in investment has not, however, been accompanied by a
concomitant rise in the national savings effort. Gross national savings have
declined steadily from 15.8% of GDP in 1978 to a projected 10.5% of GDP in
1980, while the use of foreign savings has increased from 4.6% of GDP in 1978
to 20.1% in 1980. The declining domestic savings effort is reflected most
clearly in the budget. Although the Government has succeeded in containing
the costly consumer subsidy and transfer programs, which has led to their
falling as a percent of GDP (para 11), relatively inelastic revenues combined
with steadily rising other recurrent expenditures and declining terms of trade
have resulted in practically no public savings over the 1978-1980 period. As
a result, the Government has financed its rapidly rising capital expenditures
through foreign aid, and by increasing its level of domestic borrowings.
initially the Government was able to meet its domestic financing requirements
through non-expansionary borrowings from captive financial institutions, which
had been able to mobilize increased private savings under the interest rate
reform. However, resources mobilized through these channels have not grown
as rapidly as the budgetary deficit, and the Government has been forced to
increasingly undertake expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank. Between
1978 and 1979, these rose from 0.4% to 1.2% of GDP; a further sharp rise to
over 4% of GDP is projected for 1980.
18.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy-induced price increases
and related wage increases, the removal of price controls, and the build-up of
external assets contributed significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978
and 1979. However, they were moderated in 1978 and 1979 by bumper paddy har-
vests, increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased availability
of imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from imports and in
domestic distribution. Thus, annual inflation, as measured by the official
Colombo consumer price index, averaged 11% in 1978 and 1979. However, the
growth in money supply expansion, on account of the sustained build-up of
gross external assets and the rapid expansion in domestic credit continued,
and by late 1979 inflation had begun to accelerate; between June 1979 and June
1980, the inflation rate rose to 30%. The Central Bank estimates that over
half of the inflation in January-June 1980 has been due to policy-induced
price changes. However, most of those adjustments were made early in the
year, indicating that the underlying rate of inflation is now increasing and
that the economy is overheating. The overheating has been felt particularly
severely in the construction industry, where average costs rose by over 35%
annually between 1977 and 1979.



-7 -
19.       The rapid growth of the economy since 1977 has also been reflected
in the balance of payments. As a result of the import liberalization, the
acceleration in economic growth in the domestic economy, and the decline in
the terms of trade, imports grew at over 42% annually between 1977 and 1979;
on the other hand, exports (of which sluggishly growing treecrop exports still
account for about 60%) grew at only 15% annually. Tourism receipts and pri-
vate transfers from abroad both grew rapidly, partially offsetting the rapid
growth in the trade deficit; nevertheless, the current account deficit rose
to 4.6% of GDP in 1978 and .11.0% of GDP in 1979. In both years, however,
the current account deficits were more than offset by non-monetary capital
inflows, and Sri Lanka continued to add to its net international reserves,
albeit at a declining rate. At the end of 1979, Sri Lanka's net international
reserves stood at US$258 million; its gross international reserves at US$517
million, equivalent to more than four months of imports of goods and non-
factor services. In 1980, however, the balance of payments has deteriorated
rapidly and net reserves are projected to decline by about US$240 million.
The principal cause of the deterioration has been the sharp increase in the
trade deficit, which is running at more than twice the 1979 level. While
all categories of imports, but particularly capital goods imports, have been
growing rapidly, exports are running only slightly above 1979 levels. Although
the recent price increases will almost double Sri Lanka's petroleum import
bill between 1979 and 1980, the oil import burden is not yet unmanageable.
Gross petroleum imports still account for less than one-fourth of total
imports; net petroleum imports, for less than 30% of non-oil exports. Other
elements of the current account are continuing to perform well; nevertheless,
they will not offset the sharp deterioration of the trade account, and as a
result the current account deficit is expected to more than double to over
US$800 million and rise to over 20% of GDP. Even though net aid disbursements
are expected to increase by over 40% to about US$400 million, together with
net direct foreign investment, they will cover only about 58% of the current
account deficit. With the consequent rapid drawdown in international reserves,
the public sector, especially the public corporations, have begun to make
significant use of commercial financing arrangements.
20.       Developments in 1980 have shown that the Government's development
program, while justifiable in terms of past neglect of productive investment,
is proving over-ambitious in terms of available domestic and concessional
external resources, and in terms of real resources available to the economy.
If Sri Lanka were to attempt to fill the foreign financing gap with commercial
borrowings, its presently relatively comfortable debt service position would
deteriorate rapidly.  As for domestic resources, there is only limited scope
for further reducing subsidy and transfer payments without affecting the
genuinely needy, and little scope for improving upon Sri Lanka's already
very good revenue effort (18% of GDP in 1980). If Sri Lanka attempted to
cover domestic costs through expansionary borrowings from the banking system,
the already high level of inflation would be exacerbated. The only signifi-
cant route open to Government to preclude these developments appears to be to
cut back on the public investment program, including the large amount of
additional investment proposed to take place outside the budget. Aid donors
have responded enthusiastically to the Government's development initiatives - aid
commitments in 1979 totalled US$607 million, and aid indications at the July



- 8 -
1980 sixteenth meeting of the Sri Lanka Aid Group were an even higher US$877
million. Continued high levels of aid will, however, depend upon the Govern-
ment maintaining donor confidence in its economic policies and management.
21.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,086
million at the end of 1979, amounting to about 32% of GDP. However, it is
almost all long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service burden
is relatively low--the debt service ratio in 1979 excluding IMF repurchases
stood at 9.8% of exports of goods and non-factor services, declining from
16.6% in 1977 and 11.5% in 1978. In 1980, the debt service ratio is projected
to decline further to 7%. While this sustained decline is due in part to
improved export earnings, the main cause has been a decline in outstanding
short and medium term borrowings. However, unless the current account deficit
begins to decline in 1981, Sri Lanka will again have to begin undertaking
significant shorter maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between
the current account deficit and likely concessional aid flows. In that case,
the debt service ratio could deteriorate quickly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
22.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 25 credits totalling US$362.0 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 31 projects. About 39% of Bank Group assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development),
18% for power, 16% for transport, and the remainder for development finance
company operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw mate-
rials for industry), water supply, telecommunications, and small and medium
industries. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so far.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of September
30, 1980, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving
line of credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for
on-lending to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were
approved in FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$2.32 million in a
synthetic textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing
plant in FY79. During FY80, IFC approved an increase in equity investment
of about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC and an investment of US$280,000 in an
equipment leasing company.
24.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to
support basic infrastructure are also included. A Mahaweli Ganga Develop-
ment III project, a village tank rehabilitation project, and a construction
industry project are being appraised.



- 9 -
25.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.2% (IBRD, 3.0%; IDA, 7.2%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 8.5% (over 90% IBRD)
of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total exter-
nal debt will increase to 15% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining to
2%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
26.       Approximately four-fifths of Sri Lanka's population lives in rural
areas; the proportion varies from roughly 50% in the Western Province in which
Colombo District is located to about 93% rural in the North Western Province
in which Puttalam and Matale Districts are located. The proportion of Sri
Lanka's population living in rural areas has declined only modestly, around
7 percentage points between 1946 and 1971. This is attributable to low and
narrowing rural-urban income differentials, an island-wide food-subsidy
program, and the spread of education and health services throughout the
country.
27.       The rural sector is dominated by agriculture, with 95% of the
rural population involved directly or indirectly in that activity. About
one-quarter of the gross domestic product, over one-half of total employment,
three-fourths of export earnings and about 40% of Government revenues are
on account of agriculture. Much of the activity in manufacturing, transport
and the services sector also relates to either supply of inputs to agricul-
ture or processing of agricultural produce. Traditional and modern economic
activity exists side by side in the rural sector. Tea, rubber and coconut
production for export, dominated by plantations, have in the past constituted
the modern sector in agriculture. With land reform, the bulk of the area
under rubber and coconut and a third of the area under tea are now cultivated
by smallholders. Paddy is primarily in the traditional sector, though a
number of cultivators have adopted modern practices. Although cash crops
are beginning to be included in slash and burn type chena cultivation, this
remains a subsistence-type activity with farmers using traditional cultivation
practices. Rural industries diminished in importance as a result of competi-
tion from the import of industrial goods in the 1950s and the late 1960s.
Major rural industries today include rice mills (which have replaced more
traditional forms of processing), power looms (which supplement handlooms)
and traditional handicrafts.
Performance and Problems
28.       Agricultural performance over the past two decades has been rather
mixed. There have been modest increases in production and employment and
some progress has been made towards food self-sufficiency. The sector has
not, however, been able to provide a major stimulus to the rest of the economy
or to make any significant dent in the chronic unemployment problem faced by
Sri Lanka.



- 10 -
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
29.       The present Government recognizes the pivotal role of agriculture
in stimulating economic growth and rural development in Sri Lanka. It is
also aware of the constraints imposed on growth by past policies and programs.
The major objectives of the Government's medium-term plans and programs for
agriculture are to (i) increase agricultural employment and incomes; (ii)
achieve self-sufficiency in basic food items; and (iii) expand export
earnings.
30.       The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes
better utilization of the existing potential through institutional and policy
improvements as well as rehabilitation of the production base. Among the
policies and programs being given high priority are: (i) establishment of
appropriate price incentives for producers; (ii) strengthening of agricultural
support services such as research and extension, credit, farm power supply,
and fertilizer distribution; (iii) improved irrigation water management;
(iv) improved management of state controlled lands; (v) stepped up programs
for rehabilitation of plantation crops; and (vi) improvements in living con-
ditions of plantation labor. Through these measures, the Government hopes
to step up the agricultural growth rate to 5% per annum over the next five
years. Given adequate attention to implementation problems, the target is
attainable.
Integrated District Development Programs
31.       To encourage grassroot participation in development and to reduce
implementation problems at the field level, the Government is encouraging
decentralization of planning, monitoring and coordination responsibilities.
Overall national priorities and policy guidelines will be established at the
central level and technical guidance and supervision for field staff will
continue to be directed from the respective headquarters. District Ministers
will oversee and coordinate the planning and implementation of all develop-
mental programs 1/ in their respective districts.
32.       The Government is undertaking a number of integrated district devel-
opment projects through the decentralization program. Under these district
projects, districts have been surveyed and studied, and a development plan
prepared taking into consideration the leading sectors and activities that
need investment support to promote balanced and accelerated growth. These
district projects emphasize low-cost, quick-yielding, labor-intensive invest-
ments aimed at better utilization of the existing potential. The main features
of this approach are: (i) coverage of a wide range of crops and infrastructure
needs; (ii) promotion of balanced interregional development; and (iii)
production increases in the near term.
33.       The IDA assisted Kurunegala Rural Development Project (Cr. 891-CE,
US$20.0) was the first district level rural development project undertaken.
1/   Projects and programs which are of national importance (e.g., the accel-
erated Mahaweli Ganga Development Program) will, however, continue to be
handled at the central level.



- 11 -
The proposed project for Puttalam and Matale districts would be based on
the Kurunegala model. To date, the implementation of the Kurunegala project
has been proceeding quite well, although cost overruns arising from inflation,
particularly in the construction sector, may require a reduction in physical
targets and/or the IDA reimbursement percentage. Civil works construction
for most components (irrigation, roads, rural water supply, health and rural
electrification) is being carried out according to the implementation targets
and specifications established at appraisal. Construction of school buildings
will be carried out by private contractors in the future, since work to date
undertaken by the Parent Teachers' Association has proven to be of poor qual-
ity. The programs for coconut rehabilitation and intercropping are making
good progress despite two consecutive years of drought during the yala season.
Institutional arrangements established under the project have been satisfac-
tory in providing for effective coordination among the twelve project compo-
nents. The only difficulties are with the components for agricultural credit
and for irrigation and water management, where the targets set at appraisal
for providing short-term production loans on 30,000 ac and for rehabilitating
500 minor tanks now appear optimistic. In order to increase the level and
rate of agricultural lending and repayment the two banks providing credit
under the project (i.e, People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon) are reviewing their
manpower capabilities and training programs, with the view to strengthening
the number and quality of staff and making more staff time available for
field visits and other direct contacts with farmers. Also, a consultant to
the Irrigation Department has been provided recently to help in the prepara-
tion of detailed plans, designs and cost estimates for new schemes, especially
for water management facilities. Thus, both of these components under this
ongoing project have been re-evaluated, and improved institutional arrange-
ments have been developed which will be included in the proposed project
(paras 48 and 50).
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
34.       During the last several years, Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has
heavily emphasized agriculture and rural development. Since 1968, a total of
twelve projects with loans and credits of US$168.5 M have been financed in
this sector including: Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M); Drainage and
Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development I (Ln. 653-CE,
US$14.5 M and Cr. 174-CE, US$14.5 M); Dairy Development (Cr. 504-CE, US$9.0 M);
Agricultural Development (Cr. 595-CE, US$25.0 M); Tank Irrigation Moderniza-
tion (Cr. 666-CE, US$5.0 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development II (Cr. 701-CE,
US$19.0 M); Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) (Cr. 818-CE, US$21.0 M); Tree Crop
Diversification (Cr. 819-CE, US$4.5 M); Kurunegala Rural Development Project
referred to above; Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research (Cr. 931-CE,
US$15.5 M); and Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation (Cr. 1010-CE, US$16.0 M).
The first two of these projects have been completed, and project performance
audit reports have been prepared. The audit reports found that both projects
suffered from design inadequacies, in particular overoptimism concerning the
response of beneficiaries to opportunities offered under the projects, but
also from inadequate attention to research and extension services and, in
the case of the Drainage and Reclamation Project, to unusual soil conditions.
As a consequence, the net project benefits have been lower than envisaged
at project appraisal although the estimated revised rates of return remain



- 12 -
satisfactory. Over the course of the last several years, project preparation
activities have been directed towards obtaining a fuller understanding of the
systems and institutions expected to have significant impact on expected proj-
ect results, such as inputs supply, marketing, extension, operations and
maintenance, cultural practices, and pricing. The abovementioned Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Project would strengthen extension and research
in the proposed project area.  The Mahaweli Ganga Development I and Agricultural
Development Projects have been recently completed. The other on-going projects
are progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by several deDartments and
agencies of the Government of Sri Lanka, coordinated by Ltue M4inistry of Plan
Implementation with assistance from IDA missions. The project was appraised
in November/December 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
October 1980. The Borrower's delegation was led by Dr. Wickrema Weerasooria,
Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Sri Lanka - Second Rural Development Project" (Report No. 2942-CE dated
October 31, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the credit are given in Annex III.
36.       The proposed project aims to assist in developing the districts of
Puttalam and Matale by raising productivity, employment, incomes and living
standards. These districts were chosen because of their high percentage of
rural population and low per capita income and because they would receive few
direct benefits from the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program. The main assump-
tion underlying the project approach is that the existing economic and social
infrastructure in Sri Lanka is substantially underutilized and that rapid and
significant improvement in utilization is possible through strengthening of
development-oriented institutional services and complementary investments in
physical infrastructure.
37.       The proposed project emphasizes:  (a) directly productive invest-
ments; (b) local level participation in identification of project investments;
(c) financial, technical and institutional replicability; and (d) labor-inten-
sive, quick-yielding rehabilitation works, rather than new construction.
38.       The proposed project would cover the entire administrative districts
of Puttalam and Matale. Both districts are predominantly rural and agricul-
ture is the mainstay of their economies. Puttalam is located on the West
Central Coast and Matale is located on the northern edge of the highland core
(see Maps IBRD 14949 and 14952); both adjoin Kurunegala district. Population
is estimated at 440,000 and 352,000 for Puttalam and Matale respectively.
The climate in the project area is tropical with minor variations in tempera-
ture but wide variation in rainfall. Out of a total land area of about 1.2 M
acres, over one-third is under permanent cultivation and less than one-third
under chena cultivation. The largest land use category is forests, which are
largely scrub jungle. Coconut and paddy are the two most important crops in



- 13 -
Puttalam, covering 160,000 ac and 46,000 ac respectively. Land use in Matale
is quite varied, with paddy the largest category at 39,000 ac; there are also
large concentrations of coconut, minor export crops, tea and rubber amounting
to over 90,000 ac.
Project Description
39.       Because of the significant position of paddy in both districts'
economies, of coconut in Puttalam and minor export crops in Matale, and the
scope for large production increases in these crops, the principal project
thrust would be to rehabilitate their production bases and to improve support
services essential for increased production. The directly productive compon-
ents would be complemented by investments in transportation, health, educa-
tion, drinking water supply and rural electrification to improve utilization
and effectiveness of existing facilities. These investments in social and
economic infrastructure are designed to improve living standards and to
develop the infrastructure for growth in the long run.
40.       The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Irrigation and Water Management in Both Districts: (i)
rehabilitation of 15 major tanks (with command area of
200,000 ac each or more) and about 240 minor irrigation
schemes amounting to over 28,500 ac of irrigated area;
(ii) introduction of improved water management practices.
(b) Coconut Development in Puttalam: rehabilitation and
improvement of coconut lands through stepped up programs
for replanting/underplanting and intercropping on about
19,200 ac of privately owned land.
(c) Minor Export Crops Development in Matale: upgrading of
stands of cocoa, cardamom, coffee, pepper, clove and
nutmeg through stepped up programs for planting and
replanting on about 7,900 ac of privately owned land.
(d) Agriculture Credit in Both Districts: supporting and
strengthening existing schemes for production credit and
credit for purchases of machinery and equipment, for a
total of about US$5.9 million equivalent.
(e) Agricultural Input Supplies in Both Districts: improvement
of availability of agricultural supplies and services and
their coordination.
(f) Forestry in Both Districts: acceleration of ongoing pro-
gram on about 16,500 ac for (i) reforestation of degraded
and overexploited chena lands; and (ii) afforestation on
steep and high elevation grasslands, degraded tea planta-
tions, and catchment areas of the Mahaweli Ganga.



- 14 -
(g)  Fisheries in Puttalam:  improving landing and shore
facilities at three sites, a fisheries service center, and
provision of navigation lights.
(h) Sericulture in Matale: conversion of a former rubber plan-
tation to sericulture, including a small nucleus estate
and a small settlement scheme on about 400 ac, with 125
settlers.
(i) Livestock in Both Districts: strengthening of animal
disease control and veterinary and insemination services.
(j) Groundwater Exploration in Puttalam: exploration of ground-
water resources and startup exploitation of most promising
areas.
(k) Rural Roads in Both Districts: (i) rehabilitation of
about 145 miles of feeder roads, (ii) construction of 7
miles of new feeder roads, and (iii) upgrading of about
175 miles of cart and foot paths.
(1) Rural Water Supply in Both Districts: installation of
about 250 dugwells in areas with drinking water deficiency.
(m)  Rural Electrification in Both Districts:  electrification
of ten rural areas.
(n) Health in Both Districts: (i) construction of additional
facilities and staff quarters at about 30 sites; (ii)
provision of vehicles and basic equipment; and (iii)
electrification of five outlying hospitals.
(o) Education and Vocational Training in Both Districts: pro-
vision of workshop and science equipment and construction
of buildings and teachers quarters at existing schools.
(p) Project Coordination and Investigations in Both Districts:
(i) provision of vehicles, office equipment, additional
staffing, and construction of office buildings; (ii) tech-
nical assistance in supervision and monitoring; and
(iii) surveys for evaluating the impact of the project.
Organization and Implementation
41.       The project components would be implemented by existing Government
agencies and departments using existing procedures and practices. A total
of 26 implementing agencies in 14 ministries would be involved. All agencies
and departments are generally well experienced in the type of work to be
carried out. With additional staffing, technical assistance, and infrastruc-
ture support, all agencies are expected to be fully capable of implementing
assigned components or subcomponents. Given the large number of agencies
involved in implementation, successful project implementation would depend



- 15 -
upon the capacity for a quick resolution of policy issues as they may arise,
and for close monitoring, supervision and coordination of the work programs
of various agencies. Therefore, the project was designed with three levels
of coordination for project implementation.
42.       A Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be established (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)) at the national level
with the Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation (MPI) as Chairman and the
Director of Regional Development of MPI as member secretary. In addition
to coordinating and trouble-shooting at the national level, the PSC would be
responsible for (i) ensuring consistency of district development schemes with
national policy and procedures; (ii) reviewing quarterly and annual progress
reports; (iii) reviewing and approving annual and five year work programs and
budgets; and (iv) liaising with IDA on project related matters. The PSC would
be serviced by the project cell in Rural Development Department (RDD) and
accounting unit in MPI.
43.       At the district level, a District Coordination Committee (DCC) would
be established (Section 3.02(a) of the draft DCA) comprising district heads of
the key project agencies to discuss and resolve interdepartmental coordination
problems. DCC would be chaired by the respective District Minister, with the
Government Agent (GA), the senior administrative officer for the district, as
Vice Chairman and the Project Director as the member-secretary. DCC would
meet at least bimonthly to (i) coordinate interdepartmental activities;
(ii) monitor progress; (iii) review the annual and five-year work plan and
budget prior to its submittal to the PSC; and (iv) ensure consistency of
project activities to the other district development activities. Project-
related policy issues as well as implementation bottlenecks and coordination
problems which cannot be resolved at the district level will be referred to
the PSC.
44.       A full time Project Director, with experience, qualification, func-
tions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, would be appointed for each
district (Section 3.02(b) of the draft DCA). The Project Director would be
at rank of Additional Government Agent and would coordinate the project
activities, serving under the general supervision of the GA and the District
Minister. The Project Director's responsibilities would include: (i) prepar-
ation of annual and five-year work programs and budgets in collaboration with
the implementing agencies; (ii) release of funds for project expenditures;
(iii) maintenance of consolidated project accounts and assembly of annual
audited accounts of each implementing agency; (iv) preparation of withdrawal
claims from IDA credit account; (v) monthly review of project progress and
preparation of quarterly progress report; (vi) resolution of implementation
bottlenecks and liaison with the DCC; and (vii) assistance to the project cell
in RDD in preparing the project completion report. Each Project Director
would be assisted by an accounting unit and a planning and coordinating unit,
supplemented by supervisory consultants (see para 50 below). The annual
consolidated project accounts and audit reports will be submitted to the
Association within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
45.       Overall project implementation would take five years.  Site surveys
for most buildings under the project are underway, and construction would be



- 16 -
completed by the end of the third year. Plans and designs for all facilities
would be in accordance with specifications and guidelines satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA). This would include criteria
for the selection and design of minor irrigation schemes for rehabilitation,
the plans for the development of the tubewell schemes, the project evaluation
plan, and the siting of the rural wells.
46.       The Project Director, in collaboration with the various implementing
agencies, would annually prepare a detailed work program and update the five
year work plan together with associated budgetary requirements. The program
would be supported by appropriate maps, charts and diagrams and include esti-
mated manpower and material requirements. Following a review by the DCC and
the PSC, the annual and five year work programs would be submitted to IDA not
later than November 15 of each year for comments.
47.       The Irrigation Department would be responsible for the operation
and maintenance (O&M) of the major irrigation schemes down to the distribu-
tary level. Responsibility for O&M of field channels (in major schemes) as
well as the minor irrigation and groundwater schemes would rest with the
benefitting farmers who would be supervised and advised by the Agrarian
Services Department. The maintenance and repairs of the rehabilitated rural
roads would be done by the Highways Department. The carts and footpaths and
drinking water wells would be maintained by the Department of Local Govern-
ment Services in cooperation with local authorities. The Ceylon Electricity
Board would be responsible for O&M of rural electrification schemes. Health
buildings will be maintained by the Buildings Departments of the Ministry of
Local Government. Adequate repair facilities and workshops exist in the
private sector to provide maintenance services for farm equipment to be sold
to farmers under the project. After project completion, incremental recur-
rent expenditures for minor export crop programs and the coconut development
programs would be financed through annual budgetary appropriations to the
Agriculture Department, the Coconut Cultivation Board and the Department of
Minor Export Crops. All facilities, including major irrigation works, roads
and buildings constructed and/or rehabilitated under the project, would be
maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices and adequate staff
and funds would be provided for this purpose.
48.       The Government would ensure that agricultural credit under the proj-
ect would be provided in accordance with rules and procedures satisfactory
to the Association, and, to this end, would enter into subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, with the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon
(Section 3.06 of the draft DCA). The People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon
would make loans to project beneficiaries on the prevailing terms for agri-
cultural credit in Sri Lanka, which range from 9% per annum for cultivation
loans to 14% per annum for tractor and vehicle loans. The Central Bank would
provide 100% refinance for cultivation loans and 70% refinance for loans for
machinery and equipment. Refinancing would be on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the ongoing countrywide programs and would provide a spread to the
lending banks of about 7% for cultivation loans, 5% for tractor and vehicle
loans and 4.5% for all others, with no guarantee against default. It would be
a condition of effectiveness that the Government has entered into subsidiary
agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with the Peoples' Bank and



- 17 -
Bank of Ceylon for the provision of agricultural credit under the proposed
project (Sections 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft DCA). As part of the drive
launched to recover or otherwise settle the large proportion of accounts
overdue, the banks have begun analyzing and classifying their portfolios.
Under the subsidiary agreements, the banks would be required to furnish to
the Government: (i) an inventory of defaulters; (ii) an analysis of the
classification of their portfolios; and (iii) the program of bank action
against willful defaulters.
49.       The average annual rate of inflation as measured on the official
Colombo consumer price index has risen sharply since 1977 to about 11% in
1978 and 1979, and is expected to reach 30% in 1980. The current inflation
is largely a result of policy-induced adjustments in administered prices,
short-term demand-supply imbalance and a steady increase in import prices.
The Sri Lankan authorities are currently actively considering measures to
slow down inflation. Assuming that a determined effort is made to contain
the growth of government expenditures in 1981, inflation should begin to
budgetary deficits and credit expansion, to cause a slowdown in the rate
of inflation by 1981. Subsequently, domestic inflation is expected to come
more closely in line with international inflation.
Technical Assistance
50.       To strengthen the implementation capacity of various project
agencies, the Government would employ consultants having qualifications and
experience and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
The Irrigation Department would employ consultants in water resources (about
49 manyears of senior and 42 manyears of assistant level) to plan and design
much of the irrigation work to be undertaken in the proposed project.  This
would allow the Irrigation Department to focus on quality control and main-
tenance operations. A team of supervisory consultants (about 25 manyears
would be employed by the RDD to assist the RDD project cell and accounting
unit as well as the Project Directors for Puttalam, Matale, and for Kurunegala
to: (i) review plans and designs for civil works to determine compliance with
agreed specifications and guidelines; (ii) inspect completed civil and field
works; (iii) assist in preparing applications for withdrawals from the IDA
Credit Account; (iv) monitor progress and centralize budget control; and (v)
assist in preparing quarterly and annual progress reports, annual and five-
year programs and budgets, and the project completion report. It would be
a condition of effectiveness that these supervisory consultants have been
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section
6.01(c) of the draft DCA). About 12 manmonths of short-term expatriate
specialists would be employed by the Department of Minor Export Crops to
advise on home garden development programs.  About 6 manmonths of short-term
expatriate specialists would be employed by the RDD to advise on the monitor-
ing and evaluation process.
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.       The progress of the project would be monitored through quarterly
reports submitted to the respective Project Director by each implementing
agency. Each department or agency would maintain separate records adequate



- 18 -
to reflect the operations and financial conditions of the part or parts of
the proposed project for which the department or agency is responsible.
Formats for the quarterly and annual input monitoring would be based on those
developed for the Kurunegala Project, and those for annual output monitoring
are now under o'reparation. The quarterly progress reports would be submitted
to the Association within eight weeks of end of each quarter and annual pro-
gress reports would be furnished for review and comment by March 31 of the
following year.
52.       High priority would be given to evaluation of the direct and indi-
rect impact of the project. For overall evaluation, the RDD would contract
with local universities and research institutes for a series of small, in-
depth studies of the development of minor export crops, coconut development,
agriculture credit and irrigation and water management. The Government would
furnish a detailed rl. i for evaluation to the Association by December 31,
1980 for review and comment.
Costs and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at US$50.01 M equivalent.  The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$17.01 M equivalent or about 34%
of total project cost. Cost estimates are based on unit prices adjusted to
January 1980 price levels and include about US$1.5 M equivalent for taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies of 8% of base costs have been included.
Price contingencies have been estimated assuming inflation rates as follows:
(i) equipment and vehicles - 10.5% during 1980, 9% during 1981, 8% during
1982, and 7% during 1983 and thereafter; and (ii) civil works and other local
costs 30% and 21% respectively during 1980, and 15% during 1981, 12% during
1982 and 10% during 1983 and thereafter. The total cost of consultants ser-
vices, mainly local consultants, is estimated at about US$1.7 M equivalent, or
about US$700 per manmonth. The proposed IDA credit of US$33.5 M equivalent
would finance the full foreign exchange costs and about US$16.49 M equivalent
of local costs or about 69% of total project cost net of taxes and duties.
The local cost financing would be in support of the Government's continued
strong efforts to increase public savings by reducing the burden of subsidy
and transfer payments (para 11), despite the drop in tax revenues due to
weak export prices. Subsequent to the elimination of all food subsidies
in early 1980, the Government has increased Business Turnover Tax, raised
sugar and petroleum prices, and increased electricity tariffs. Local cost
financing would also help provide much-needed foreign exchange for balance
of payments support, while the Government adjusts its investment program
(para 20). The cost of that program has increased sharply, in large part
due to deterioration in the terms of trade. Benefitting farmers would pro-
vide US$0.76 M equivalent as contributions to field works for coconut and
minor export crop development and downpayments and installment payments on
private agricultural investments financed through institutional credit.
Participating commercial banks would contribute US$1.34 M equivalent from
their own resources for financing part of the agricultural credit requirements
under the project. The Government would contribute the remaining US$14.41 M
equivalent.



- 19 -
Procurement
54.       Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment, vehicles and spares with an
estimated cif cost of about US$2.5 M equivalent (net of contingencies) would
be procured after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods or the import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Because of the relatively small
quantities under the project and the need for standardization, it would be
impractical and costly to have separate tenders for much of the educational
and medical equipment; accordingly, the project requirements for these items
(cif cost US$0.4 M, net of contingencies) would be procured together with
national requirements following Government's normal procurement procedures.
Due to strong consumer preferences, ICB would also be impractical for pro-
curement of vehicles which are to be purchased by departmental staff under
the existing system whereby the Government makes medium-term loans available
to staff, who in turn repay the loans from travel allowances for official
business; these (total cost: US$0.16 M) would be procured through normal
commercial channels. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each, which cannot be bulked into packages suitable for international tender-
ing or items needed urgently for expeditious project implementation, would
be procured through prudent shopping in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to IDA. The total of all non-ICB equipment purchases would be limited
to an aggregate of US$1.4 M. IDA would review the procurement documentation,
procedures, and processing of all contracts the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more.
55.       Civil Works.  Because most civil works (base cost US$10.5 M) would
be labor-intensive, relatively small, seasonal and scattered over a wide area,
it would not be practical to group them into contracts of suitable size for
ICB. Accordingly, the civil works under the project would mostly be done
through small unit-cost contracts with local labor groups or on force account.
Field development works for coconut lands and minor export crop would be under-
taken by beneficiaries on force account using family and/or hired labor and
inputs purchased through normal commercial channels. Forestry development
and part of the sericulture work would be undertaken by force account or
small unit cost contracts.
56.       Agricultural Credit.  Farm inputs, equipment and vehicles (base
cost US$5.91 M) under the agricultural credit component would be purchased
by sub-borrowers through normal commercial channels. A sufficient number
of local dealerships and agencies are available to ensure competitive prices
and wide ranging choice.
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements would be made for:  (i) 100% of foreign expenditure,
or 100% of local expenditure ex-factory, or 80% of other local expenditure
for equipment, vehicles, and spares; (ii) 100% of the cost of technical
assistance; (iii) 80% of the cost of civil works; (iv) 50% of the financial
assistance by the Government for coconut and minor export crop development
field works; (v) 100% of labor costs in sericulture and forestry field works



- 20 -
components; (vi) 100% of salaries for additional staff for road maintenance
and rehabilitation in 1981, 1982 and 1983 and 50% of such salaries in 1984
and thereafter; (vii) 50% of the disbursements in excess of Sri Lanka Rs 4.6 M
(current annual level in the project area) per calendar year for cultivation
loans by the Peoples' Bank and Bank of Ceylon; and (viii) 80% c6 the amount
disbursed by the Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon for loans for agricul-
tural equipment and vehicles. Disbursement for items (iii)-(viii) would be
made against statements of expenditures. Supporting documentation would not
be submitted for review, but would be retained by the implementation agencies
and available for inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision
missions. The Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for all implementing agencies claiming disbursement under statement
of expenditure to maintain proper accounting records and, where necessary, to
build up their institutional capacity for procurement and internal audit. The
disbursement mechanism for cultivation loans is designed tr provide financing
for those additional activities to be undertaken above tne current level of
activities; the level of activities estimated to be achieved in 1980 would
be established as the base for calculating eligible expenditures. All other
disbursements would be made against full documentation. The Project Director
would be responsible for preparing claims for disbursements from IDA. It is
expected that the disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1986, about
six months after the end of project implementation. Since preliminary works
for establishing the project organization and for initiating project activity
(e.g, construction of buildings and facilities, procurement of vehicles,
establishment of nurseries, site surveys, technical assistance, etc.) is
critical to efficient program implementation, it is proposed that eligible
project expenditures incurred after June 30, 1980 be retroactively financed
up to a total value of US$1.0 M.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
58.       The impact of the project on farm incomes would vary greatly with
farm location, cropping pattern, size and financing arrangements. Incremental
income would increase by 7% to 140%; annual financial returns from directly
productive investment activities range from 17% to 100%.
59.       The Government's budgetary contribution to the project during
the total project life is estimated at Rs 198 M in present value (PV) terms
or equivalent to 47% of total project costs. The balance of Rs 220 M (PV)
or 53% of total project costs would be recovered from beneficiaries through
different means and from Government commercial activities. Taking into account
that about 30% of project investment cost would be directed to improve eco-
nomic and social infrastructural facilities, such level of direct recovery is
satisfactory and higher than for the average rural development project. The
major part of this recovery will be contributed by the forestry component
through the sale of wood (Rs 101 in PV terms). An amount of Rs 50 M (PV) is
expected to be recovered through implicit and/or explicit taxation on exports
of coconut and sericulture. The cost of agricultural credit would be reco-
vered through sub-loan repayments (Rs 61 M in PV terms). However, cost
recovery from irrigation facilities would be very small. Irrigation charges
are collected from major irrigation schemes and, at present water charge
levels, only about 23% of O&M costs of such schemes would be recovered.



- 21 -
Benefitting farmers would contribute labor to the O&M costs of minor irriga-
tion schemes. Under the project, the Government would undertake about 25% of
the earthwork for rehabilitating irrigation schemes through voluntary farm
labor. The low level of recovery on the irrigation works is considered
acceptable in view of the low income base of most farmers who would benefit
from improvements in irrigation facilities (para 64).
Benefits and Justification
60.       The proposed project would assist the Government in raising incomes,
employment and living standards of some 130,000 farm families in Puttalam
and Matale Districts. At full development, annual paddy production would
increase by about 27,000 MT, or by 133% over present levels and about 104%
above the future level expected without the project. Increases in paddy are
expected to be somewhat larger in Matale due to the very low current level of
cropping intensity, a result of the poor condition of the existing irrigation
schemes. Annual coconut production is expected to increase by 26.0 M nuts,
with yields increasing from about 1,500 nuts per acre to 2,300 nuts per acre,
compared to an optimistic yield of 1,800 nuts per acre in the future without
the project.
61.       Successful project implementation would lead to additional exports
of coconut products, minor export crops and silk, leading to incremental
foreign exchange earnings of about US$8.9 M per annum. Import substitution
of rice due to the project would save an additional US$6.6 M per annum.
Allowing for the foreign exchange cost of needed inputs, the project is
expected to generate net annual foreign exchange savings of about
US$13.0 M.
62.       More intensive land use and improved crop husbandry practices under
the project would result in additional annual farm employment of about 2 M
man-days. Increased agricultural production would stimulate substantial new
employment in activities such as marketing, processing, transportation, input
supplies and consumer services. All this would help to relieve the large
unemployment and underemployment situation prevailing in the project area,
particularly during the slack periods of the agricultural cycle.
63.       Economic and social infrastructure financed under the project would
improve transport and health care facilities in remote areas; improve drink-
ing water supplies to some 6,250 rural families in water deficit areas; supply
electrical service to about 1,650 rural households; improve instructional
facilities at about 290 schools; and strengthen vocational education facili-
ties in the districts.
64.       Over two-thirds of the direct project beneficiaries would be small
farmers with operational holdings of 2 ac or less, with present per capita
income levels considerably below the poverty level of about US$75. Improved
land productivity and increased on-farm and off-farm employment under the
project would enable most of these farm families to move above the poverty
level. However, since most of the direct benefits would come from increased
farm productivity, the distribution of benefits would largely follow the exist-
ing land ownership pattern with two-thirds of total beneficiaries receiving
only about one-third of the total benefits.



- 22 -
65.       The economic rate of return is estimated at about 15% for Puttalam
and 18% for Matale, or 17% overall. Excluding the cost of the economic and
social infrastructure, the economic rates of return of the directly productive
components are estimated to be 22% and 24% respectively. The economic rate
of return for components range from 17% for minor irrigation in Puttalam (9%
of total project cost) to 43% for sericulture (1% of total project cost) in
Matale. Sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable under a
variety of adverse assumptions about costs, benefits and timing of realization
of benefits. With a 10% increase in costs and a 20% decrease in paddy yields
and benefits from coconut, sericulture and minor export crops, the overall
economic rate of return is estimated to be about 14%. If full realization of
benefits from increased paddy production is delayed by two years, the overall
economic rate of return is estimated to be about 16%.
Project Risks
66.       The proposed project includes many components and faces the diffi-
culties associated with actions in politically sensitive and institutionally
demanding areas, such as irrigation water management and rural credit disci-
pline. An inherent risk in such a multi-sectoral project concerns the ability
to achieve necessary coordination in implementing the various interrelated
components. These risks are not expected to be significant given the decen-
tralized system of district government, which has been working successfully
in the Kurunegala project.
67.       On the technical side., the risks related to the engineering and
agronomic proposals are considered within the acceptable range. The executing
agencies have experience in carrying out the types of works proposed, while
projected yields, intensities and production techniques have been adequately
tested and are currently observable on progressive farms in neighboring
areas.
68.       Poor quality control of irrigation works has been a common problem
in recent times in Sri Lanka, and has adversely affected the Kurunegala project.
To minimize such risk, planning and supervisory consultants would be employed
to assist the Department of Irrigation and the Project Director. The intro-
duction of improved water management practices is also taking longer to be
adopted than was previously envisioned. To overcome this problem, the project
would provide for strong institutional support for the design and introduction
of improved water management in the two districts; to reflect a more realistic
rate of adoption under the project, full development of improved water manage-
ment practices is estimated to require eight years after completion of project
works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 23 -
70.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness for the IDA Credit would
be: (i) the execution of subsidiary agreements satisfactory to the Associa-
tion between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Peoples'
Bank and the Bank of Ceylon respectively (para 48) and (ii) appointment
of supervisory consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation (para 50).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 18, 1980



- 24-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1.
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                      REFERENCE GROUPs (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S2 KM.)                                                         -  MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              65.6                                   HOST RECENT         LDW INiCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
ACRICULTURAL       25.7                1960  /b    1970 jb ESTIMATE Lb    ASIA 6 PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0        100.0     190.0                197.9                894.8
ENERGY UONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       107.0        13S.0L    109.0                 166.0                842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         9.9        12.5       14.3
UEHAN P)PULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           21.9       25.6                 20.8                 39.1
POPULAIION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        151.0        191.0      218.0               193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0          518.0      556.0               409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.1         41.9       37.6                42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                           54.3         54.5       58.3                55.0                  56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6          3.6        4.1                 3.0                   3.4
POPULATIUN GROWTH KATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.5          2.4        1.7                 2.2                   2.4
URBAN                                4.6          4.3        3.7                 3.9                   4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       36.0         30.0       26.0                37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0           7.0       6.0                 14.6                  7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.5           2.3       1.8                  2.6                  1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        55.3      113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            8.0       41.0                 13.6                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            93.0        103.0      119.0               101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     97.0        108.0       96.0                92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0         47.0       43.0                49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0         13.0        7.0                12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE         7.0         3.0        2.0                 17.9                  5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0           67.0       69.0                50.8                  63.0
INFANT MiORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             63.0         51.0         ..                   ..                 52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         21.0       20.0                30.2                  42.4
URBAN                                 ..         46.0       45.0                66.0                  62.1
RURAL                                  *-        14.0       13.0                 20.0                 29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        64.0       59.0                 17.7                 52.8
URBAN                                  *-        76.0       68.0                71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                  ..        61.0       55.0                   ..                 42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4500.0           ..    6274.0               6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       4150.0       2730.0    2259.0               9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              319.0        331.0      331.0              1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                                  ..       130.0      140.0               502.9
RURAL                                  *-       570.0      600.0             10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        54.0       51.3                   *-                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4/c        5.8
URBAN                                6.3/c        6.3
RURAL                                5.2/c        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.0/C        2.5
URBAN                                2.l/c        2.7 7
RURAL                                2.0oT        2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 7.5/c       9.0
URBAN                               35.9/c       34.5
RURAL                                2.3T7         2.8



- 25 -                                       AIRZEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SRI LNKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICMTED AVE GES
-  MOST RECENT ES
MOST RUCtNT        LOW INCG(E           MIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PhIMAiYs     TOTAL                95.0         99.0      86.01d             80.9                 98.6
MALE                100.0       104.0       89.00d             94.3                 99.2
FENALE               90.0        94.0       82.0/d             66.7                97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                27.0         47.0      47.01d             26.6                 55.5
MALE                 38.0        46.0       47.0/d             34.8                60.7
FENALE               16.0        48.0       48.01d             18.2                 49.9
VCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..           1.0       1.0                9.9                 13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR7IARY                           31.0           ..      29.0               41.1                 34.6
SECONDARY                           ..          ..         ..               20.5                 28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       75.0 /       77.6      78.1               40.9                 85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0          7.0       6.8                1.8                  9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        36.0           ..      38.0               25.8                118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..           ..        ,.                2.4                 39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 36.0         49.0        ..               13.4
CINEiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           ..       4.0                 ..                  4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3390.9       4186.9   4930.6
FIKALE (PERCEhT)                  22.6        23.7       24.0               29.4                 36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.3         55.1      54.0               70.5                 51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.5         14.4      15.0               11.6                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.3         33.5      34.6               37.9                 39.1
MALE                                50.8         49.2      48.2               51.3                 48.5
FEfALE                               16.2        16.5      20.3               23.7                 29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.4       1.2                1.2                  1.1
INCOIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4           ..      18.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1         43.4      42.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5          7.5       7.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7         19.2      19.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA,)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..              107.8
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               86.5                192.1
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               .,           ..        ..                 ,,                182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
ICOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               46.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               51.7                 33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
.b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963;  /d Due to changes in duration of levels in education, the ratios are not strictly comparable
aver time; /e 1962; /f 1972.
April, 1980



- 26 -                                                     M~~~~ANEX I
-                                                ~~~~~~Page 3
DEFINITIONS IF SOCIAL. INDIICATORS
Nose-    Alth-ug, nice date are dawn free souce  genral  judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should ela be notd tht they nay not be inter-
notluullocoopeatOrhatnus oftee lckh     o  stnal.dde  encsad  atoecpes osed by diirn    eoo                               nclec1.ting ths deto.  The data era, none-
tholou-, ..o   .lt  descib,       tdor    fnec d.,  iZa.,  recde,and ebhoawt-i-s   -tein mJor diflros betwee   noceie..
Therefreoa goup  se  III oh 0 sane truerry grouy, otthe subject  oe ..try end (2) a oounnny group nith aemechen higher  -osege isro.e thee th. enuntry group
of the nafoct oeunry  Isatet Icr "CPlilfrle01lpetr"gopoeeMiddle Ineome INorth hAres sd Middle  teen" Is chosen b.eosue. of stronger
..est hell ohnl  0;c'leOegophoe data  for that iedten,to.  finee' thtneaso   oeee    mn he SEdlaosdpndt                                                 ntetaOeiipo
data   e  eet antles  courte  suet bee..e..leed  .to e tlattg  -c-gso  of nin  indloaton  tc anonher.  Thseeoge  n  only seet,t enepatgthe nelse
of ou   .i-dscre  ata  cone sene toe  -toutY  -ud  otfc...ts  -aroPe..
LuSt unto  -ceoeiqd..cuate    e                                                                                         c::e-ouetc    ttO    ny ...mnen at prttitin~g phy-
Ogeloolnral -Berlnue   of agioul rua  area seedtePorrl    rpoesee..tly                      Poculati.te crNangPero      cplro    ieo    ynme   fpete
-c ocy., yasturo..   sachok  u,d kitchen. gBdent on o  lie rul11n; i977 dana~.                 neeadtml rdaenre,PrPo1ttilea nirasd.d adeseea    u s
tLTIT  -t  ...... -,k't                PPorlanton. - per .esina1 Bed - stal,1 untbe.  e- rrl-Pplro    enl
isr roeCAPIIO   It)) -my per  oy Itoesrnsoo  corec  soke  pr.iose, 6a0-                     ubee, end tuna) divided by thoi  rape i   numbe  of boepita1 bode
cufurd hby sewcr Io  nthd as  ond lock AtlasI  hll-7dbss)                             O            ceeilable  to peblie and pri-ers gen.n.  co d epooeiond beepine1 end re-
I9 0, sod 1979 data.                                                                               hobilitarlon  cetes         e.npitai  ar  este-blismenbte  permanetly ent.ffd
by a  boa  onephyscio.     terbliebh.e.e. prneiding  potncipslly cotatdie1
OSEtIl  dSSOcc2ldS  P15CAPITA    donsa  c.nnepet.. o t omoc nre.(oe                         Are ore not ineloded.  loca   hopitele,thwvr  iselude bhal   andh                mdiosi
and  )    klson . Ecclt.   nasa.    u  ndhde,nule   n    enhre.1c-                               rneeno    emnnly erefe.d by ephysirten  (hot by a sedica1.. asetetet.
trtettol  Onktlogrest o  eec1 equirlent per rapita; 1960, 1970, and 1918              nurse  mdm if, etc.) which offer tnpaient a-edetio  and provide
data,                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of   edirel facilite.Pssntietinel por,posee o-b- hospi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                            ~~~~~~~tale include WHlOn yel,ibpol ganerc1 and spoialised bospitele, and ruralI
rcPfl.ITIIM  dIllOITAL  pTtIlSTIC
Todtal Porlrop          i-la    silet  -. nof July 1; 1960, 1970, anh9f                          u.stnsprMsie   e  -1-nte,neate  ofdt. edmstne   ror discarge
data,,   P1122q     911~b                                                                         from  hospitels divided by thena beofbds
dlnsedeiniclon  of1c7nboeranAy  lo                ce"rshrilnty of den tTIf
aegeeserrl    i1t96      910  ad 1979 data.                                                 A-ersos Sloe of  nEsb..ohld  I-.ersess        per ..sehall) - total. arbos. asdransi-
Poculatirn  Prolsettens                                                   ~~~~~~A bo..e.hold coriene of egniP of isdinidoel  who share  lininggoetr
Pouoio   nror2101 E- Co'lttn pesate    orsisirol t eont see based o190                    Andthoir main   ol.cbA           re     rldger may or ye on  ho tslsd"din.
tona   opoluew    y  g   cdsnne   hIrmralt   ndfri Styrei.                                     tnthoseo'      dfo  stat eticl puP.se...
one lif0  csycte-c  or birch   -nore.sLag with"county's per e pita  nEo..s                    bar ofprsn  pe  001.  .al   rbs  an  rrl-wupsdcnnina
"ent, andtslrIlnpeanytetog n 7~7..5.y_sr.  The pera-                                           derIliegs, rsp-otiosly.  Dnellings ranlude   o-amsn srrse    n
coesi lrillyroeaa haeneeecloemigdetline in                                             etutdpre
frrLillyt.ac .ecdlcg  to immmc lo-e  sod yant tatyponngprnmoe                                .o..s e.ic Ileritto      een   fdelie)-itl  ubn   e   ue 
Eachf cosnsrp1 tshewee-igerd ... ci thesewin i conhinatlo" t o-f steity                        C.neninltdeisge Iniom             lrocr   nlnn    qurtrsa
ur   noliy trends fc  prej_cine purpon._                                                  of ttel, unbar, and itel.   dwellings re-p-eti-ly.
Itatcrac   "nuelo      r      etln            ywApuPliutlw   tharo  in no gr-th sines
tehoc>es   saeln   b   etrt,od                        ala the ag  stutuer-               EDSOCATION
noltcnsat Tbis in  -chieed enly after f-yiley  tera  declin e t                     dstdfroiet               ro
cb  rplacsmat la_s  of -ut-we  -eprod-ti-n  rts.t  ohe.  eah genentt-                       Prmr    cho           Ea,ml  end f_nba-_ons   tonal, sale end femal
ne.ttoted entehseo.t   rjro    broeint fthe                              Popolnte                primary abolenPopalnee   mPmll                      as    hide   age  f11
in the you  2000, and oh orte  of detee of ferilt                 .es  no  .ePlao-               Years but adjuend f-r diffsrs-  1s-gths of prtimlysIdaa  ins  fo
con  lec..l.                                                                                      cstrres nlhoioeel edction eenlmes  masesnd 115 psnc.st
hear stnlocachcrulstoi It rsthed  -Tie  .. ynrhen  sttienany population                 sic    'nsppi'e er b-       o   oran    he officialsoen Pae
nice hue been esue bed.                                               ~~~~~~~Secon.dary scbonl - nntl. male end fme1s- Camputed ocebevale...ondary
PcsltweInet  Ideaorqrs   nlea   onpasa   ppoa    rmr   ntutins;
Ps  so. ha.- Mid-.cas   pue nPer eq.er. bilome.e t-1101 heteree) of                                predegnrl oeIenal.  or--y.- f-p t..brtrinn                 tisatretrn i at  papi
total erca.                                                             usne~~~...lly of 12 no 17 years ofag:wreptndensrars   n  gemerlly
PeIa.,   ha  outiclt-rel  lend - Cepon   u  oec  tr  groutoallad                                    aocred
-Olhy.Veain                                                                                                 enrolmen   Ireeetnf..e..nderyl -   oeiea   rnetitari..s
hi. feera),nod retired(65 years ed  -ce) en p-rcenngee  efmd-peer popu-                  d-nlc   rs  deperes-t  of t-eed-r  iretitsntsi
lurOor  iNtl  1970,eta lft Ost.  PChi-lrecher0re14 -yri-er.  andkscueero -  orel  tudent  enroled  e
64yea-opoacn   fo  195-f,Ih-,an190 .                                                                 orsedinglevls
laten   1960 197061   oh-, d17   ad..   P9if.sapal                                                           etaeofee.d..poueto   aged 15T year  and.t  oe.t1  di
popolanion; 1960, 197, en    9fdae                                                     iSlATS
popuueln;  960  197, ad 176  ata                                                            caa-dso   leesd she' eigh  persons; sol bdee embtanr.. hearaseI an
t.PIity  cre;  usually0,.. fleyetarrg8              edn id96,190ted197                           bedrCONogeealpblrpe   bosedo  ppPTiI;scldsNnt
tanll   b.Planct p-Ocon,  Asuo              d-hueay  P- loose ...bcd  0r itopyo-                Pe...d A",    veaOneanr    sod in yesru when                ... regi tra go   o  endi  se
c-I bleb       196l  enrs 7   cder asdcst   oioa   aoyrenitpor                                   ese. in.i   I..e.t done   -icreht  years- may men.  -be om..r.b. stew    moa
h.,r  of child-btarniae-          1-1  ere7shfecbrr-.nr..e.eete                                17   ei-ea   er  hsne   pclsin)-TO  ecier-urhjeistS
oil nuer ted women te tune ego droop.                                             geesrel pab6lic9 pend 1  7thousand pupolatioln;.lnuel-deh  seliossePed  TOO reo-1 iners
F..i                             -...I a-b-   f  -.Pt.t.                  e     d t-1 t-t.~~~i ru.s.r... end-c yeas   h y noieraoo   or.  giN netsass   di
,if 00 bilth-cIItt d-te.d                             t..If.iyp..i%  tt.et                                                  Le    ..t  et-Y.tb   .p bl i.  at
teaor  eeci.  ..ded. a -       g Ogeg t - eweeio  fouh  o..y.ebuede-tckr  soldidaPcn                                          ..ehe year   toeuing edm -in    ie drieo    oletee
acerao medNtD  prIRITeighte; l,h.-SO. 1970. and 1970 deta.fand neltre seine
Foe  cemita  nO7PlP  or celcelee  I ceecent ci reculemantel - C~~emysce  fees
q_n_ tOr  oe   In foo  preten le, ad              Iosne In dOntbsin           eoe-             ttntasn   ato    e re    n  cothmprel   16 , 197  end
orItt nte ostluned  h  PdE baed.owApyalelo  teal.neds fornormalcml-                             199 dane
wInycdhalh.ni erlng  onedAleectheencatl  iorru r. bod  weghs  agIeel   (oes    - Femaleld                                    labor force antldi. periei.ge of renallabo  forc.
-i-uer-boid   leel tIhIh, 197,.haed              1- 19  197 0 dana.H                            fisd  bllepeonn           f  oall.n.oceit.,190ed.9f  oa
Per  matn    seiro  peotei   (aoapeAx      foen cntent of pe   sio                             Ider   (ece)-Lbrfte   wmnn,cntucin                                    aaetnn
allease  o_0 crane ora total  rNetc per lay. a_rd20gram  feel eislad,                       Pa  attce nRt   nbeeceet)    note..,  mle,edreasrutergioo
hoi  1-e Sre; 1961-65,  91 197       1977 dana.                                          ahe-eeosrraco ge of  theppulaion, andt long tine ' med.  A97 fe  eti
letcareer rsy   so re.tly frogesso   an   nis                 a r  tS supl  of  fod  e           mns  r  from  nationl  osee
betr,,,d  -eo   etee  ed pul        nges   e d     ay;P19h1-tSd   197 -an   1977 due1960c eednvRai       ai  o   oaai    ue   5ed  5edrs
Chld(ce   1u   Metait  fete. (Se-blieaed( -y UDeeA p-deafth pe   husn   n                  ectetoa            efre
tries dana dented  Icon lile  tables; 1960, 1971 and 1977 data.           INElOf  SIsTeloclIct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  070ad 179  .t.
"      eontg   ofPiat    noe   bt   i   ahan    td   - RPsne    yntbe
ilulThf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  :b"'ttI. T.                                                                                  d        .
If__ _ __  _ __d__     _  __  _foIou e ol s
at bomb;  Ofif. ll'(  end 1979 data.~~~~Ld1.-                                                    .' 
IcEotOoncloonot   (oeth oseOf- un,ua  deth  of.~ leYceuneInfyaIOIROTRRTIl
of.a  ..fee.efoccthed  llne bletb..               .                                   eniatedAbAOutE.otttyeItoneierd (II  ret oiptito)  - urba  and  etorO
t.nrrw  pol  (ttl.uba,edrro.cn..soaiuretoee                                             on    tonall   adift  dirt pplus.- es dni-o noniced  rutnemeAtf  us otE
pocwi  gn   fthi  ropoin    cslno                     Ieo bu,IaeoacpiebDic                       du... reatv    prerty  income lee  Osre-thir. d- oP aneeg   per cepita
Ciculd i  or4 MnodpctL Peaed ctnelen20mte                     rs  te atwee sat        e            prosibnso    b:onr.ihtlas   sdne   fo    h   aa
reses   nacon   ecd  miyte   the hosso190 wi970e ne e1ber dt.  thIoseod                        NCOM tEDISRIUTONlno    eo          bouePvryIes   ee    nree       r
h0.fc-Lhhlile,f.r.e  .ce. of   oosgufoc-r.......hrlndau
.1b-l Ne9bec  190 perrd   tots8   aro,wdeua(nnndb-er
Hou   c    rfa Rth   -w batrer. aed dAn- o.1 c.lho c without ree-recs Y...nsbPOVERRTY                                                       ndTARGETioosDepOtmeo
cool p,  hl-    cLone b-or. orabe..r-.te        enes_rtb  (acSci                                                                        byri. bfit)- b.    d
niiu:;eeno (I oticoro.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t!it.. :  b 



ANNEX I
-27--                                   Page  4
$RI LANKA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                        EST
1965     1970      1976     1977      1978      1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF USS AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product               1783.0   2354.0   2747.3   2811.4   3020.7   3294.7
Gains from Terms of Trade             539.7    242.2    185.1    413.4    362.6    324.7
Gross Domestic Income                2322.7   2596.2   2932.4   3224.8   3383.3   3619.4-
Imports                              1189.8   1017.3    913.5    999.3   1272.8   1550.8
Exports - Volume                     -670.2   -662.9   -660.5   -694.5   -754.8   -819.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted              -1209.9   -905.1   -845.6  -1107.9  -1117.4  -1143.7
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted           -20.1    112.1      67.9   -108.6    155.4    407.1
Total Consumption                    2055.9   2239.0   2563.6   2648.2   289,1.1   3219.0
Investment                            246.8    469.4    436.8    468.0    647.6    807.5
National Savings                      244.3    297.9    350.7    570.6    511.1    434.6
Domestic Savings                      266.9    357.3    368.9    576.6    492.3    400.4
GDP at Current US$                   1686.6   1870.6   2424.2   2821.3   2546.3   3370.4
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF GDP AT 1975 PRICES)
Agriculture                           0.444    0.422    0.376    0.387    0.322    0.306
Industry                              0.171    0.211    0.217    0.201    0.260    0.269
Services                              0.385    0.367    0.407    0.412    0.418    0.425
PRICES (1975 - 100)
Export Price Index                    65.65    56.86    95.16   119.13   125.63   138.59
Import Price Index                    36.37    41.64    74.33    74.67    84.86    99.24
Terms of Trade Index                 180.52   136.55   128.02   159.53   148.05   139.65
GDP Deflator (US$)                    94.59    79.47    88.24   100.35    84.30   102.30
Annual Average Exchange Rate           4.76      6.85    10.88    11.06    15.61    15.57
Growth Rates       1978 Share
1965-77            of GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF USS AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                            3.9              100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                           12.0
Gross Domestic Income                             2.8              112.0
Imports                                          -1.4               42.1
Exports - Volume                                  0.3               25.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted                           -0.7               37.0
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted                                          5.1
Total Consumption                                 2.1               95.7
Investment                                        5.5               21.4
National Savings                                  7.3               16.9
Domestic Savings                                  6.6               16.3
GDP at Current US$                                4.4
PRICES (1975 - 100)
Export Price Index                                5.1
Import Price Index                                6.2
Terms of Trade Index                             -1.0
GDP Deflator (US$)                                0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-77
ICOR                                              4.37
Import Elasticity                                -0.39
Average National Savings Rate                     0.11
Marginal National Savings Rate                    0.32
Imports/GDP                                      0.44
Investment GDP                                    0.16
Resource Gap/GDP                                  0.04
1/ Components may not add up because of rounding.



- 28 -                          ANNEX I
Page 5
SRI LANKA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973     1974    1975      1976    1977    1978       1979
EST.
A C T U A                         EST.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Exports (incl. NFS)          424.3    570.4   628.2    628.5   827.3   950.0    1135.0
2. Imports (incl. NFS)          445.3    731.7   798.8    679.0   746.2  1081.0    1539.0
3. Resource Balance            -21.0   -161.3  -170.6    -50.5    81.1  -131.0    -404.0
4. Net Factor Service Income  -17.3    -16.6   -18.4    -20.1   -15.0   -15.0          -16.0
.1 Net Interest Payments      -14.7    -14.7   -15.9    -18.6   -14.0
of which on PUB M&LT Loans-15.5    -16.5   -20.6    -23.1   -22.1
.2 Direct Investment Income   -2.7       -2.0    -2.4      -1.5    -1.1
.3 Workers Remittances (net)    .0         .0       .0       .0       .0
5. Current Transfers (net)         .2      -.2      2.8      6.6    10.5    22.0        48.0
6. Balance on current account -38.1   -178.1  -186.2    -64.0    76.6  -124.0    -372.0
7. Private Direct Investment       .5      1.3      -.2        .0     -.3     2.0       47.0
8. Grants & Grant-like Flows   13.0       42.0    77.0      58.0    60.8    58.0       139.0
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9. Disbursements                 83.8    146.3   157.4    210.4   150.1   236.0        186.0
10.Amortization                -39.1    -52.4  -117.7   -103.8  -101.9    43.0         -44.0
ll.Net Disbursements            44.7      93.8    39.7    106.7    48.2   193.0        142.0
OTHER MSLT LOANS
12.Disbursements                   .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0        .0
13.Amortization                    .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0        .0
14.Net Disbursements               .0       .0       .0        .0      .0       .0        .0
15.Use of IMF Resources         -1.4      33.3    27.9      11.1    46.9    36.0        67.0
16.Short-term Capital
Transactions                 -9.8      13.2    -2.8    -22.6       6.5      .0         .0
17.Capital Transactions NEI    28.2       62.3   -12.0    -31.8   -56.9   -35.0         92.0
18.Change in Reserves
(- - Increase)       1/     -37.1      56.8    56.6    -57.4  -183.0    94.0         48.0
19.Net Foreign Exchange-
Reserves (end of period)   -11.0    -67.8  -124.4    -67.0   116.0   210.0          258.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Official Grants               21.1     37.0    76.0      53.1   104.3   123.7  )  660.0
2. Total Public M&LT Loans       92.1    233.1   285.8    221.8   167.6   324.9  )
.1 IBRD                         .0         .0       .0       .0       .0      .0         .0
.2 IDA                          6.0      24.0    29.5        .0    41.2    25.5        68.0
.3 Other Multilateral           2.8       2.5    30.0       8.1    49.7    83.2        42.2
.4 Governments                 58.4      72.9   196.6    140.9    69.7   192.8
.5 of which Centrall Planned
Economies 2/                 2.6      21.4    56.1       4.2      1.7    10.0
.6 Suppliers                   25.0    133.6    29.7       72.7      7.0    23.4
.7 Financial Institutions         .0       .0       .0       .0       .0      .0         .0
.8 Bonds                          .0       .0       .0       .0       .0      .0         .0
.9 Public Loans NEI               .0       .0       .0       .0       .0      .0         .0
3. Other M&LT Loans (where
available)                      .0       .0       .0       .0       .0       .0        .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant Element of Total
Commitments                45.000    27.100   55.700  39.800  64.400   62.686         67.521
2. Average Interest Rate         .037      .051      .029    .040    .021       .024       .020
3. Average Maturity (years)  23.700    13.600   28.800  20.500  35.400   29.529          39.715
1/ Net Foreign Assets: US$ Equivalent of Line 31, IFS.
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Republic of China,
North Korea, North Vietnam.
figures not available
May 16, 1980



ANNEX I
Page  6
SRI LANKA
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973       1974     1975       1976      1977      1978
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)         484.8       587.3    598.0     702.3      787.0     974.5
Including Undiebursed                              680.1       875.7    997.0   1.103.8   1,217.9   1,428.1
Public Debt Service                                -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0      -94.9
Interest                                           -15.5      -16.5    -20.6      -23.1     -22.1      -22.8
Other M&LT Debt Service                                .0         .0       .0         .0        .0        .0
Total Debt Service                                 -54.6      -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0    -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
Debt Service Ratio                                  12.9        12.1     22.0      20.2       15.0      10.0
Debt Service Ratio 1/                               13.5        12.4     22.4      20.4       15.1      10.1
Debt Service/GDP                                     2.7         2.7      5.2       5.2        4.4       3.7
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue              15.7        10.0     19.0      20.0       23.5      14.7
TERMS
Interast On Total DOD/Total DOD                      3.2         2.8      3.4       3.3       2.8        2.3
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                        11.3        11.7     23.1      18.1      15.8        9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEST
Gross Diab./Imports (Inrl. NFS)                     18.8       20.0      19.7      31.0      20.1       24.1
Net Transfer/Imports (Inel. NFS)                     6.6        10.6      2.4      12.3        3.5      15.4
Net Tranafer/Groes Disb.                            34.9        52.9     12.1      39.7      17.4 -    63.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD Dieb./Gross Total Dieb.                         6.5         3.4      3.6       1.6       1.3         .7
Bank Group Disb./Grose Total Disbureements          12.4        10.9     12.2       4.0       8.7        5.6
IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                   6.6        5.8       6.1       5.1       4.4        3.3
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                             9.5        10.0     12.5      11.3      11.3       10.3
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                 8.0        7.4       4.0       4.7       4.9        6.1
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service           8.1         7.5      4.2       5.0       5.2        6.5
OUTSTANDING DECDMER 31. 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                            AMOUNT            PERCENT
IBRD                                                                         34.3              4.4
Bank Group                                                                   89.0             11.3
Other Multilateral                                                           43.8              5.6
Governments                                                                 574.9             73.0
Of Which Centrally Planned Economies 2/                                    52.8              6.7
Suppliers                                                                    79.2             10.1
Financial Institutions                                                         .1                .0
Bonds                                                                          .0               .0
Public Debt NEI                                                                .0               .0
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                      787.0            100.0
Other Public M&LT Debt                                                         .0                .0
Other M&LT Debt                                                                .0                .0
Total Public Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                 1,217.9            154.8
Total M&LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                   1,217.9            154.8
DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1978-82/Total DOD End of 1977                             63.5
1/  Including Net Direct Investment Income
2! Includes CMEA Countries. People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam
Figures not available
February 27, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                          Amount (net of
Credit                                                           cancellations)
No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose                     Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed              72.9   66.8
504    1974  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development                           9.0     6.3
666    1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation                             5.0     4.3
701    1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II             19.0    17.4
709    1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                               9.2      1.2
742    1977  Sri Larka  DFC - Industrial IV                        8.0      2.7
818    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)            21.0    18.9
819    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Diversification (Tea)            4.5      1.7
891    1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development              20.0    18.2
900    1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                          16.5    16.2
931    1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                      15.5    15.5
942    1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries               16.0    15.2
979    1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical
Assistance                              3.0     3.0
994    1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                  53.0    53.0
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                     16.0    16.0
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                        30.0    30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                       30.0    30.0
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                               19.5    19.5
Total,                                                     72.9  362.0   269.1
of which has been repaid                                 41.2    0.2
Total now outstanding                                      31.7  361.8
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                          31.7  312.3
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1980)
Amount of US$ Million
Year         Obligor               Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.10      0.10
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.00    -        2.00
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                  3.15   0.46      3.61
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag         0.90   0.10      1.00
1980  Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking         -      0.05      0.05
1980  LOLC                        Leasing                    -      0.28     0.28
Total Commitment now held by IFC                6.05   0.99       7.04



- 31-
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide processing equipment
to the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for supplying to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to consider reformulating the project. Before proceeding
with reformulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate
incentives to the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and
stabilizing feed prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and
the climate for dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would
focus on what was a small component of the original project -- support to
dairy cooperatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in
a manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of dairy cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to
a considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads; (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and (e)
technical assistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the irri-
gation systems. Significant improvement in project implementation progress
and construction quality has been made during the last one year. A new man-
agement team has been posted, which is planning, scheduling and coordinating
work actions much more capably than the previous project manager. The project
has the full interest and support of the Ministry of Lands and Land Development;
the Director of Water Resource Development makes periodic field reviews of the
project to keep abreast of project development and problems and the Additional
Secretary chairs the monthly Coordination Committee meetings. Equipment main-
tenance and downtime is still a problem, but a new maintenance workshop is
scheduled for completion by March 1981 and new construction equipment is
expected to arrive during the latter part of 1980. The agricultural Technical
Assessment Area (70 ac) realized an average paddy yield of 60 bu/ac during
maha 1979/80 using only 2.8 ft of delivered tank water, principally as a
result of early land preparation and planting. A water management program
has been planned for the whole of the Mahakandarawa subproject area during
maha 1980/81, utilizing rainfall to the maximum extent possible so that tank
water can be conserved for the yala crop. Farmers are being organized within
each turnout for rotational water issues and all fields will be ploughed early
(by the onset of the rains) to enable early planting. Considerable enthusiasm
has been generated for this trial program. Project completion is now antici-
pated by December 1982.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes on 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone, together
with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in the form
of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and processing
facilities for 71,000 acres and improved agricultural extension services for
106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with Canada, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC. Considerable
progress has been achieved in the construction of the irrigation system and
the outlook for completing the project about 1-1/2 to 2 years ahead of schedule



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
remains good. The settlement of many areas has begun. A total of about
2,600 farms out of a total of about 13,500 had been settled by early 1980 and
settlement of all areas is scheduled for completion by late 1980. On-farm
development work has been completed for about 1,000 farms but is not keeping
pace with settlement. The completion of social infrastructure is lagging far
behind other project components but steps are being taken to accelerate this
work. Water issues were started in November 1979 in some of the recently
settled project areas and water charges have been initiated in adjoining
areas of System H completed previously (a total of about Rs 120,000 had been
collected by mid-November 1979). A feeling of optimism is prevalent among
project staff. Quality control measures and the quality of completed works
continue to improve but are still not up to desired levels. Much of the work
is only partially completed and considerable cleanup remains in areas where
construction work is essentially complete. The agricultural extension program
is adversely affected by inadequate staffing and morale and discipline of
extension staff are low. The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, is personally
taking steps to rectify these conditions. A farmer training program (organized
in part of System H) is achieving excellent results and will be expanded over
the total area. Disbursements are still far behind schedule but are expected
to increase significantly with the approval of several requests for withdrawal
by end-1980.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977; Effective
Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes, intro-
ducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during the past year,
particularly in procurement.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$7.8 million have been authorized.
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.



- 34-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards have been
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Foun-
dations for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. Implementation of settlement aspects of the project
(settler selection, transfer of non-citizen labor to other estates, and land
allocation) has started. This is the most sensitive and potentially difficult
part of the project.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project has
been in full operation for over a year. In general, project activities are
progressing according to schedule. The Project Steering and Coordinating
Committees are working regularly and effectively. Site selection surveys
and designs for most buildings and other facilities to be constructed under
the project have been completed. The agricultural credit inventories of
overdue debts have been completed and the recovery performance is improving.
The T&V system of agricultural extension has been introduced in the district.
The construction programs for irrigation, rural electrification and education
are progressing ahead of schedule. However, there have been some deficiencies
in the construction standards of some irrigation and education works. Recently,



- 35-
ANNEX II
Page 6
the irrigation works have improved substantially and specific measures have
been taken to improve quality standards of education buildings.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project would also provide plant and equipment for workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants have
been appointed, contract documents revised and improved, equipment has been
ordered and a pilot road maintenance district set up.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages. Implementation during the first year has
been slower than anticipated due to delays in procurement and staffing.
Recently, however, most full time staff have been recruited while essential
vehicles and equipment are expected to be received from suppliers by December,
1980. With these, implementation is likely to improve. Civil works are
progressing satisfactorily. Some questions have been raised as to the feas-
ibility of operating the T&V method of extension in the wet zones dominated
by tree crops, absentee landlord and inadequate infrastructure. This is
under review by Government and Bank staff.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million,
so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would
have two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing
services. Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in
the National Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made
to small and medium industries by commercial banks and the Development Finance
Corporation. The technical services component would be implemented by the



- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7
Industrial Development Board, Department of Small Industry, Department of
Textile Industries, and the National Institute of Management, and directed
at specific subsectors - rubber products, light engineering, subcontracting
exchanges, handlooms, coir products, and rice milling. About 35% of the
total subloan amount has already been committed, but disbursements through
the refinancing facility and IDA credit are lagging due to delays in subse-
quent implementation. Most technical assistance activities have either been
completed or are well underway.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million;
Effective Date: July 7, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1982.
The project is to provide technical assistance for: (i) preparation
of a reconnaissance-level study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus
Mahaweli Ganga water to develop land in three alternative areas in order to
select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) ongoing review
of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and
preparation of final designs and tender documents for construction of civil
works and social infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin;
and (iii) support for other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program. A consultancy contract was awarded on July 29,
1980 for the preparation of specifications and tender documents for the
Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal and for the preparation of final designs
and tender documents for irrigation and social infrastructure in System C.
The consultant is assisting MDB in the designs for System C and the designs
have been essentially completed for Zones 3 and 4. A consultancy contract
was awarded during August for studies to determine the most economically
viable and technically feasible plan for conveying surplus flows of the
Mahaweli Ganga to the North Central River Basin and/or Northwest or Southeast
Dry Zones and utilizing the water for irrigated agriculture. The consultant
mobilized in Sri Lanka on September 8, 1980 and started reviewing available
data. The consultant's first report is scheduled for completion November 30,
1980.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million; Effective
Date: October 27, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project would improve the availability and reliability of public
road passenger transportation services throughout Sri Lanka. It would intro-
duce improved maintenance standards, thereby improving fuel efficiency. It
also aims to improve the financial condition of Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board and Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), and progressively reduce and by
1983 eliminate Government subsidies for public bus operations.  The project
provides for the purchase of 2,100 bus chassis, which will be assembled at
the assembly plant in Sri Lanka. It also includes improvements of bus main-
tenance facilities and practices in RTBs, traffic engineering measures to
improve bus flows on roads, and technical assistance and training for the
execution of the project and institution building. Consultants have been
appointed in the fields of procurement, industrial engineering and accounting.
Bid documents are under preparation.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
The project is aimed to assist the Government in rehabilitation
of rubber acreage. The annual rehabilitation/replanting has declined in
the recent past with a backlog of about 24,000 acres requiring replanting.
The project would pay particular attention to smallholder rubber cultivation,
cover rehabilitation of 40,000 acres over a four-year period, and strengthen
extension and research for rubber. It will also improve the quality of
rubber through processing improvements.
The project is making satisfactory progress. A suitable part-time
Project Coordinator and a full-time Project Officer have been appointed.
Recruitment of additional extension staff has started. Orders have been
placed for planting materials for the first planting season (1981).
Cr. No. 1020 - Telecommunications Project; US$30.0 million; Effective Date:
September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The principal objectives of the project are to increase the number
of telephone connections and improve the quality of telecommunications facil-
ities. Additional rural areas will be brought into the telecommunications
network, domestic telexes introduced, and trunk services improved. The
project also includes improvements in the organization, management and plan-
ning in the telecommunications sector.
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. Bid docu-
ments for procurement are under preparation.
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million;
Not Yet Effective.
The project contains two major components. The water supply compo-
nent would provide for the treatment, transmission and distribution of an
additional 125 mld of water in the Greater Colombo area. The sewerage compo-
nent would improve the sewage collection system in Colombo and parts of
Kolonnawa and Dehiwala/Mt. Lavinia. The project would include construction
and renovation of 30 km of sewers, 15 sewage pumping stations, 20 km of force
mains and two ocean outfalls for safe disposal of sewage. Institution build-
ing is also a major objective of the project. The project was approved by
the Board on June 10, 1980. In addition to the IDA contribution of US$30.0
million, the project includes cofinancing in the amount of US$30.0 million
from Saudi Fund for Development.



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million; Not Yet Effective.
Based on earlier projections of power and energy demands and exist-
ing or already financed generating capacity, it was proposed to direct IDA
assistance towards extending and improving the transmission and distribution
system. The project would provide for additional transmission lines, grid
substations, and subtransmission facilities. These additional facilities
would be needed to transmit and distribute power dictated by load growth. It
also includes consultancy services for the preparation of a possible Seventh
Power Project, which will primarily include transmission from Victoria. The
project was approved by the Board on June 19, 1980, but signature was delayed
because of lack of commitment of IDA authority due to delay in Italian con-
tribution. In addition to the IDA credit, the project includes cofinancing
in the amount of US$20.0 million from Saudi Fund for Development.



- 39 -                      ANNEX III
Page I
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
Eleven months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Plan Implementation
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
January 1979 and August 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 21, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 10, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March 30, 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to
the Association, with Bank of Ceylon and People's
Bank (para 48); and
(b) Appointment of supervisory consultants on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 50).
Other Conditions
(a) Constituting the Project Steering Committee, and
establishing a District Coordinating Committee for
each district (paras 42 and 43);
(b) Appointing a Project Director for each district
(para 44); and
(c) Plans and designs of all facilities to be in accor-
dance with specifications and guidelines satisfactory
to the Association (para 45).



I BRD 14949
79'A5               :g   SCX'                Wodd&nessta{zxcrvsive/vfor   ~~~PAKISTAN   y         <        HN
th  oco,neh the r-der hr\
reh. r dh.h-ib ,t -S atahed fh
j~ ~ ~    ~~~d -, ih's,,,,- t--,,     7 Pt7 f f
Koedek0                                                                             PAKSTAN* WP d  B-k  -d  1    0 .,  I   N    D   9 A49
I           I      R
A0        ,                                       ..                                .85
A f     tf4                                      go                                  o    -S     AIAA tOh TOOTDEH -AW              050
A9   ONOOK-  RIS.tERIES ROOD                 535S
K        I                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  KALPIT YO - MOUT.LWOrO- hO-  0.50
PU      #        ,                                                       Ott  EXTRITtOo - OAI-AOS-C 41C0  .A           "
AI4 ~    ~                                                                                    AAl               AW_1KT W-     . I
Tolo.,  76E .TUL\OFYSHERIE   ROADS                                                                                                               O|
/ Qr   /}   <<<</~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \    J ~~~~~~AllW LLAMAWKU ER TISHERIES ROAD                            0E5
T7'AM |                          A>1  NA A4AJ 1/A                         OtO A3 CP ITIIR AW OELA MEDAATHEA ROAD       050
AIR   RA /          ILOVOtA NANAMA oLD  ROOD  1O20
12   0                                           )                                             010 A9 reKANDAKUL onooSHERIESG S   ROAD       oSt
i , //   |\  |  _>      2   A /VA/,,IADSWA          /   |            A1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2O  KALPITIYOA  L ALITAN BEACH  ROAD  I.So
054,> I                             /th   c o \                                                    A15         DATHKODWA . MUKKUTHOOUWAWA RD 1ED-
TolawiloM7;1ar )y              ;>      |                    /                                          All  KARUKUPONREA   TIVONULWOETE R OOD        .SO
|S WIRNDWEL       GA- 0E0APAR  OAD A          2.0
S  .  '-   < 4   (  t __   <~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~00    Cr10  LAOO FEIEDERRATS                                              DSAO05
p1  K-\   ALIAKOAH.KAPPALODA   ROOD          DDG
-EAO   r\   0I0< t.b t                <            X                    <                               OLO5    U BT  H D EN YA TIR-LU   KA T ROAD  D0
'o   MADIIRANKUL . 0A5 00MA ROAD            8Of.
tO(         \  B V ILAT"AMADALANA FROA       0.5G
i N   / A N
OCEA  )N.I                                                                                      SRI LANKA
(  RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
7,AT                                                                                              PUTTALAM   DISTRICT                                         7.451
AX,/Y 0_                I  //)J               5         ROAD  WORKS AND  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
ROAD WA RES
___________   P SHERIES ROADS TO BE MPROVED
.. ll{/HA-  -FEEDER ROADS TO BE IMPROVED
ELECTRIFICATION SCHEME
Koe6VkkPI>WO3F>;         /   F.?  J  GjRl)                        ~                             EXISTING 132 KV TRANSMISSION LINES
A17Y /T _  ,,E --- EXIST NG 33 KV TRANSM SSION LINES
Ae  >  .      33 KV TRANSMISSION LINES UNDER
SIXTH POWER PRO.jECT
A  PROPOSED 33 KV TRANSMISSION LINES
Alaz  \ s /                  j C'HIZA W                                                     PROPOSED SUBSTAT ION
-7'34Y                     A7I2 OADS                                                                                                                            730 '
RAILROADS                                  y
NA A------YA rrA                                                                      -             ELECTORATE BOUNDARIES
- H :   \/  _  _    DISTRICT BOUNDAR ES
M 6X T W W  - .   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
WEIVNAA
Al A
20          4     O    S    10 MIleA
0      4       8       12     16 K-lloet-re
79,45t                                                  I EI                    800                         15'Qr0                  NIARCH 1,801






IBRD 14952R
PAKISTAWo      \      C H I N A                                        80<40 'SI    A K
RURAL DEVELOPMENT TT PROJECT
'5                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MATALE DISTRICT
ND ABAtiongoANGLAD.ESooa d                                                                                  Road  Works and  Rural  Electrification
9  I N D) A        ,                                                                          nogw
Og oQps          e~~~~~          ROAD WORKS
( 5-* e  /   /   m D ath s b o   |      .- - -  R O A D   0   BE   IM PR O V E D   O R   C O N ST R U C TE D
LN-i E    / 2      K J   >   ELECTRIFrATIDEI SCHEMES
-'         10                       e ~~~~~~~~~~~*  Rh~~~E SI!NG 1320V TkANSMISS50N.  NE
6 CS                                                                                                                            EX S T .-/----  ESTING 33KV TRANSM SS ON LINES
A-b-  I,',                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSEDS33KV TRAINSM SSION L NED
0    EX STING SU35TATiONS
.-90 . ,K Of |AP                                                                                         (nomofuwod5/   , ,  s PROPOSED SUBSTATIONS
9/#>,B4Of MAP                            %     !          S       !        <     s    
CObRA                                                                              ______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
tJSRI LANKA /        OD
.C\~~~/ t / ~tenowo  Aods
B 3ELECTORATE S LNDR ES
I4A  N  U R A D  H  A  P U  R A         r                                                                 ( X   Y Tcodo; C   = > *  -   -   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-7 5D                     To And/g.lo                                                                                               >  , - _/ / i /- | ROAD TO BE IMPROVED OR CONDSTRLCTED  MILES7
053  So Aod,goEo .'-..~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )                                                          PAAOMPITIVA - PAtALAWEEA           430~~~~~PA  PTIY -'AALAE~A  .8
<.   lt             >          \ o m o    S                                                              KANDALAMA YLIM3UKKANDANWELA  4E0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A UAAMA KM U  KANDA.EL   60
PALIEGAMA-HETTIPOLA                700
DEWAGIR YA - MARANA                400
I-KJE0000RA- PALLEGAMA             3 00
ELLAALLA-0 RANGAVAWATTA            ERO0
KAIKAWALA - KCOSWANCA              3 00
PITAKANDA - GANSARAPOLA            100
HR 60AWA - ANDAGALA                3 00
MANAH NDA - PATTIEWELA             300
olondewo  Rd  I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAMOILL OVA - RIDIELLA  1200
;I: JX 1              1140 I~l'  MEDABEDDA - DEMBAWNA                                      5.00
AN  LENALA -UOPALAGALA             5DO
:ttoe      WX    A                                 Posooe,pEy            ,1                                                                            DTL 03
-PR ty                                                              PALLEGAMA-NARANGA.UWA              400
RADUNAUA -4 M0AROAKA                00
KEKILLATENNA - OGAOAWOOEWA         0.00
**>  Aed o                                                                                              tWELL- MADJWAeD                    0.00 A  ,/  1
K UntR                                                                           PATADA - PITEWAELA                 325
/                                                      EAUAUPELELLA - RATI,AMLNUGALA      4.25
TEINA-JDUP IILLA                   3.00
TOTAL9030D
-kotPOLONNARUWA 
Tolo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o
PoIIeooI' (                       K                                                                                                                            I
A  X    MATAEJ  <tW On_                 4,'            I~~~~~~~55505  .6 V
VgredBanksse                                                                              affexcigsJve  K-g.  el. \N   . KANDYir
boumdenes showm m ~~~~~~~~IItktmthgrpo                                                   \- ..o...         z        J                      1
do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1010                                                         'ml m ht r oro          th ~V+ C,                 Hell. polo           ES
7    0DD                                     A0,0' -                                                                           l
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                            <
iI19
Udoplollo      . .~ ~~~~~llkkmbra
hot 0t30 Oo, Aeeo eOOheO Ay So  UkuwRlo                   kodu                                                D      2      4      5      6ila ptO  I  I  C
WOhOh Bohkt,te hI et Clot 065 hhh~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3)1
Raflh,~ ~~~~~~~~~      VEa 
the whoa to teAch it S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~
7fCdh30' &,ttoe,,Ot3eC                                                                                                                            3     3     
eooodehetehoeeo oh tAo thohAl   .                              ka.
oohht,t,tOIy 00 thIpeO tithe                                                                                                 ALES~~~~~~~~pol
,  "' '- --h'd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(00,SE



