Document of
The World Bank
Lflj   S    ,-IRFAn. Mio t,, m
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 -    42
Report No. 2942-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 31, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =   Rs 15.6
Rs 1               US$0.0641
Rs 1 million  =   US$64,103
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 long ton = 2,204 lb    =       1.016 metric ton
1 hundredweight (cwt)
= 50.8 kg     =   112 lb
1 bushel (bu) of paddy   =    46 lb
1 kilogram                =   2.205 lb
1 acre (ac)               =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)               =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    =   640 ha (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)               =    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 chain                   -    66 ft
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA      -      Agricultural Development Authority
ADB      -      Asian Development Bank
ARTI     -      Agrarian Research and Training Institute
ASC      -      Agrarian Service Center
BC       -      Bank of Ceylon
CCB      -      Coconut Cultivation Board
CDB      -      Ceylon Development Board
CEB      -      Ceylon Electricity Board
CFC      -      Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation
CFHC     -      Ceylon Fishery Harbors Corporation
CRI      -      Coconut Research Institute
DA       -      Department of Agriculture
DAPH     -      Department of Animal Production and Health
DAS      -     Department of Agrarian Services
DCD      -      Department of Cooperative Development
DF       -      Department of Forests
DH       -      Department of Highways
DL       -      Department of Labor
DLGS     -      Department of Local Government Services
DMD      -      Department of Marketing Development
DMEC     -      Department of Minor Export Crops
DOH      -      Department of Health
DRC      -      Department of Rural Credit
DSI      -      Department of Small Industries
DTW      -      Deep Tubewell
ERR      -      Economic Rate of Return
GOSL     -      Government of Sri Lanka
GDP      -      Gross Domestic Product
GPS      -      Guaranteed Price Schemes
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
ID       -      Irrigation Department
IDB      -      Industrial Development Board
LS       -      Lump Sum
M        -      Million
MADR     -      Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MECRS    -     Minor Export Crop Research Station
MI       -     Ministry of Industry
MT       -     Metric Ton
MPRCs    -     Multi-purpose Cooperative Socieites
NWSDB    -     National Water Supply and Drainage Board
PB       -     People's Bank
PS       -     Prudent Shopping
PV       -     Present Value
RDD      -     Regional Development Division
RDE      -     Regional Department of Education
RDP      -     Rural Development Project
SAPDA    -     Silk and Allied Products Development Authority
SMI      -     Small and Medium Scale Industries
STW      -     Shallow Tubewell
VTD      -     Vocational Training Division
WD       -     Welfare Division
WRB      -     Water Resources Board
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
CE       -     Chief Engineer
DM       -     District Minister
GA       -     Government Agent/District Secretary
lP       -     Member of Parliament
PD       -     Project Director
GLOSSARY
anicut         -   diversion scheme
chena          -   slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district            the principal administrative unit in the country.
There are 24 districts in Sri Lanka.
maha           -   northeast monsoon season (October to January)
paddy          -   unhusked rice
tank           -   reservoir for local rainwater storage
yala           -   southwest monsoon season (March to June)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTORAL BACKGROUND ...................................                         1
General ...............................................                         1
Role of Agriculture in the Economy  ....................                       1
Performance and Problems  ..............................                       2
Objectives and Strategy for the Future  ....                 ............      3
Rural Development Programs  ............................                       3
Bank Group Support to Agriculture  .....................                       4
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  ......................................                        4
Physical and Demographic Features  .....................                       5
Agricultural Sector ....................................                       8
Economic and Social Infrastructure Sectors  ....                ........      14
III.    THE PROJECT ...........................................                        16
Objectives and Approach  ..............          ..     ...............       16
Detailed Features            ...................    ..................        17
A.  Agricultural Sector  ...........................                     17
B.  Water Resources Sector ........................                      22
C.   Economic Infrastructure Sector  ....              ............      25
D.  Social Infrastructure Sector ....                .............       26
E.   Project Coordination and Management  ....              .......      28
IV.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ....                 ...........      29
Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditures  ....                 .........     29
Financing  ..............................................                      30
Procurement  ............................................                       30
Disbursements  ..........................................                       31
Accounts and Audits  ....................................                       32
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION ...................                        33
Implementation Responsibility  ..........................                      33
Implementation Schedule  ................................                      35
Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................                        35
Technical Assistance  ...................................                       36
Operation and Maintenance  (O&M)  ........................                      37
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission comprised of Messrs.
W. Fairchild, A. Seager, L. Vidaeus, D. Morrow and Miss Lituma (Bank) and
Messrs. R. Desrosiers and Y. Murthy (consultants) who visited Sri Lanka in
November/December 1979.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON GOSL BUDGET ....  ............  38
Cropping Intensity, Yields and Production .... .........  38
Marketing and Commodity Prices ........................    39
Impact on the Government Budget .......................   44
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................    46
General   ...............................................  46
Employment and Income Effects .........................   47
Balance  of  Payments   ...................................  47
Economic and Social Infrastructure ....   ................  47
Environmental  Impact   ..................................  47
Economic  Benefits   .....................................  48
Risks  and  Sensitivity   .................................  49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  ............  50
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
Table la - Total Project - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
lb - Total Project - Cost Summary by Districts and Components
2 - Coconut Development - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
3 - Minor Export Crops Development - Cost Estimates and Schedule
Expenditures
4 - Sericulture - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
5 - Agricultural Credit - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
6 - Agricultural Inputs - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
7 - Livestock - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
8 - Forestry - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
9 - Fisheries - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
10 - Irrigation and Water Management - Cost Estimates and Schedule of
Expenditures
11 - Groundwater Exploration - Cost Estimates and Schedule of
Expenditures
12 - Rural Water Supply - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
13 - Roads - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
14 - Rural Electrification - Cost Estimates and Schedule of
Expenditures
15 - Health - Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures



- iii -
ANNEX 1 (cont)
16 - Education and Vocational Training - Cost Estimates and
Schedule of Expenditures
17  -  Project Coordination and Supervision - Cost Estimates and Schedule
of Expenditures
18  -  Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
ANNEX 2   -  Agricultural Credit - General Lending Terms and Conditions
ANNEX 3   -  Minor Export Crops - General Procedure for the Small Homegarden
Subsidy Scheme
ANNEX 4   -  Guidelines for Plans and Designs for Rehabilitation of Major
and Minor Irrigation Schemes
ANNEX i   -  Consultant's Terms of Reference
ANNEX 6  -  Agency Assignments for Project Implementation and Coordination
Chart 1  -  Organizational Chart
ANNEX 7
Table 1  -  Prices Used for the Financial and Economic Analysis
2  -  Financial Analysis for Replanting Cocoa and Cardamom
3  -  Farm Budget for Farmers on Minor and Major Irrigation Schemes
4  -  Farm Budget for Coconut Development
5  -  Farm Budget for Cocoa, Pepper, Coffee
6  -  Farm Budget for Sericulture Settlement Farm
7  -  Summary of Economic Characteristics:  Economic Rate of Return,
Switching Values and Net Present Values
8  -  List of Conversion Factors to Adjust Fioaikcial Costs for .he
Economic Analysis
9  -  Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
MAPS
IBRD 14948 - Puttalam District: Agro-ecological Zones and Major Irrigatir>n
Works
IBRD 14949 - Puttalam District: Road Works and Rural Electrification
IBRD 14950 - Puttalam District: Social Infrastructure
IBRD 14951 - Matale District: Agro-eLological Zones and Major Irrigation
Works
IBRD 14952 - Matale District: Road Works and Rural Electrification
IBRD 14953 - Matale District: Social Infrastructure






SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01      Sri Lanka has a total area of about 23,500 sq. mi (16.2 M ac), with
an estimated population of about 14.7 M. The population has been growing at
a moderate 1.7% per annum after accounting for net migration. About three-
quarters of the populatioi lives in rural areas with the influx to urban-
metropolitan areas being relatively modest.
1.02      Average per capita income currently is about US$200 and has grown
only 1% annually during the past two decades. About 40% of the population is
estimated to have annual income below the poverty level of about US$75 per
capita. 1/ Because of the considerable progress made by the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) in satisfying many of the basic needs of its population through a
relatively well developed social infrastructure, as well as food subsidy
program for the poor, poverty does not take an extreme form.
1.03      Based on rainfall patterns, the island can be divided into two
major zones: the wet zone (average annual rainfall of 75-100 inches) in the
southwest quadrant, and the dry zone (average annual rainfall 35-75 inches)
covering the rest of the island and 64% of the area. A narrow transition band
between the dry and wet zone is sometimes referred to as the intermediate zone.
About three-quarters of the population resides in the wet zone with an average
population density of about 1,800 per sq mi compared to only 200 per sq mi
in the dry zone. Until 1950, much of the population growth took place in the
wet zone. Since then, successive governments have emphasized the development
and settlement of the dry zone through such projects as the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, which is scheduled to irrigate about 250,000 ac by 1988.
As a consequence, the growth rate in the dry zone now exceeds that in the wet
zone. This trend is likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.04      Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy.  In 1978,
it accounted for over one-quarter of GDP, over one-half of total employ-
ment, over three-fourths of export earnings and a large share of public
revenue. Tea and rubber provide about 60% of the export earnings and about
1/   Tentative Bank staff estimate.



- 2 -
40% of Government revenue through export taxes and duties. Local production
of rice, sugar and subsidiary food crops falls short of demand and has to be
supplemented by annual imports. 1/ Production, handling, processing, trans-
portation, trading and servicing of crops and livestock account for over
95% of the occupation of the rural population.
1.05      Variations in rainfall, altitude, and soils make it possible to grow
a wide range of crops with year-round cultivation. Out of some 5.5 M ac under
permanent cultivation, 1.6 M ac are in paddy, 1.2 M ac coconut, 0.6 M ac tea,
0.5 M ac rubber, 0.1 M other perennial crops and the remaining 1.5 M ac mixed
rainfed farming, mostly as small gardens around homesteads. Cropping intensity
on paddy land ranges from about 170% in the wet zone to about 120% in the dry
zone with a national average of about 135%. In addition, about 2.5 M ac are
under slash-and-burn type shifting agriculture locally known as chena culti-
vation. Only one-tenth to one-fifteenth of chena land is cultivated annually.
Performance and Problems
1.06      The agricultural sector's performance during the 1960s was mixed.
Paddy and rubber production grew at annual rates of 4% and 5% respectively,
but tea and coconut production grew at only 1%. Increase in paddy production
enabled Sri Lanka to raise its food self-sufficiency from 50% in 1960 to about
80% in 1970. Poor performance in tea and coconut production and adverse
international price trends, caused the net surplus (in current prices) of
agricultural trade to decline from about US$200 M in 1960 to US$120 M in
1970.
1.07      During the early to mid-1970s, growth in paddy production showed an
annual increase of only 0.6%, while production of tea, rubber and coconut
declined. Poor weather conditions accounted for some of this down turn, but
inappropriate sectoral strategies and policies, which resulted in reduced
private initiative and investment, ineffective and demoralized support serv-
ices, inadequate maintenance of irrigation facilities and poor water management
practices played a major role.
1.08      Responding to this disappointing performance, GOSL in November 1977,
initiated a program of economic reforms. The aim was to stimulate production
over the medium-term by dismantling controls over resource allocation and
establishing strong productive incentives. In the agricultural sector, the
response to the new policies was encouraging. These policies, aided by good
weather and initial production of the Mahaweli Program, resulted in a 10%
increase in agricultural value added in 1977 and was followed by a further 5%
increase in 1978--the first sustained increase since the late 1960s. Paddy
accounted for most of this increase. In 1979, however, the agricultural
sector received a set back due to adverse weather conditions with paddy
production stagnating, although erosion of producer margins because of
inflation probably played a significant role. Again in 1980, it appears
that a serious drought will affect yala paddy production.
1/   Rice imports ranged from 0.2 M MT to 0.5 M MT annually between 1970 and
1979 and wheat flour between 0.3 M MT and 0.6 M MT during the same period.



-3-
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
1.09      The major objectives of GOSL's medium term plans and programs for
agriculture are to:
(a) increase employment and income levels in rural areas,
particularly for the benefit of economically disadvantaged
people and educated youth;
(b) achieve an agricultural growth rate of 5.0% per annum
in the next five years to improve nutritional standards
and achieve a high degree of food self-sufficiency; and
(c) expand export earnings both from traditional agricultural
exports such as tea, rubber and coconut and increase exports
of cocoa, coffee, and spices.
1.10      GOSL strategy for achieving these objectives emphasizes; (a) main-
taining appropriate price incentives; (b) strengthening agricultural support-
ing services (extension, research, credit, storage, transportation and
marketing); (c) improving input supply services, especially for seeds, plant
materials, fertilizers and pesticides; (d) expanding and rehabilitating the
acreage under minor export crops; (e) expanding the irrigated acreage and
improving water management; (f) improving roads and expanding electrification;
and (g) decentralizing planning and development processes.
Rural Development Programs
1.11      In its effort to accelerate growth and improve rural living condi-
tions, GOSL has recently adopted measures to decentralize planning and devel-
opment in the country's 24 districts. These include: (a) appointing a
District Minister to oversee planning and development in each district 1/;
(b) funding a decentralized capital budget; and (c) initiating of rural
development projects in selected districts. District Ministers are appointed
by the President from the elected Members of Parliament (MP). The decentral-
ized budget finances a limited number of small-scale capital works (generally
costing less than Rs 300,000 each). In 1980, each electorate will receive
Rs 2.5 M for these projects with authority for utilizing these funds delegated
to the Government Agent (GA) in consultation with the concerned MP.
1.12      As part of the decentralization program, GOSL is undertaking
a number of rural development projects. These projects emphasize low-cost,
quick yielding, labor-intensive investments aimed at better utilization of
existing infrastructure and potentials. The main advantages of these projects
are: (a) responsiveness to local developmental needs and priorities; and (b)
opportunity to achieve regional equity by balancing GOSL investments in high
capital cost projects such as Mahaweli Ganga Development, with lower capital
1/   Projects and programs which are of a national concern (e.g. Mahaweli Ganga
Project) as well as overall national priorities and policies continue to
be handled at the central level.



- 4 -
cost and quicker yielding projects in areas that do not receive significant
direct benefits from these higher capital cost schemes.
1.13      The IDA supported Kurunegala Rural Development Project (RDP) (Cr.
891-CE) was the first district level RDP undertaken by GOSL. Rural development
projects are also underway in Matara, Hambantota, and Nuwara Eliya districts
with financial assistance from Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands, respec-
tively. The Kurunegela RDP has been implemented so far with few problems
The 1979 annual progress report for this project shows that during the first
year of operation, accomplishments for all components are generally meeting
targets envisioned during appraisal. 1/ The institutional arrangement has
been effective in coordinating this 12 component project. 2/ Kurunegla RDP is
being used as a model by GOSL for designing future RDPs.
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
1.14      Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has heavily emphasized agriculture
and rural development. Since 1968, a total of 11 projects with loans and
credit of US$152.5 M have been financed in this sector including: Lift
Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M); Drainage and Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE,
US$2.5 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development I (Ln. 653-CE, US$14.5 M and Cr. 174-CE,
US$14.5 M); Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 595-CE, US$25.0 M); Dairy
Development (Cr. 504-CE, US$9.0 M); Tank Irrigation Modernization (Cr. 666-CE,
US$5.0 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development II (Cr. 701-CE, US$19.0 M); Tea Rehab-
ilitation (Cr. 818-CE, US$21.0 M); Tree Crop Diversification (Cr. 819-CE,
US$4.5 M); Kurunegala RDP (Cr. 891-CE, US$20.0 M); and Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research (Cr. 931-CE, US$9.0 M). The first four projects have
already been completed. The others are progressing satisfactorily, although
the Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project, Tank Irrigation Modernization
Project and Kurunegala RDP have some problems of quality control during
construction of civil works and have had limited success in implementing water
management programs.  Steps are being taken to remedy these shortcomings and
preventive measures are reflected in this project (paras 3.16 to 3.19 and
5.06).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The project would cover Matale and Puttalam districts.  They were
selected because of: (a) high percentage of rural population, about 87%
compared to 78% nationally; (b) low per capita income, approximately 60% of
the population appears below the annual poverty income level of US$75 per
1/   A June 1980 IDA supervision mission reported the only components with
potential scheduling problems are irrigation and water management and
agricultural credit where targets for rehabilitating 500 village schemes
and short-term crop production loans on 30,000 ac appear to be optimistic.
2/   Consists of a Project Director and supporting staff, District Coordina-
tion Committee at the district level, and Project Steering Committee at
the central government.



- 5 -
capita; and (c) few direct benefits from the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program.
Physical and Demographic Features
2.02      Matale District.  Matale occupies a landlocked central location on
the northern edge of Sri Lanka's highland core. It covers 770.4 sq mi with an
estimated population of 352,000 in 1978. Population density varies from about
930 per sq mi in the southern highland zone to less than 75 per sq mi in the
eastern zone (Map 14953). There are four parliamentary electorates in the
district.
2.03      Mean annual rainfall ranges from about 60 inches in the North to
about 150 inches in the southern highlands with much of the rainfall falling
during the northeast monsoon (maha season) between October and January.
Elevation varies from 200 feet up to 6,248 feet (Gombaniya Peak). About 50%
of the district is below 1,000 feet and only 15% above 2,000 feet. Soils can
support a wide variety of annual and perennial crops, but require fertilizer
for good yields (Map 14951).
2.04      Many of Sri Lanka's major rivers have their headwaters in Matale.
These supply irrigation schemes which are mostly located outside the district.
Major irrigation schemes within the district include the Kandalama, Dewahuwa
and Nalanda reservoir schemes and the Hottota Amuna Ela diversions scheme
(Map 14951). The old Minipe Yoda Ela Diversion Scheme commands some 6,500
ac in Matale, but because of poor maintenance and water management irrigates
about 4,000 ac. There are six other major schemes and about 450 minor schemes
(minor tanks and anicuts) providing irrigation service to an additional 10,000
ac. Five of the major schemes and most of the minor schemes require substan-
tial rehabilitation, including an integrated water management program.
2.05      Groundwater exploration has been limited.  The geology of this
area is characterized by a series of densely fractured crystalline rocks,
which when weathered hold reasonable reserves of groundwater for domestic
purposes, but generally inadequate for major agricultural development.
2.06      Domestic water supplies are inadequate currently (Map 14953); about
74% of the households rely on shallow wells or pits (each serving about eight
households) and 26% on streams and tanks. Reportedly, 50% of the wells are
subject to drying up or are contaminated.
2.07      Puttalam District.  Puttalam is long and narrow and located on the
West central coast. It covers about 1,172 sq mi with an estimated population
of about 440,000 in 1978. Population density varies from less than 200 per
sq. mi in the northern part of the district to over 1,000 per sq mi in the
south (Map 14950). There are five parliamentary electorates in the district.
2.08      The climate is tropical with little variation in temperature but
wide variation in rainfall (Map 14948). Maha rains fall over the entire
district during October-January, but Yala rains (southwest monsoon) reach only
the southern portion of the district during March-June. The northern dry zone
receives less than 50 inches annually. The intermonsoonal dry spell stretches
over two to three months and creates serious problems of moisture stress.



- 6 -
Rainfed crop production is feasible during the maha season; successful yala
cultivation requires supplemental irrigation--especially in the dry zone.
2.09      The district has about 180 mi of shoreline (including lagoons)
which is responsible for its substantial fishery industry. Topography
slopes gently from South to North and toward the western coastal area.
Elevation ranges from sea level to 500 feet. Most soils are relatively low
in nutrients and require fertilizer for maximum production. Because of the
wide combination of soil types, rainfall, sunshine, and humidity, a range of
field, vegetable and tree crops can be grown in the district.
2.10      The drainage pattern of the district is from south to northwest
and east to west; most streams originating in the central hills in Kurunegala
district. Major streams are Maha Oya, Ratambala Oya, Deduru Oya, Mi-Oya and
Kala Oya. There are 16 major and 1450 minor schemes that irrigate 8,500 ac and
about 30,000 ac respectively. Due to past neglect and inadequate maintenance,
most of the irrigation schemes are in poor condition and irrigation service is
far below potential. Management of available water is poor.
2.11      The potential for groundwater development in the district appears
good in certain areas. Currently, 240 shallow wells and 3,100 pits are
irrigating vegetable crops, tobacco and other high value crops on the Kalpitiya
Peninsula. Investigations in the Vanathavillu and Madurankuli-Palavi basin
indicate promise for deep well development in limestone aquifers. Domestic
water supply is mainly from shallow open wells subject to contamination.
Many wells in the dry zone go dry during drought periods (Map 14950).
2.12      Land Use.  Data on land use for the two districts are inconsistent
and fragmentary. The following table shows the best estimate of land use:
Table 2.1:  LAND USE
Matale                       Puttalam
Land Use             Acres ('000)   Percent       Acres ('000)   Percent
Forests                  204          41.2             140          18.7
Paddy                      39          7.9              46           6.1
Coconut                    27          5.5             160         21.4
Minor Export
Crops                   26           5.3              -
Tea                        20          4.0
Rubber                     20          4.0               -
Other Crops                33           6.6             64           8.5
Uncultivated /a            80          16.1            150          20.0
Other Land /b             46           9.4             190          25.3
Total               495         100.0            750.0       100.0
/a   Includes state-owned lands and uncultivated chena.
7H   Includes roads, settlements, water areas, etc.



- 7 -
2.13       The largest land use category is forests which are largely scrub
jungle. Because of the rough topography, shallow soils and climatic condi-
tions, the best use for most lands in this category is forestry--especially in
Matale district which contains much of the upper catchment area of the Mahaweli
Ganga. About 80% of the paddy (85,000 ac) in both districts is irrigated.
Over half of the acreage under minor export crops in Matale District is in
small mixed-forest gardens. There are probably around 350,000 ac of state-
owned land in the two districts that are used for slash-and-burn chena culti-
vation. Crops grown under chena include: manioc, sesame, kurakhan, various
coarse grains, vegetables, pulses and mustard.
2.14      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  According to the 1973 Census of Agri-
culture, there were about 41,200 operational agricultural holdings in Matale
and 57,400 in Puttalam districts. About 86% of all agricultural holding in
Matale and 81% in Puttalam operate farms smaller than 5 ac; whereas only
14% in Matale and 19% in Puttalam operate farms larger than 5 ac. However,
the latter category of holdings make up about 48% of the land in Matale and
67% in Puttalam. Farm distribution size in 1973 was as follows:
Table 2.2: FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Matale                   Puttalam
Holding (ac)      No.       No.   Area        No.     No.   Area
'('000)           7- (%)   ('000)    (/)    (%)
Less than 1         13.2      32       5        23.4      41       4
1- 2               12.0       29      11         9.9      17       7
2- 5               10.5       25      36        13.4      23     22
5-10                4.3       11      26         7.4      13     27
10 plus             1.2        3      22         3.3       6     40
Total           41.2      100    100         57.4    100    100
Due to the breakup of holdings larger than 50 ac under the 1972-75 land
reform, the current farm size distribution is likely to show a larger per-
centage of smaller boldings. The large holdings consist primarily of coconut
plantations in Puttalam and tea, rubber, cocoa and cardamom plantations in
Matale.
2.15      Detailed information on land tenurial arrangement in Sri Lanka
is deficient. It is estimated that in the intermediate zone in Puttalam
about two-thirds of the holdings are owner-operated whereas in the wet and
intermediate zones in Matale only one-third of the holdings are owner opera-
ted. Most of the other holdings in the wet and intermediate zones of the
two districts are under partial or full tenancy arrangements. Typical tenancy
arrangements involve paying the landowners 25-50% of the produce, with the
landowner supplying part of the inputs. In the dry zone in both districts
a common tenancy arrangement is for the farmer to hold land on a 99-year lease
from the government. Tenancy relationship and rental rates are governed by
the Agrarian Services Act of 1979, which affords substantial security to
tenants.



-8-
Agricultural Sector
2.16      Agricultural Practices and crop Yields.  Coconuts are of major
importance in Puttalam but of minor value in Matale. Owing to the high
watertable in Puttulam's northern coastal areas, trees survive and produce
under sporadic and less total rainfall than normally required. Age distri-
bution of the districts' palms is: 0-5 years--17%; 6-30 years--37%; 31-45
years--22%; 45-60 years--16%; and, over 60 years--8%. Thus, as elsewhere in
the country, 24% of the trees are past their peak productive years (age 6-45
years).
2.17      Cultural practices are deficient.  Fertilizer use is about 20 lbs of
nutrients per acre, down from a peak of 55 lbs in 1972 and much below the
desirable rate of over 100 lbs. Water conservation, in the form of contour
trenches, is being practiced on less than 5% of the area. Waterlogging
and flooding occur in some areas.
2.18      Most of the palms are of the tall low yielding type.  Insufficient
rainfall limit the potential cultivation of high yielding dwarf and hybrid
palms to about 50,000 ac in Puttalam. Yields average about 1,500 nuts per
acre annually, with higher yields occurring in the southern wetter portion of
the district. With good cultural practices and replacement of old palms
with selected planting material, it is estimated that average annual yields
would be about 3,000 nuts per acre per annum.
2.19      Intercropping of coconuts with other perennial crops has been
advocated only recently, although successfully practiced in other countries.
The Coconut Research Institute (CRI) recommend that coffee, pepper and cocoa
intercroppings should be limited to about 10,000 acres in the southern part
of Puttulam, unless supplementary irrigation is available. An interesting
development, pioneered by private enterprise, is the successful intercrop-
ping with cashewnut trees in the northernmost, driest part of the district.
Results with improved or natural intercropped pastures are promising through-
out Puttulam district. Investigations by CRI indicate that pastures do not
affect the yield of coconuts, while generating substantial benefits from
animal products. However, the poorly developed sheep and cattle industry
in Sri Lanka precludes full economic utilization of this potential. Inter-
cropping with annual crops and bananas or plantains is commonly practiced.
2.20      Paddy generally receives supplemental irrigation in Puttalam, but
in the wet areas of Matale rainfall is adequate to permit a substantial area
to be grown in ponded (asweddumized) fields. Locally developed high yield-
ing dwarf varieties predominate. Transplanting is common practice in the
wet zone, but infrequently used in dry areas. Land preparation is becoming
increasingly mechanized, although, with increasing fuel costs there is renewed
interest in animal tillage.
2.21      Paddy yields are somewhat above the national average in Matale
54 bu/ac (1.1 MT/ac) but below in Puttalam, 39 bu/ac (or 0.8 MT/ac). 1/
Yields are higher in the maha than in the yala season. The constraints in
1/   National average yield in 1979 was about 52 bu/ac (1.08 MT/ac).



- 9 -
Puttalam are poor water control (flooding as well as drought) and inadequate
weed control in broadcast fields. In the dry zones, late planting of paddy is
a serious problem. It stems from the competition for labor and power require-
ments of chena cultivation. Farmers, who have access to chena lands tradi-
tionally prepare these dry land fields prior to irrigated paddy fields
to take advantage of seasonal rainfall. The lower priority for labor given
to paddy restricts yields and increases demand for stored irrigation water
during the maha season--thus reducing stored water available for yala season.
Experimental results, and the achievements of the better farmers, indicates
a yield potential in excess of 100 bu/ac (over 2 tons/ac) for paddy with the
existing varieties.
2.22      Traditionally, chena (slash-and-burn) cultivation involves a 10 to
15 year cycle on State-owned forest/jungle land. Recently, the fallow period
has been reduced to about five years. This limits the regeneration of soil
fertility. Crops grown are finger millet, sesame (gingelly), chillies,
pulses, maize, sorghum, mustard, cotton, manioc and sweet potatoes. Fertilizer
is needed for these crops to thrive. Because of concerns about land erosion
and other problems associated with chena cultivation, GOSL In 1979 initiated a
program to regularize the better quality chena lands for permanent upland
cultivation and afforest steep poorer quality chena lands.
2.23      Matale is a major producer of minor export crops--cocoa, coffee,
pepper, cloves, cardamom, nutmeg and pawpaw. Substantial acreages of cocoa
(about 6,000 ac) and cardamom (about 2,500 ac) are on poorly managed public
and private estates. Yields are low, averaging 100 lbs/ac for cocoa and 40
lbs/ac for cardamon. Most of the coffee, cocoa, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg are
grown in small mixed gardens, planted among dense stands of jakfruit, arecanut,
banana, breadfruit, and other tree crops. Production per tree is low since
these gardens are not the major source of income for most owners who use few,
if any, inputs.
2.24      The principal class of livestock and their numbers in the project
area are shown below:
Table 2.3: LIVESTOCK ('000 of animals)
Class        Puttalam          Matale
Cattle           73              59
Buffaloes        29              39
Goats            23              14
Poultry         318             189
Cattle are kept principally for slaughter; relatively few are milked. Buffaloes
are the major source of draft power. Because demand for working buffaloes has
increase faster than supply, their slaughter is banned. Goats are mainly
owned by villagers to supply milk and meat. Poultry, in deep-litter houses,
is a growing and profitable enterprise.



- 10 -
2.25      The Department of Forests (DF) has well-conceived forestry programs
in both districts. These aim to reforest underutilized uplands, and degraded
chena lands, to produce timber, pulpwood, and firewood. In the high areas of
Matale district, DF afforestation programs are aimed at protecting the Mahaweli
Ganga River watershed.
2.26      Pinus caribea is used for steep high-altitude catchment protection.
Tectona grandis (teak) and Gmelina arbrea are the dominant hardwoods planted.
Fuelwood supplies are provided by Albizia falcataria, A. lebbek, Eucalyptus
camalduensis, Aredirock indica (neem), and Leucaena leucocephala (epil-epil)
all of which thrive in the dry zones of the project area.
2.27      Sericulture.  The Silk and Allied Products Development Authority
(SAPDA) was created in 1976. It manages a mulberry and silk producing estate
in Kandy district with assistance from UNDP/FAO and Japan. SAPDA supplies
materials and technical assistance to private silkworm producers. In Sri
Lanka, the acreage under mulberry cultivation has expanded from about 420 ac
in 1977 to about 1,200 in mid-1979. About 10 MT of cocoons were exported
during 1979. Currently, SAPDA is developing settlement schemes where the
principal activity is growing mulberries and silkworms. About 4,000 ac in 17
different electorates are involved. Sericulture appears to be a profitable
enterprise for the settlers and has the potential for significant export
earnings. In Matale, the 400 ac Bowatena Rubber Estate and 190 ac Rajagamma
Estate have been identified as potentially suitable for the cultivation of
mulberry and settlement by silk producers.
2.28      Agricultural Research and Extension.  The National Rice Breeding
Center at Batalagoda in Kurunegala District has developed and adopted high-
yielding varieties of rice suitable to all agro-climatic zones of the island.
The station is able to meet all foreseeable requirements for the breeder seed
of these varieties.
2.29      The Coconut Research Institute (CRI) has developed high-yielding
dwarf, tall, and hybrid palms and has recently begun to study various systems
of intercropping coconuts. This work is done in association with the Minor
Export Crop Research Station (MECRS) at Matale (para 2.30). CRI is also
investigating the effects of irrigation on coconuts, and of integrating
livestock production with coconut cultivation.
2.30      MECRS at Matale was established under the Department of Minor Export
Crops (DMEC) in 1972. The Station has a sound ongoing research program with
particularly good success in developing techniques for rapid multiplication of
improved varieties of pepper. It has received substantial support from
FAO/UNDP.
2.31      With IDA assistance, GOSL is improving the effectiveness of agricul-
tural extension services in Sri Lanka (Cr. 931-CE). As of January 1, 1980,
production advice for animal husbandry and all crops, except tea and rubber,
was assigned to the Department of Agriculture (DA). All extension staff from
the Coconut Cultivation Board (CCB) and DMEC have been transferred to DA.
Fixed ratios of extension workers to farmers have been established. However,
given the proposed acceleration of the minor export crop program under this
project, the number of extension workers in the Matale would need to be



- 11 -
expanded. The mountaneous terrain where those crops are grown would require
suitable motorized transport for field extension staff.
2.32      Agricultural Input Supplies.  Fertilizer is retailed by multi-purpose
cooperatives, the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) and private traders
approved by the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation (CFC). In addition, CCB sells
mixtures for coconut from four outlets in Puttalam. The retail outlets are
supplied from CFC district stores. A continuing problem has been delays by
CFC in filling orders from retailers. The supply situation should improve
late this year with production from a new urea plant and implementation of the
GOSL Fertilizer Master Plan, administered by the National Fertilizer Secre-
tariat, which aims to reduce the time to fill orders to 72 hours.
2.33      Fertilizer storage conditions are generally poor.  Dunnage is not
used; spilled material is not collected and absorbs atmospheric moisture,
further spoiling undamaged bags. Package sizes are generally too large for
the needs of all but paddy farmers.
2.34      Pesticides and sprayers are marketed by private dealers and DAS.
Pesticide storage is generally superior to that of fertilizers; however, fre-
quently chemicals are not stored in separate rooms, exposing office and shop
workers to fumes. Available sprayers are adequate for field crops and small
trees but unsatisfactory for reaching trees more than 10-12 ft in height.
2.35      Availability of improved seeds and other planting materials varies
among crops. Paddy seed is produced by DA. DA follows the International
Seeds Testing Association's rules and offers readily available good quality
paddy seed. Pulse and other crop seeds sold by DA are also of good quality.
Vegetative planting material such as tea, cocoa, and coffee stock, are produced
by private and government nurseries and the quality is good. Supplies of
planting material for cocoa, coffee, pepper, cashew in Puttalam are adequate
but those for fruit trees below requirements. In Matale, the supply of
planting materials of the minor export crops is inadequate.
2.36      Because of numerous governmental agencies involved in supplying
agricultural inputs and marketing, GOSL in 1978 organized the Agricultural
Development Authority (ADA) to coordinate these functions. ADA is represen-
ted by an Agricultural Manager (AM) residing in each electorate. Currently,
ADA's representation in the project area is limited to three AMs in Puttalam.
2.37      Agricultural Credit.  Institutional agricultural credit is handled
primarily by the two state-owned commercial banks, the People's Bank (PB) and
the Bank of Ceylon (BC). PB operates through Multi-purpose Cooperative
Societies (MPC) and their banking divisions called Rural Banks. BC operates
directly. National agricultural credit policy is established by a Rural
Credit Advisory Board. The Board, is chaired by the Governor of the Central
Bank and consists of representatives of all institutions involved in agri-
culture credit. The Central Banks' Department of Rural Credit (DRC) functions
as the Board secretariat and executive.
2.38      In Puttalam, PB has seven branches servicing seven MPC and 27 Rural
Banks. BC has 17 outlets including its district office. In Matale, PB has a



- 12 -
regional office and eight i  in branches servicing 11 MPCs and 15 Rural Banks;
BC operates through 16 offic,.s. Both banks follow similar credit policies.
Cultivation loans are granted for paddy, 17 other crops, and coconut. The
maximum area financed is 10 ac for paddy, 5 ac for other crops and 25 ac for
coconuts. Loans are granted according to agreed scales for different crops
and agroecological regions. Loans are provided partly in kind (inputs) with
direct payment to suppliers and partly in cash. Loans are also provided for
farm equipment and land development. Production loans are not made for minor
export crops.
2.39      Cultivation loans are for six months for annual crops and five
years for coconut including a two-year grace period. Interest is 9% with
a 5% penalty on overdues. For other types of agricultural loans, interest
rates range from 10% to 14% with repayment periods up to five years. For
cultivation loans the Central Bank provides 100% refinance facilities to both
banks at a concessionary rate of 2%. For medium and long-term loans the
Central Bank provides a 70% r:finance facility at a rediscount rate ranging
from 4% to 9%.
2.40      Inflation in Sri Lanka has risen sharply since 1978 and now is
about 30%. Consequently, agricultural on-lending rates are negative. Current
inflation is largely a result of policy induced price adjustments and short-
term aggregate demand-supply imbalance. Inflation is expected to begin to
decline in 1981, falling to about 10% by 1983. Thus, ceteris paribus, the
interest rates on agriculLural loans should be positive toward the latter half
of the project's disbursement period.
2.41      High default rate on agricultural loans is a problem.  The situation
was aggravated during maha 1977/78 when GOSL instructed the banks to relax
lending criteria. Agricultural lending was then guaranteed up to 75% by the
Central Bank. As of June 1979, the recovery rate of paddy loans in Puttalam
was about 40%, compared to 43% for the country as a whole. The annual volume
of loans for other crops in the district fluctuates widely. As of June 1979,
only 30% of these loans have been recovered. At the same time, the recovery
rate in the Matale on paddy loans was about 64%, and 32% for other crops.
2.42      To improve loan recovery, GOSL in 1979 tightened lending criteria.
It launched an aggressive nationwide recovery drive and established policy
directives that banks should: (a) not lend to defaulters; (b) implement
a vigorous program for the recovery of all overdue loans; (c) formulate their
own lending criteria, giving emphasis to the assessment of creditworthiness of
the potential borrowers; and (d) lend at their own risk without guarantee from
the Central Bank. The overdue position now has improved and not too surpris-
ingly the volume of lending has decreased significantly. The banks are now
embarking on a program of rescheduling loans and field contacts with farmers
in an effort to increase credit volumes.
2.43      Marketing and Processing.  GOSL operates a guaranteed price scheme
(GPS) for paddy and a number of other crops such as pulses and coarse grains.
1/ Responsibility for implementing GPS rests with the Paddy Marketing Board
1/   GOSL pricing policy is discussed in Chapter VI, paras 6.12 to 6.14.



- 13 -
(PMB) which operates mainly through a dispersed network of purchasing centers
run by MPC's. Typically, about 40 to 50% of the paddy produced in the two
districts was sold to PMB, the rest sold to private traders and millers, or
retained for home consumption. However due to changes on GOSL policy, it is
expected that procurements by PMB would diminish in favor of private traders
(para 6.12). Currently, there are 18 PMB stores in the two districts with a
capacity of about 750,000 bushels. Paddy is milled in PMB's own mills and by
private contractors. With assistance of USAID, GOSL is expanding the storage
capacity. Two stores with a total capacity of 100,000 bushels are under
construction in the project area. Marketing of non paddy field crops is
mostly through private channels, which has resulted in wide price fluctua-
tions.
2.44      Most coconut producers sell fresh nuts to village dealers who in
turn sell them to desicated coconut factories or oil mills. A few large
estates make copra to be sold to oil mills. About 45% of coconut production
is consumed domestically; the balance being exported as coconut oil, copra and
desicated coconut. Current capacity of coconut mills in Puttalam is more than
adequate, due to decreases in production during the past several years.
2.45      Minor export crop producers generally sell their products to local
village traders who resell to retailers for local consumption, or to brokers
for exports. Small amounts are sold by smallholders to the Department of
Marketing Development (DMD) to be traded locally.
2.46      Fisheries.  The coastal fishery in Puttalam produces about 17,500 MT
of fish annually for a total landed value of Rs 75 M. This is to about 13% of
the total marine fish harvest in Sri Lanka. The industry employs some 12,000
persons and provides income to approximately 7,000 households. The coastal
fishing fleet, consisting of over 4,400 craft operates from some 40 fishing
centers along the 180 mile coast. The mechanized fishing fleet consists of
1,700 vessels and accounts for two-thirds of total fish landings in the
district.
2.47      Inadequacy of year-round anchorage facilities is a primary cause of
inter and intradistrict migration of fishermen. The major fishing centers
of Kalpitiya, Chilaw and Thoduwawa are located in lagoons or river mouths
which lack proper jetties for unloading catches and servicing vessels.
Seasonally, the formation of sand bars at river mouths and lagoon inlets
prevents the larger boats from utilizing anchorages at these locations.
2.48      Approximately 60% of fish landed in Puttalam district is distributed
fresh for consumption in areas outside the district. Daily supplies to the
major wholesale market in Colombo are estimated at about 20 MT in the dry
season and at 70 MT during the peak seasons of November/December and March/
April. Fish is sold on a consignment basis with Colombo agents collecting
fish from landing centers and in return supplying fishermen with ice, fuel,
and other needed inputs. Linked to this system for fish distribution is the
extension of credit by the Colombo agents to the fishermen.
2.49      Ice requirements for fish preservation exceed daily supplies produced
within the district. Ice is therefore trucked in from Colombo by the wholesale



- 14 -
agents. Control of the ice supply by these agents weakens the bargaining
position of the fishermen. GOSL recently introduced tax concessions to
stimulate private sector investment in ice plants. The response has been
positive and ice production capacity in Puttalam district is expected to
double during 1980. The major impediment towards the establishment of ice
plants in the northern part of the district has been the absence of electric
power, which is being corrected under both this project and the proposed IDA
funded Sixth Power Project of Sri Lanka (Cr. 1048-CE).
2.50      Over 40 boatyards are currently licensed in Sri Lanka.  It is
estimated that the present boatyard capacity is sufficient to accommodate
the foreseen expansion of the fishing fleet in the next five year period.
Engine repair services within the district are provided by a small number of
private sector workshops and itinerant mechanics as well as by the Ceylon
Fishery Harbor Corporation (CFHC). Availability of fishing gear and engine
spare parts has improved notably during the last two years. Distribution of
parts for some brands of outboard engines continues to be a problem. The
Ministry of Fisheries has introduced a national subsidy scheme for promoting
the expansion and mechanization of the fishing fleet. Under this scheme
fishermen are entitled to subsidies of between 24 and 35% on the cost of boat
hulls and engines. Also, the Ministry, in collaboration with commercial
banks, has initiated credit schemes for financing up to 88% of the investment
cost (net of subsidy). In addition, credit is offered for repairs and pur-
chases of fishing gear.
2.51      At the district level, the functions and services of the Ministry
of Fisheries are performed by the District Fisheries Extension staff (30
officers). Principal functions include: promotion and operation of the
boat mechanization program, assistance to fishermen organizations, enforce-
ment of fishery regulations, and collection of statistics. The effectiveness
of the organization is limited by lack of transport facilities, inadequate
office accommodation and residential quarters for staff.
Economic and Social Infrastructure Sectors
2.52      Transport.  Most major towns and urban centers of the two districts
are well served by roads (Map 14949 and 14952) and by regular bus services.
Major towns of Chilaw, Puttalam and Matale are connected to Colombo via the
national rail system. The national road network includes 618 miles in Puttalam
and 525 miles in Matale supervised by the Department of Highways (DH). Most
of these roads are metalled and tarred but because of inadequate maintenance
require rehabilitation and upgrading. Most villages and rural settlements are
connected to the main network by gravelled rural roads, cart, and foot paths
maintained by the Department of Local Government Services (DLGS) in cooperation
with village councils. These roads (about 1,300 miles in Puttalam and 1,100
in Matale) are often not passable in the rainy season. There are areas within
each district in which the road network is quite inadequate. In Puttalam, the
fishing villages along the coast and the northern and northeastern parts of
the district are poorly served. In Matale, the eastern region of Laggala is
only accessible to regular vehicles by a circuitous route which is often
blocked during the rainy season.



- 15 -
2.53      Rural Electrification.  Puttalam is served through two grid sub-
stations fed from the 132 KV National Grid (Map 14949). Matale is connected
to the National Grid at the Habarana Grid Substation and is also served
through grid substations at Eriyagama and Mallawapitiya (Map 14952). Sub-
transmission to district consumers is primarily through 33 KV overhead lines.
The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) provides bulk supply to local authorities
for retail distribution and direct service to industrial consumers. It also
administers 22 rural electrification schemes in Puttalam and 14 in Matale. In
total, there are 7,200 domestic/commercial and 101 industrial consumers in
Puttalam and 4,300 domestic/commercial and 126 industrial consumers in Matale.
Sizeable areas, such as the Kalypitiya peninsula and the northeastern parts of
Puttalam and the eastern parts of Matale, have inadequate service.
2.54      Education and Vocational Training.  Puttalam's education system has
a total of 309 schools of which 109 are primary schools (grades L.K.-5), 161
are junior secondary schools (grades 1-10) and 39 are senior secondary schools
(grades 1-12) (Map 14950). Matale has 284 schools, including 116 primary, 123
junior secondary, and 45 senior secondary schools (Map 14953). Total enroll-
ment is about 97,000 in Puttalam and 80,000 in Matale. Average participation
rates are close to or above the national average: about 75% for ages 6-9, 65%
for ages 10-14, and 20% for ages 15-19. The pupil/teacher ratio is about 25,
which is comparable to the national average. Public education at all levels
is free.
2.55      While the educational system in the districts, under the Regional
Departments of Education (RDE), provides a good general education there is
need for more emphasis on science and technical education to match the needs
of the job market. About 35% of senior secondary students in the two dis-
tricts are enrolled in science course compared to 56% in Colombo and 65% in
Jaffna district. This puts students from these district at a considerable
disadvantage for admission to universities. Facilities for technical educa-
tion in junior secondary schools and for the school leavers vocational train-
ing program are also inadequate. Attracting and retaining qualified teachers
in remote areas is a serious problem. One of the reasons is lack of suitable
housing. Only 65% of the teachers in the two districts are graduate or
trained teachers compared to over 75% in Colombo and Jaffna.
2.56      The Department of Labor (DL), through its Vocational Training
Division (VTD), has a countrywide network of about 300 skill development
centers. These centers are located in areas where there is substantial
demand for such skills. VTD operates five sewing centers in Matale with
capacity to train about 100 persons a year in sewing, cutting, and hand
machine embroidery skills. It has no such skill centers in Puttalam. VTD
operates several tractor driver training centers, but none in the project
area. In Matale, mainly due to the Mahaweli Ganga Project, there is a great
demand for tractor drivers, especially those with some knowledge of simple
tractor maintenance.
2.57      The Department of Small Industries (DSI) is responsible for cottage
industry development. Its main functions are to provide technical advice and
to improve the production techniques of rural craftsmen. In Matale, DSI has
about 20 industrial centers and workshops turning out products and providing



- 16 -
training facilities. There is a huge demand in Sri Lanka for carpenters and
craftsmen due to the heavy migration of skilled workers to the Middle East.
At present, DSI has four carpentry training centers in Matale with a total
capacity to train 60 persons in furniture and construction carpentry.
2.58      Health.  Both districts are served by a network of health insti-
tutions operated by the Department of Health (DOH)(Maps 14950 and 14953).  Thfi
Base Hospital in each district provide specialized services; other units
provide basic medical treatment. The number of institutions and beds are as
follows:
Table 2.4:  CURATIVE HEALTH FACILITIES
Puttalam                 Matale
Type of Institution            Institutions  Beds    Institutions  Beds
Base hospital                       1        348            1        442
District hospital                   4        390            1        125
Peripheral unit                     4        175            6        292
Rural hospital                      3         62            2         36
Maternity homes                     2         24            6         72
Central dispensaries               18         -            14         -
Hospital beds per 1,000 population are 2.35 in Puttalam and 2.72 in Matale
compared to 2.63 for the nation as a whole. Through a system of referrals,
serious cases from smaller institutions are sent to larger institutions by
ambulance service. Preventive health care is organized through four health
units in each district. Family planning services are integrated with maternal
and child health service. Medical services are free except for patients who
choose to be admitted to private wards in specialized hospitals.
2.59      Although the health institutions of the two districts are compar-
able to those for the country as a whole, available health services are
often inadequate to meet inpatient and outpatient demand. There is a severe
shortage of basic equipment. The referral system is often ineffective due to
shortage of ambulances and poor communications. Also, it is difficult to
attract and retain qualified medical personnel to the smaller, more remote
institutions due to inadequate housing and poor equipment.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Approach
3.01      The project would seek to improve the productivity, income and
living standards of people in Matale and Puttalam districts by: improving
the provision of inputs and services required by the agricultural sector;
stimulating increased plantings of coconut and minor export crops; rehabili-
tating and improving the economic infrastructure; and impro;:ing the social



- 17 -
infrastructure. 1/ The project components were identified as high priority
by GOSL as a means to achieve its development objectives (paras 1.09 and
1.10). MPs were actively involved in the identification process.
Detailed Features 2/
A.   Agricultural Sector (Base Cost US$12.65 M)
3.02      The project would promote agricultural activities in the two dis-
tricts by accelerating existing programs for coconut, and minor export crops
development; supporting sericulture and fisheries; improving supplies of
agricultural inputs and agricultural credit; expanding forestry development;
and strengthening services for livestock production.
3.03      Coconut Development in Puttalam District (Base cost US$1.25 M).
The project would:
(a)  improve the productivity of about 10,000 ac of established
privately owned coconut plantations by improvements in
drainage, flood protection and water conservation;
(b)  rehabilitate by underplanting and/or planting about 7,500 ac
of privately owned plantations;
(c)  intercrop about 1,700 ac with coffee, cocoa and pepper;
(d)  establish a five-acre CRI substation, to study the techniques
and economics of intercropping, and of supplementary irriga-
tion;
(e)  supplement the facilities of CCB by constructing a district
office building and providing additional staff, quarters,
and equipment; and
(f)  establish a nursery for fruit tree seedlings to be used for
intercropping coconuts.
The coconut development program would be carried out by CCB with the exception
of the adaptive research farm (303 (c)) under CRI, and nursery (3.03 (f))
would be the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture (DA). Intercrop-
ping (3.03 (c)) would be carried out by CCB in close coordination with the
Department of Minor Exports Crops (DMEC). Activities (a), (b) and (c) would
1/   Limited funding also provided for Kurunegala district to facilitate
implementation of water management programs and project coordination
and management in Kurunegala RDP (Cr. 891-CE). (See paras 3.18, 3.19
and 5.06.)
2/   Unless otherwise specified, the Project Components described in this
report involves both districts; Matale and Puttalam.



- 18 -
be supported by GOSL paid subsidies to growers amounting up to Rs 300/ac in
the case of (a), Rs 2,275/ac in the case of (b), and between Rs 1,375/ac to
Rs 1,875/ac for (c) depending upon the intercrop. Cost details on the coconut
program in Annex 1, Table 2. A discussion of the subsidy is in paras 6.15 and
6.16. Growers would also be eligible for credit to intensify use of fertil-
izer (para 3.06 and Annex 2).
3.04      Minor Export Crop Development in Matale District (Base Cost
US$1.83 M). The project would benefit minor export crop growers through
programs to:
(a) plant or replant pure stands of cocoa, cardamon, pepper, cof-
fee, clove, and nutmeg on about 7,600 ac of privately owned
land and plant or replant minor export crops on about
290 ac in small homegardens;
(b) establish a 20 ac Central Nursery to provide improved minor
export crop planting material free to project participants.
DMEC would procure planting stocks from the commercial nur-
series equivalent to that required for its ongoing program;
(c) strengthen the research capabilities of MECRS by funding
research on: cardamom; pest and disease control; cocoa
fermentation; and processing of minor export crops. Over-
seas study tours would also be funded;
(d) establish a Training Center, near MECRS, for instructing
DMEC and CCB staff, DA extension workers, and farmers on
cultivation and processing of minor export crops;
(e) supplement the capabilities of DMEC by: constructing a
district office building and additional staff quarters, and
providing equipment and staff; and
(f) strengthen DA's extension service capability by providing 30
Village Level Extension Officers (KVS), seven Agricultural
Instructors (AI) and transport.
The minor export crop development would be implemented by DMEC with the
exception of (f) above which would be the responsibility of DA. Activities
in 3.04(a) would be supported by GOSL subsidy paid to growers varying between
Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,750/ac depending upon the intercrop. Cost details on the
minor export crops program are in Annex 1, Table 3; and, General Procedures
for Small Homegarden Subsidy Scheme are in Annex 3. A discussion of the
justification of the subsidy is in para 6.15 and 6.16. Growers would also be
eligible for credit in addition of the subsidy (para 3.06 and Annex 2).
3.05      Sericulture in Matale District (Base Cost US$0.31 M).  The project
would finance a nucleus estate and settlement scheme for about 125 settler
families. By December 31, 1980, GOSL would submit to IDA a SAPDA prepared
developmental and operational plan for this component. IDA's acceptance of
the plan would be a prerequisite to constructing facilities and settlement.



- 19 -
In general, it is envisioned that each settler would be allocated 2 ac of land
for mulberry growing and 1/2 ac houseplot on which to build their houses and
silkworm rearing sheds, and for growing fruits and vegetables for home con-
sumption. SAPDA would establish and operate a 50 ac nucleus estate, which
would serve as a training and demonstration center for the settlers and house
the advisory and supervisory staff required for the operation. SAPDA would
provide the settlers with free mulberry cuttings as required, and third
in-star silkworms required during the first year. It would also provide each
farmer with the equivalent of Rs 2,000 in construction materials for building
each the silkworm rearing shed and the settlers house. SAPDA would purchase
the cocoons produced by the settlers, at a pre-determined guaranteed price,
for reeling in Sri Lanka or for export. During the first year, the settlers
would clear the land and establish mulberry plantations, for which they would
be paid standard daily wages. They would have additional employment opportu-
nities in the establishment of the nucleus estate until they have sufficient
mulberry leaves on which to begin rearing their first batch of silkworms.
From the second year onwards, they would be eligible for institutional credit
support for their operation (para 3.06). Sri Lanka has a long history of
socially and commercially successful settlement schemes. Land ownership and
titles would follow the pattern established by these schemes, and more re-
cently, followed under the Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga development program.
SAPDA would execute this component. Cost details of the sericulture program
are in Annex 1, fable 4.
3.06      Agricultural Credit (Base Cost US$5.91).  The project would expand
the volume of lending for agricultural development through refinancing short-
and medium-term loans made by the People's Bank (PB) and the Bank of Ceylon
(BC). Credit would be provided to help farmers take advantage of the agri-
cultural sector components described above, and in addition for:
(a) short-term (seasonal - 6 months) production loans to farmers
for paddy and other field crops. It is expected that the
cropped area benefitting by institutional credit would in-
crease from about 2,100 ac at present to 8,000 ac at the
end of five-year period in Matale, and from about 1,500 ac
to 4,850 ac in Puttalam;
(b) medium-term (up to 5 years) loans to coconut growers to
enable farmers to increase fertilizer use. It is expected
that institutional credit would be given for about 27,000 ac;
(c) long-term (up to 10 years) loans to minor export crop
growers to enable farmers to cover installation cost not
covered by the subsidy payment. It is expected that insti-
tutional credit would be given for about 5,600 ac;
(d) medium-term (up to 5 years) loans to farmers, custom opera-
tors and cooperatives for purchase of about 75 four-wheeled
and 150 two-wheeled tractors in each district. Loans would
also be provided for hand sprayers, hand tools; and other
equipment;



- 20 -
(e) medium-term (up to 5 years) loans to settlers for buying
silkworm rearing trays;
(f)  medium-term (up to 5 years) loans to NPCS to purchase
about 20 five ton trucks in Matale and 15 five ton trucks
in Puttalam;
(g) long-term (up to 10 years) loans for farmers and farmer
groups for about 20 deep and about 100 shallow tubewells
in Puttalam (para 3.21);
(h) long-term (10 years) loans to MPCS and private enterpreneurs
for building about 25 fertilizer stores in Matale and 15 in
Puttalam; and
(i) long-term (10 years) loans to settlers for building about
125 silkworm rearing sheds in Matale.
3.07      The project would strengthen the drive launched by PB and BC to
recover or otherwise settle about Rs 9.7 M in loans presently overdue in
Matale and about Rs 15.1 M overdue in Puttalam.  GOSL would furnish to IDA
by December 31, 1980 information from the two banks on: (a) an inventory of
defaulters; (b) analysis and classification of their portfolio (based on
assessments of farmers' income levels, farmers' earlier payment records, and
loan rescheduling when necessary); and (c) a program of collections against
willful defaulters, including legal actions,-similar to those being carried
out in Kurunegala RDP. The project would also finance study tours for bank
field staffs to neighboring countries.
3.08      Lending terms and conditions for loans to be financed under the
project are shown in Annex 2 and cost details in Annex 1, Table 5. PB and
BC would execute this component. A subsidiary loan agreement specifying the
agricultural credit procedures to be followed under the project would be
signed between the GOSL and the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon in terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Execution of such agreement with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.09      Other Agriculture Supporting Services (Base Cost US$0.57 M).  The
project would improve agricultural input services by:
(a) expanding the capacity of four retail fertilizer outlets
in each district, and by providing dunnage for all fertilizer
stores (20) at Agrarian Service Centers (ASO);
(b) improving paddy seed stores at 17 ASC (seven in Matale and
10 in Puttalam);
(c) remodeling pesticide storerooms at 20 ASC;
(d) providing additional management, executive staff and office
facilities for the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS); and



- 21 -
(e) supplying additional staff and equipment to ADA to station
Agricultural Managers in the four electorates in Matale and
the two unserviced electorates in Puttalam. 1/
Except for (e) to be administered by ADA, DAS would execute this component.
Cost details are in Annex 1, Table 6.
3.10      Livestock (Base Cost US$0.28 M).  The project would improve livestock
services by:
(a) constructing, equipping and staffing new veterinary clinics
in Anamaduwa and Andigama (Puttalam) Galewela and Hettipola
(Matale), and upgrading three existing clinics in Puttulam
and one in Matale. In addition, simple cattle and buffalo
handling facilities would be installed at about 25 locations
in each district; and
(b) providing artificial insemination services to upgrade cattle
and buffalo stock in Matale district.
The livestock component would be executed by the Department of Animal
Production, and Health. Cost details are in Annex 1, Table 7.
3.11      Forestry (Base Cost US$2.00 M).  The project would accelerate an
ongoing program of reforestation of degraded and overexploited chena lands in
both districts; and afforestation on steep and high elevation grasslands
(patana lands), degraded tea plantations and catchment areas of the Mahaweli
Ganga Project in Matale. Under the project, timber, pulpwood and fuelwood
species would be planted on about 11,500 ac in Matale district and on about
5,000 ac in Puttalam. The project would provide three additional forest
nurseries (two in Matale, one in Puttalam), incremental materials, equipment,
labor, technical and supervisory staff. The Department of Forests would
execute this component. Cost details are shown in Annex 1, Table 8.
Fisheries in Puttulam District (Base Cost of US$0.50 M).
3.12      Emphasis would be on improving landing and shore facilities at major
fishing centers in Puttulam. To ensure safer and quicker access from the sea
to landing centers, the project would install beacon lights at 12 selected
locations along the district coast. Local government authorities in coordi-
nation with the Welfare Division of the Ministry of Fisheries would be
responsible for installing the beacon lights. The project would provide for
the construction of jetties at Chilaw, Kalpitiya and at a site yet to be
identified under the supervision of Ceylon Fishery Harbors Corporation (CFHC).
1/   To be funded only by the project following independent evaluation of
ADA's operation in Kurunegla RDP. GOSL would supply IDA with terms
of reference for this evaluation by December 31, 1980.



- 22 -
3.13      The project would provide for the establishment of a fishery service
center at a site to be determined, to serve as a demonstration of the effec-
tiveness of such a facility in improving the fishery industry. The main
function of this facility would be to make available to fisherman and traders
a local supply of ice as well as providing space for sale and service of
fishing equipment and supplies. All commercial activities would be by private
entrepreneurs with management of the facility by an organization satisfactory
to IDA. This center would be located at a site offering all year landing faci-
lities and capable of generating minimum levels of ice sales and fish storage
demand necessary to support satisfactory net cash flows required for financing
the operation and maintenance of the facility. GOSL would provide IDA a
detailed feasibility study, including design of the facility, economic analysis
and operational and management program prior to any commitment leading to the
installation of this facility under the project.
3.14      This component would be executed by the Ministry of Fisher-
ies. To improve their effectiveness in the district,, the project would provide
for the construction of one office building and one residential staff quarter
each in Puttalam town and Mahawewa. In addition, the project would provide for
transport, and a patrolboat. Cost details on this component are in Annex 1,
Table 9.
B.   Water Resources Sector (Base Cost US$9.09 M)
3.15      Irrigation and Water Management (Base Cost US$8.31).  The project
would improve delivery of water to about 27,220 ac (19,750 ac maha and 7,470
ac yala) of currently irrigated lands and increase the area irrigated by
about 18,050 ac (6,770 ac maha and 11,280 ac yala) through rehabilitation and
improvement of existing irrigation systems. The project would provide for
rehabilitating about 15 major schemes (10 in Puttalam and 5 in Matale--Annex
1, Tables 10b, c, d, and e) and 240 minor schemes (200 in Puttalam and 40 in
Matale) 1/. The Irrigation Department (ID) would be responsible for planning,
designing and constructing all rehabilitated schemes as well as operation and
maintenance (O&M) of major schemes. The Department of Agrarian Services (DAS)
in cooperation with the concerned farmer group would be responsible for the O&M
of minor schemes. Cost details for this component are in Annex 1, Table 10.
3.16      Individual schemes would be planned and designed in accordance with
ID specifications, following criteria and guidelines agreed with IDA (Annex 4).
At least 75% of the minor irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated would be
located in the dry zone in each district, with the remainder located in the
intermediate zone. Particular attention would be given to improving water
management. GOSL would employ local consultants to assist ID in planning,
designing, and preparing cost estimates for irrigation and water management
schemes (para 3.19): Assurance has been obtained from GOSL that, the plans,
designs, and cost estimates, for two major and six minor schemes in Matale
and three major and nine minor schemes in Puttalam would be submitted to IDA
for review and approval prior to construction of any civil works under this
component.
1/   Major schemes command 200 ac or more, whereas minor schemes command less
than 200 ac.



- 23 -
3.17      Rehabilitation of civil works would include:  (a) strengthening of
tank bunds and repairs to sluices, spillway and anicut structures; (b) desilt-
ing, re-sectioning and improving main canals and distributaries; (c) repairing,
and resectioning embankments, and gravelling the top of those embankments used
as farm and access roads--including required drainage structures; (d) construct-
ing additional cross regulators, regulators-cum-bridges, drainage outlet struc-
tures, culverts, silt traps, etc.; (e) installing measuring devices in the
main canals, head regulators, and distributaries to measure discharges as well
as evaluate the seepage losses; (f) installing turnouts of suitable size, and
control gates in the distributaries; and (h) rehabilitating farm and field
ditches with appropriate structures to facilitate water management program
including rotational distribution of irrigation water. GOSL intends to under-
take a portion (about 25%) of the required earthwork, especially in the dis-
tribution system, for rehabilitating irrigation scheme by utilizing farmer
donated labor or manpower available through the Food for Work Program suppor-
ted by grants of foodgrain from the World Food Programme. In such schemes,
the project would provide the required structures. Earthwork constructed in
such schemes would be under the technical supervision of ID and would meet ID
specifications. Labor intensive techniques would be employed for constructing
most civil works although a limited amount of construction equipment would be
provided. On project completion, usable equipment would remain within the
project area for O&M of irrigation schemes. Project would provide additional
staff and equipment for ID.
3.18      As of January 1, 1980, the Agrarian Services Act (No. 58), assigned
responsibility for minor irrigation schemes to DAS. Under this Act, DAS can
spend up to Rs 100,000 on improving these schemes. Since the cost of rehabili-
tating most minor schemes under this project would exceed this amount, GOSL
has assigned ID the responsibility for planning and constructing all minor
schemes to be rehabilitated under the project, however, DAS in conjunction
with the concerned farmer group would prepare the operational program as input
to the ID prepared plan. Following rehabilitation these minor schemes would
be turned over to DAS for O&M. However, ID would be responsible for maintain-
ing tank bunds, anicut and ancillary structures for two years following rehabi-
litation. DAS is proposing a major reorganization of its minor irrigation
activities in the context of the proposed national Village Tanks Rehabilita-
tion Project (VTRP) recently appraised by an IDA mission. The changes envis-
aged include the setting up of six regional centers for minor irrigation, each
under a qualified engineer; the separation of water management from the
ongoing maintenance activities of the department; the evolution of a syste-
matic approach to the planning of water management and related programs in
minor schemes; the strengthening of elected farmer representatives and farmer
groups for carrying out such programs; and the establishment of regular DAS
supervision to ensure that the agreed programs are in fact implemented. Given
staffing and other constraints, it will take time for these changes to become
fully effective. It is envisioned that DAS-adopted techniques and procedures
for the proposed VTRP will be appropriately incorporated in this project as
they become available. The project would provide DAS with additional staff,
training and equipment to carry out its newly acquired responsibilities under
the 1980 Act. Since this Act was passed after the effective date of Kurunegala



- 24 -
RDP (Cr. 891-CE), funds are provided also in this project for DAS to carry out
its minor scheme responsibilities in Kurunegala district.
3.19      Because of the skilled personnel requirements of the Mahaweli Ganga
Project and the drain of trained personnel to the Middle East, ID is having
difficulty in providing staff to meet its obligations under the Kurunegala
RDP. Hence, ID has been unable to adequately prepare required plans, design,
and cost estimates for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes while at the
same time maintaining adequate quality control during construction and provid-
ing personnel to properly operate rehabilitated schemes. Since this project
could experience similar difficulties, GOSL has agreed to: (a) pay overtime
and release constraints on travel allowances for ID personnel assigned to the
project; and (b) employ local water resources consultants to plan and design
many of the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated in this project as well as
for Kurunegala RDP. These consultants would be under the supervision of ID.
This action would permit ID to focus on quality control during construction
and effective operation and maintenance of project schemes. Appointment of
planning consultants would begin about November 1, 1980. Schedule of appoint-
ments would permit final planning and design by March 31, 1981 of all schemes
scheduled for rehabilitation during 1981. Local consultants would also be
used to supervise construction of seven major schemes in Puttalam. Terms of
Reference for these consultants are in Annex 5. Following is the breakdown of
consulting services estimated to be required for this component:
Total Estimated
Consulting Services                 Man/Months
Planning Engineers                     162
Irrigation Engineers                   169
Design Engineers                       166
Economists                              33
Agriculturalists                        56
Technical Assistants                   500
Construction Engineers                  28
Inspectors                             148
Total                           1,262
3.20      Groundwater Exploration and Exploitation in Puttalam District (Base
Cost US$0.34 M). The project would strengthen field investigations and
advisory capabilities of the Water Resources Board (WRB) in Puttalam district
by providing additional staff, facilities, and equipment. It also would
finance the drilling of about 60 investigation boreholes and about the same
number of six and eight inch test wells. This exploration program has been
coordinated with, and is an expansion of, the groundwater investigation
program being funded by United Kingdom's Overseas Development Ministry. The
borehole drilling program would be started during fiscal year 1982 to permit
utilization of drilling equipment financed under the Kurunegla RDP (Cr.
891-CE). This component would be executed by WRB. International training
would be provided under the project for at least two engineers/ geologists,
two technicians and two drillers.
3.21      The project would include a program for limited exploitation of the
most promising groundwater areas identified in the course of investigations.



- 25 -
About 100 shallow fractional tubewells (STW) would be installed in the
coastal plain of the Kalpitiya Peninsula and about 20 deep tubewells (DTWs) in
the Vanathavillu and Madurankuli-Palavi basin (para 2.11). These wells would
be installed by farmers and farmer groups with assistance of project funded
credit (para 3.06). Assurance has been obtained from GOSL that it would
provide to IDA for its review, plans for DTWs groundwater exploitation once
the investigation phase is completed and prior to implementation. Cost
details on this component are in Annex 1, Table 11.
3.22      Rural Water Supply (Base Cost US$0.44 M).  The project would
install about 100 wells in Matale and 150 in Puttalam in rural areas defi-
cient in drinking water. Attempts also will be made to rehabilitate aban-
doned wells. Water quality analysis would be made on about 5% of the wells
surveyed. Preference would be given to water deficient areas where organized
community groups are willing to provide free labor for at least 25% of total
unskilled labor requirements.
3.23      The wells would be closed and fitted with handpumps (UNICEF speci-
fications) to meet minimum requirements for safe drinking water and would be
sited in accordance with criteria agreed for the Kurunegla RDP (Cr. 891-CE).
The National Water Supply and Drainage Board would construct the wells and
install the handpumps. GOSL has assigned maintenance responsibility for the
handpumps and wells to local authorities under the supervision of the Depart-
ment of Local Government Services (DLGS), which would also execute this com-
ponent. Cost details on this component are in Annex 1, Table 12.
C.   Economic Infrastructure Sector (Base Cost US$4.57 M)
3.24      Roads (Base Cost US$3.77).  About 144 mi of public feeder roads
would be rehabilitated under the project (about 33 mi of agricultural roads,
and 28 mi of fishery roads, Puttalam; and about 83 mi of agricultural roads in
Matale district) and about 7 mi of new roads in Matale would be constructed to
shorten about 2 hours travel time between Matale town and the isolated Lagalla
electorate. Location of roads to be rehabilitated are shown on Maps 14949
and 14952. Rehabilitation would include graveling (except for steep areas
subject to erosion, low areas subject to flooding, and segments in fishery
villages, which would be metalled and tarred) and installation of minor
drainage structures (24 inches or less in diameter). The roads would be
built up to class "D" standards with 50 ft wide right-of-way, 24 ft platform
and 12 ft roadway and about 3 inches of compacted gravel surfacing. Labor
intensive construction methods would be emphasized although a limited amounts
of equipment would be provided to the Department of Highways (DH) for both
road rehabilitation and maintenance. This equipment would be assigned to DH
in Matale and Puttalam and would remain in these districts upon completion of
the project to be used by DH for maintenance of the public road system.
3.25      The project would also upgrade about 175 mi of cart and foot paths--
100 mi in Puttulam and about 75 mi in Matale. These upgraded roads would be
gravelled with 8-10 ft carriageways with drainage structures limited to 24
inch diameter. Construction would be by the DH; but subsequent maintenance



- 26 -
would be the responsibility of DLGS. A small amount of equipment is provided
under the project for DLGS to augment labor intensive maintenance practices on
these rural roads.
3.26      The project provides engineering and supervisory personnel, labor,
materials and equipment to improve DH capability to carry out a accelerated
road maintenance program in the two districts. Each year DH would prepare an
annual work program (para 5.09) for road maintenance in the two districts that
would specify road segments to receive accelerated road maintenance; descrip-
tion of maintenance work to be undertaken; and estimated cost. Cost details
on this component to be executed by DH are in Annex 1, Table 13.
3.27      Rural Electrification (Base Cost US$0.80 M).  The project would
provide electricity to ten village areas that have potential for rapid econo-
mic growth of the region. In Puttalam, five fishing village areas would be
electrified (Map 14949). These schemes are necessary for the overall economic
development-of fishing industry. Three of the villages, Kandakuli, Talaivilla
and Udappuwa would draw their power from 33 kv lines financed by IDA under
Sixth Power Project (Cr. 1048-CE). In Matale, the project provides for
electrificication of five village areas (Map 14952). Works would involve
construction of about 31 mi of 33 kv line, 1 mi of 11 kv line, 12 substations
and about 37 mi of low tension line. The rural electrification component
would be carried out by the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), which also would
operate the schemes. Cost details on this component are in Annex 1, Table 14.
D.   Social Infrastructure Sector (Base Cost US$2.27 M)
3.28      Health (Base Cost US$1.03 M).  The project's health component would
be executed by the Department of Health and would provide: (a) construction
of a new operating theater and surgical ward at district hospital in Puttalam
town, a new operating clinic unit at district hospital in Dankotuwa, and a new
outpatient unit at base hospital Matale town; (b) provision of basic surgical,
laboratory, and other equipment to these new facilities and other hospitals;
(c) construction of living quarters for 5 medical officers, 6 Assistant
Medical Practitioners, 13 midwives, and 8 nurses; (d) provision of 6 ambu-
lances for outlying institutions; and (e) provision of electrical connections
with existing lines, for 5 hospitals; 6 water pumps, and 20 refrigerators for
the outlying hospitals.
3.29      Sites for new quarters have been selected; quarters would be of
the standard design used by the Ministry of Health. Preliminary designs for
the new hospital facilities at district hospitals in Puttalam town and
Dankotuwa have been prepared. Supervision of construction undertaken by
private contractors would be the responsibility of the Buildings Department.
Equipment lists have been finalized. Ambulances would be the standard van
type except for two locations where a four-wheel drive vehicle are required.
The project provides funds for additional staff, required for the new district
hospital facilities in Puttalam town and base hospital in Matale town and for
operating the new ambulances. Cost details on this component are in Annex 1,
Table 15.



- 27 -
3.30      Education and Vocational Training (Base Cost US$1.24 M).  The
education subcomponent to be executed by the Regional Department of Education
(RDE) is designed to improve science, agricultural and technical training in
the public school system; to attract and keep qualified teachers in more
remote areas, and to upgrade selected senior secondary schools. The project
would provide for:
(a)  constructing of about 49 science rooms for junior secondary
schools and provision of basic science equipment for these
rooms and existing science units;
(b)  constructing five workshops (for teaching carpentry, metalwork,
weaving, and other technical subjects), 14 agriculture units,
and seven home science units and provision of basic equipment for
these specialized units. These facilities and equipment would
be utilized both by regular classes and the School Leavers
Program (part-time evening and weekend training for school
dropouts);
(c)  constructing of about 80 teacher's quarters to serve schools
in remote areas;
(d)  upgrading six senior secondary schools in Puttalam to IA
status (comprehensive senior secondary school), having
facilities for science laboratories, agriculture and
home science units workshops, libraries and hostels;
(e)  procuring simple science equipment and teaching aids (costing
about Rs 4,000 per set) to about 140 primary schools;
(f)  procuring a jeep and motorcycles, and supplying additional
staff to supervise construction of facilities in both dis-
tricts; and
(g)  constructing 60 water supply wells at school locations in
remote areas following UNICEF specifications.
A preliminary list of sites for construction of buildings has been prepared.
Priority for final selection would be given to schools with inadequate facil-
ities, highly motivated staff, and located in more remote areas. Contracts
for constructing facilities would be awarded to local private contractors.
Buildings would be of standard design used by the Ministry of Education. All
construction would be supervised by the School Workers Division of the Mini-
stry of Education. Equipment lists for science classes, agriculture, home
science, and primary schools have been finalized. Equipment lists for other
technical education would be finalized by October 1980; wherever possible,
equipment would be chosen which can be used for both technical education
classes and the School Leavers Program. In order to ensure that new rooms
and equipment are effectively utilized, RDE in each district would conduct
seminars for all teachers who would use project facilities and equipment.



- 28 -
3.31      The project would also expand vocational training facilities in
Matale by:
(a) expanding the capacity of the Department of Labor's (DL)
sewing centers from 100 students in a one year training
program to 200 students in a six month training program
by establishing five additional sewing centers, one in
each electorate.
(b) setting up a tractor driver training program on land to be
provided by DL in Dambulla electorate. The course would
be run by DL; its aim would be to provide basic training in
tractor and implement operation and routine maintenance.
Each course would last for approximately one month, train
about 20 students, and employ a syllabus prepared by DL's
Vocational Training Division.
(c) expanding the training capacity of carpentry training
centers run by the Department of Small Industries from
60 to 90 students a year. The project would provide
for the expansion of the M.C. Road Carpentry Center in
Matale town, the establishment of a new center at Galawela,
and additional equipment and tools for the center at
Nagolla.
Cost details on this component are in Annex 1, Table 16.
E.   Project Coordination and Management (Base Cost US$1.33 M).
3.32      Project management arrangements are discussed in Chapter V.
Management items provided under the project include (cost details in Annex 1,
Table 17):
(a) additional staff, quarters, vehicles, office equipment
and supplies for project coordination and management in
Matale and Puttalam, as well as for the Regional Deve-
lopment Division (RDD) and Accounting Unit in the
Ministry of Plan Implementation (MPI) in Colombo. A
project office building would be constructed in Puttalam
town and an existing government building would be reno-
vated as the project office in Matale town;
(b) technical assistance in the form of local supervisory
consultants (para 5.06) would be provided to assist
Project Directors (PD) and RDD in supervising and
monitoring progress and quality of work, preparing
reports, processing of reimbursement applications and
general budget control; and
(c) fund for employing a local research institutions or
consultants to evaluate the project.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditures
4.01      Total project cost over the five year project period (January 1981
to December 1985) is estimated at about US$50.0 equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of about US$17.0 or about 34%. Estimates are based on
January 1980 prices and include about US$1.5 M in import taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies amounting to 8% of base cost are included. Price
contingencies are estimated to be 60% of base cost in accordance with infla-
tion rates as follows: for equipment and vehicles, 10.5% during 1980, 9%
during 1981, 8% during 1982, and 7% during 1984 and thereafter and for civil
works and other local costs, 30% and 21% during 1980 for civil works and other
local costs respectively and 15% during 1981, 12% during 1982 and 10% during
1983 and thereafter. Estimated project costs detailed in Annex 1 are sum-
marized below (Table 4.1).
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Cost                                     % of
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
----Rs M)            --- US$ M--------
1.  Civil Works             126.19   37.92   164.11   8.09   2.43    10.52    21
2.  Crop and Forestry
Dev /a                44.55    5.60    50.15   2.86   0.36        3.22      7
3. Equipment &
Vehicles               5.45   56.98    62.43   0.35   3.65        4.00      8
4. Crop Production
Loans                 29.95   18.25    48.20   1.92   1.17        3.09      6
5.  Loan for Farm
Equipment and
Vehicles              13.77   27.70    41.47   0.88   1.78        2.66      5
6.  Technical Assistance   20.09    6.41    26.50   1.29   0.41          1.70     3
7. Supervision and
Administration        54.52   19.14    73.66   3.49   1.23        4.72      9
Base Cost              294.52  172.00   466.52  18.88  11.03    29.91    59
Physical Contingencies       23.31   12.49    35.80   1.49   0.80        2.29     5
Price Contingencies         197.03   80.81   277.84  12.63   5.18    17.81    36
Total Cost /b          514.86  265.30   780.16  33.00  17.01    50.01   100
/a   Includes subsidies for coconut, minor export crops and sericulture for
US$1.48 M.
/b   Includes about US$1.5 M equivalent in import taxes and duties.



- 30 -
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$33.5 M would finance the full foreign
exchange costs and about 53% of the local costs or about 67% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties. The PB and BC would contribute about
US$1.34 M equivalent from their own resources for financing part of the agri-
cultural credit requirements under the project. About US$0.76 M equivalent
would be contributed by farmers as free labor for rehabilitating minor irriga-
tion schemes and by departmental staff as down payment for loans to purchase
vehicles. GOSL would finance the remaining US$14.4 M equivalent from its
budgetary resources. Net of receipts from import taxes and duties on project
items, the GOSL contribution would amount to about 29% of the total project
cost. The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
Farmers &    IDA %
Item                       Total Cost   IDA   GOSL   PB/BC  Dep. Staff  of Total
-(U______------------(US$ M)----------------------
1.  Civil Works                10.52    8.41   1.68       -        0.43        80
2.  Crop and Forestry Dev       3.22    2.10   1.12       -          -         65
3.  Equipment & Vehicles        4.00    3.39   0.58       -        0.03        85
4.  Crop Production Loans       3.09    2.00   1.09       -           -        65
5.  Loans for Farm Equip-
ment & Vehicles           2.66    2.13  (0.27)   0.80           -         80
6.  Technical Assistance        1.70    1.70    -         -          -        100
7.  Supervision and
Administration           4.72    0.33   4.39       -           -          7
8.  Contingencies              20.10   13.44   5.82   ,0.54        0.30        65
Total             50.01   33.50  14.41    1.34         0.76       68
Procurement
4.03      Equipment and vehicles with an estimated cif cost of about US$2.50 M
(net of contingencies) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15%
of the cif price of imported goods or the import duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Because
of the relatively small quantities, the low unit costs, and the need for country
wide standardization of much of the educational and health equipment, it would
be impractical to call for tenders on a project basis for these items. Accord-
ingly project requirements (cif cost US$0.4 M, net of contingencies) would be
combined with national requirements and be acquired under GOSL's procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. Due to strong consumer preference, motorized
bicycles and bicycles which would be purchased individually by departmental



- 31 -
staff. 1/  Small off-the-counter items costing less than US$10,000 each, which
cannot be bulked into packages suitable for international tendering, or items
needed urgently for project implementation would be procured by prudent shop-
ping, which involves comparing prices from no less than three independent
suppliers. Procurement exceeding US$100,000 require IDA's prior review. The
aggregate amount of non ICB procurement would not exceed the equivalent of
US$1.40 M.
4.04      Because most civil works would be labor intensive, relatively small,
seasonal, and scattered over a wide area, it would not be practical to group
them into contracts of suitable size for ICB. Therefore, the civil works
under the project would be constructed by domestic contractors, and when
unavailable by force account.
4.05      Tree crop plantings and related activities for coconut and minor
export crop development would be undertaken by the beneficiaries on the basis
of GOSL set subsidy rates and regulations using family and/or hired labor and
purchasing inputs through normal commercial channels.  Forestry development
and part of the sericulture work would be undertaken using force account by DF
and SAPDA or through award of small unit-cost contracts with petty contractors.
4.06      Purchase of farm inputs, equipment and vehicles financed by agri-
cultural credit would be purchased by the sub-borrower through normal commer-
cial channels. A sufficient number of local dealerships and agencies and a
wide range of appropriate equipment are available to ensure competitive
prices.
4.07      Consultants services (paras 3.19 and 5.06) financed under the
project would be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
4.08      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 80% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 50% of subsidies paid by GOSL to farmers and private estates
for coconuts and minor export crops development;
(c) 100% of the labor costs involved in sericulture and forestry
programs;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory; or 80% of expenditures for equipment and
vehicles procured locally;
1/   Procedure would be same as for Kurunegala RDP, whereby GOSL makes
medium-term loan available to officials, who in turn purchase motor-
cycles, motorized bicycle or bicycle from local dealer. The official
would repay loan from government travel allowance for official business.



- 32 -
(e) 50% of short-term cultivation loans disbursed by BC and PB
in excess of Rs 4.6 M (Rs 3.0 M in Matale and Rs 1.6 M in
Puttalam) per calendar year;
(f) 80% of loans disbursed by BC and PB for coconut and minor
export crops development, agricultural equipment and
vehicles, tubewell development, fertilizer stores and silk-
worm rearing sheds;
(g) 100% of salaries of additional staff for road maintenance
and rehabilitation works during 1981, 1982 and 1983, and
50% thereafter; and
(h) 100% of the cost of technical assistance.
Disbursements for items (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (g) would be made against
statements of expenditures, documentation for which would be audited and
retained for review by IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements
would be made against full documentation. The Project Director (PD) would be
responsible for the initial preparation of IDA reimbursement applications and
submit these reimbursements to the accounting unit in the Ministry of Plan
Implementation. This unit would maintain budget control for the project and
following review by the supervisory consultants (para 5.06), it would forward
the applications to IDA for reimbursement (para 5.05). It is anticipated that
final disbursements for the project would be made by June 30, 1986, about six
months after the end of project implementation. Estimated disbursement sche-
dule is shown in Annex 1, Table 18.
4.09      Retroactive financing 1/ of up to US$1 M is proposed for eligible
project expenditures incurred from June 30, 1980 onwards.
Accounts and Audits
4.10      Budgetary allocations for the project would be included in the
budget of MPI the lead agency for the project. MPI would, in turn, release
the funds to the implementing agencies through the two PDs (para 5.01).
Each implementing agency would be allowed to make payments and claim reim-
bursements from the PD for staff salaries and allowances, on contracts and
sundry purchases in line with GOSL's departmental limits for the local heads
of implementing agencies for ongoing district programs. All other payments
would be settled directly by the PD after receipt of certified documents
from the implementing agencies. The PDs would consolidate accounts from
the various agencies and submit them to the accounting unit in MPI. The
unit would consolidate the accounts for the two districts and after audit
would submit these to GOSL and to IDA (para 5.05). The audit report would
include, inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by IDA
1/   Limited to technical assistance, equipment, civil works under the
Project Coordination and Management Component, and civil and field
works associated with nurseries.



- 33 -
against statements of expenditures had been used for the purpose for which
they were provided. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that all agencies
involved in project implementation would prepare and maintain separate ac-
counts and the Ministry of Plan Implementation would prepare and maintain
consolidated accounts for the project, and such accounts, together with
disbursement documents, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Implementation Responsibility
5.01      The MPI would be the lead agency for the project.  The project
components would be implemented by existing government agencies and depart-
ments (Annex 6). MPI has appointed a full time PD with the rank of Addi-
tional Government Agent for each district. The experience, qualifications,
functions and responsibilities of these appointees are acceptable to IDA.
These PDs would be responsible to MPI for carrying out the provisions of the
project in accordance with agreed criteria, procedures and specifications,
and would work under the general supervision of the Government Agent/District
Secretary (GA) and the District Minister (DM). The PD's responsibilities
would include: (a) preparation of annual work programs and budgets in col-
laboration with the implementing agencies; (b) updating five-year work plan
and budget; (c) release of funds and payments for project expenditures; (d)
maintenance of consolidated district accounts; (e) assembly of annual audited
accounts of the agencies; (f) preparation of claims for reimbursement by IDA;
(g) monthly progress review with each of the implementing agencies; (h) pre-
paration of quarterly progress reports; (i) resolution of implementation
bottlenecks; (j) liaison with the District Coordinating Committee (DCC)
(para 5.02), as appropriate, and (k) assistance to the project cell in RDD
in preparing the project completion report. Support staff for each district
would include an accounting unit and a planning and coordinating unit supple-
mented by supervisory consultants (para 5.06).
5.02      A DCC would be established in each district to:  (a) coordinate
interdepartmental activities;, (b) monitor progress; (c) review the annual and
five-year work plan and budget prior to its submittal to the Rural Development
Project Steering Committee (RDPSC) (para 5.04); and (d) ensure general consis-
tency of project activities with other distinct developmental activities. DCC
would be chaired by the DM with the GA as Vice Chairman, and the PD as the
member-secretary. This committee would meet at least bimonthly. Assurance
has been obtained from GOSL that it would establish and maintain a District
Coordination Committee in each district.
5.03      The implementing agencies are generally well experienced in the
type of work to be financed under the project. With additional staffing,
technical assistance (para 5.06), and infrastructural support to be provided
under the project, all agencies are expected to be fully capable of implement-
ing assigned components or subcomponents. While the number of implementing



- 34 -
agencies is large (26 are involved, see Annex 6), the tasks they would under-
take under the project are relatively straightforward and would require little
additional coordination between agencies than existing in the pre-project
situation. Also, under Sri Lanka's decentralized development administration,
the coordinating and supervising role of the GA is established and proven
effective. Thus project arrangements refine and strengthen an existing
structure to coordinate and supervise the development effort. This judgement
is reinforced by experience gained in the Kurunegala RDP.
5.04      A Project Steering Committee, was established at the national level
in MPI for Kurunegala RDP to resolve project-related policy issues, implemen-
tation bottlenecks, and problems that cannot be resolved at the district
level. It is chaired by the Secretary of MPI, with the Director of RDD as
its member-secretary. This committee is to be reconstituted to serve the
same role for this project as well as other rural development projects in Sri
Lanka. Committee members would be heads of the concerned agencies and depart-
ments with GAs and PD's from the RDPs serving as ex officio members on matters
relating to their respective districts. GOSL would rename the Committee as
RDPSC (para 5.02). In addition to coordination and general project oversight
at the national level, this Committee is responsible for: (a) ensuring general
consistency of district developmental schemes with national policies and pro-
cedures; (b) reviewing quarterly and annual progress reports; (c) monitoring
overall progress within the districts; (d) reviewing and approving the annual
and five-year work program and budget; and (e) liaising with IDA on project
related matters. Assurance has been obtained from GOSL that it would esta-
blish and maintain a Steering Committee to coordinate the project.
5.05      The Steering Committee would be serviced by MPI, specifically MPI's
accounting unit, monitoring unit and project cell established in RDD. These
three organizations would be assisted by supervisory consultants (para 5.06).
The accounting unit's responsibilities would involve: (a) centralized budget-
ing and accounting for the project; (b) consolidating annual audited accounts
from the agencies (through the PDs) and submitting them to IDA; (c) process-
ing IDA reimbursement applications; and (d) consolidating annual budgets.
The cell's responsibilities shall include: (a) broad general guidance and
assistance to the PDs; (b) consolidating annual and five-year work plans,
and quarterly progress reports from both districts; (c) monitoring project
progress; and (e) preparing the project completion report and feasibility
reports for future RDPs. For additional information on project organization
see Annex 6.
5.06      The project would provide about 500 man/months of local supervisory
consultants as follows:
Profession                 No.     Man/Months
Team Leader                1          68
Field Engineer             2         116
Agriculturalist            1          62
Accountant                 1          68
Technical Assistants       3         186
Total                          500



- 35 -
The team of supervisory consultants would report to the Director of RDD and
would assist the project cell, monitoring unit, accounting unit, and PD's for
Puttalam and Matale as well as Kurunegala RDP. Terms of reference for super-
visory consultants are included in Annex 5. The services to be performed by
these consultants include: (a) prepare/review plans and designs for civil
works in compliance with agreed specifications and guidelines (para 3.15); (b)
check all completed civil works to determine quality and quantities of work;
(c) inspect field works; (d) notification to PD on compliance of agency-
certified completed works with agreed project creiteria, guidelines and
specifications; (e) assist in preparing reimbursement applications; (f)
monitor progress and centralized budget control; (g) monitor, review and
assist in procurement matters; and (h) assist preparing quarterly progress
reports, annual progress reports, annual and five-year work programs and
budgets, and project completion reports.
Implementation Schedule
5.07      Project implementation is expected to take five years.  However,
several components, i.e., livestock, agricultural inputs, education and health
are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third year. Tender
documents for all ICB procured vehicles, machinery and equipment were prepared
by August 31, 1980 and were available for IDA review in October 1980. Invita-
tion to bid are expected to be issued by December 15, 1980 with awards by
May 15, 1980, and items delivered by September 1981. Almost all equipment
to be procured would be on site during the second year of the project. Staff
mobilization will begin by October 1, 1980. Based upon the experience of
Kurunegala RDP this is a realistic schedule.
5.08      Much of the supporting infrastructure for the agricultural, econo-
mic, and social sectors would be in place within two years of the start of
the project. Emphasis in the remaining three years of the projects would
be on: rehabilitation of irrigation works and implementing the irrigation
water management program; field works associated with coconut development,
minor export crops, and forestry; agricultural credit program; and, rehabil-
itation and maintenance of the highway feeder and rural road system.
5.09      Each year, the PD in collaboration with the various implement-
ing agencies would prepare a detailed annual work program and update the
five-year work plan for their district, together with associated budgetary
requirements. This document would be supported by appropriate maps, charts,
and diagrams and would include estimated manpower and material requirements.
By September 30, the DCC would review the work plans and submit them to RDD,
where the documents from the two districts would be combined in an annual
and updated five-year work plan for the project. Following review and
approval by the RDPSC, the project's annual work plan would be sent to IDA for
comments. By November 15 of each year, GOSL would send to IDA for comments
the detailed project annual work plan for the following calendar year and the
annually updated five-year work plan for the remainder of the project period.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10      The progress of the project would be monitored through quarterly
reports submitted by each implementing agency to the PD in each district.



- 36 -
Project monitoring in MPI would be by the recently established monitoring unit
in RDD. There would be two types of monitoring: "input monitoring" would
report progress on construction of civil and field works, procurement of
equipment, implementation of programs for planting/replanting, rehabilitation
and credit, and additions to staff; "output and benefit monitoring" would
report achievements of project works in terms of increased production,
improved services, and improved living standards. For "input monitoring,"
quarterly and annual reports would indicate both financial and physical pro-
gress towards the the annual plan targets. Formats would be based, wherever
possible, on the formats developed for the Kurunegala RDP. For "output and
benefit monitoring," implementing agencies would report at least annually the
current level of a carefully chosen "indicator" of progress toward specific
objectives. Formats for these reports have been discussed with GOSL and a
final version would be agreed during negotiations.
5.11      Each quarter the PD in each district would prepare a consolidated
progress report based on the input monitoring reports. It would be reviewed
by DCC within two weeks of the end of the quarter. The project cell in RDD,
with assistance from the monitoring unit and supervisory consultants, would
then prepare a summary quarterly report for the two districts to be discussed
by the RDPSC. GOSL would submit quarterly reports to IDA within eight weeks
of the end of the quarter. The quarterly reports together with the output/
benefit monitoring reports would be used in preparing the annual project work
plan for the coming year (para 5.09) and a comprehensive annual progress
report for the year just completed. GOSL would submit an annual progress
report to IDA for review and comment by March 31 of the following year.
5.12      For overall evaluation, RDD would contract with local universities,
research institutes, or consulting firms for: (a) small, in-depth studies of
the development of minor export crops in Matale, coconut development in
Puttalam, agricultural credit in both districts, and irrigation and water
management in both districts; and (b) an overall evaluation of the project at
the end of implementation (Project Completion). Evaluation would be based on
data from the monitoring system and special data collection. The on-going
work of the Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI) on the evaluation
of the Kurunegala Rural Development Project may provide useful guidance for
work to be undertaken for the project. ARTI's reports on methodology on
evaluation of the Kurunegala project would be made available to any insti-
tution involved in the evaluation of this project. GOSL would by December 1,
1980 submit to IDA for comments a detailed plan for project evaluation.
Technical Assistance
5.13      To strengthen implementation capacity and improve supervision, the
project includes about 1,780 man months of consultancy services as detailed
below:
(a) 500 man-months of local engineering and accounting spe-
cialists (supervisory consultant team see para 5.06);
(b) 1,262 man-months of local water resource planning and con-
struction consultants to assist the Irrigation Department



- 37 -
in the planning and design for rehabilitating major and
minor schemes, including water management provisions and
construction supervison (see para 3.19);
(c) a total of 12 man-months short-term expatriate specialists
to advise the Minor Export Crop Department on its home-
garden development program (para 3.04); and
(d) a total of 6 man-months short-term expatriate specialist
to advise with the monitoring and evaluation process and
any discipline that might be required.
Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that it would employ suitably quali-
fied consultants for the above assignments in accordance with timetables and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Appointment of supervisory
consultants would be a condition for credit effectiveness.
5.14      The project also makes provisions for a limited number of short-term
study tours to neighboring countries by GOSL-selected project staff for
observing the design and implementation of components similar to the ones
financed under the project.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
5.15      Irrigation Works.  The ID will be responsible for O&M of the
major irrigation schemes down to the field channel level. Responsibility for
O&M of field channels (in major schemes) as well as minor irrigation schemes
and groundwater schemes would rest with DAS. 1/ DAS staff would work directly
with the benefitting farmers in carrying out its O&M responsibilties.
5.16      Vehicle and Equipment Repairs and Service.  Minor repairs and
services facilities for vehicles and equipment are adequate for present level
of equipment in the two districts. New private repairshops are expected to be
established with financial support from the Small Scale Industry (SMI) project,
IDA Credit No. 942-CE. Major repairs of equipment and vehicles provided under
the project would have to be undertaken in departmental workshops located
outside the district. The responsibility for the O&M of all such vehicles
and equipment lies with the operating agency or department. There are adequate
private repair facilities to provide maintenance for farm equipment to be
sold to farmers as well as for maintenance of motorcycles, motorized bicycles
and bicycles to be sold to Government staff.
5.17      The maintenance and repair of rehabilitated highways would be done
under the DH. Special provision has been made in the project to strengthen
the O&M capability of DH (para 3.26). Rural water wells as well as rural
roads would be maintained by the DLGS in cooperation with local authorities.
CEB would be responsible for the O&M of rural electrification. Buildings
would be maintained by the appropriate participating agency.
1/   "Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979," Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, September 25, 1979.



- 38 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND IMPACT
OF THE PROJECT ON GOSL BUDGET
Cropping Intensity, Yields and Production
6.01      Paddy.  Cropping intensity in Puttalam irrigation schemes is about
122% but only 77% in Matale. Because of the poor condition of the irrigation
schemes to be rehabilitated under the project, only marginal increases in
cropping intensity could be achieved without investments such as proposed
under the project (paras 2.04 and 2.10). It is estimated that cropping
intensity would reach about 160% in Matale and about 157% in Puttalam eight
years after the completion of proposed improvements. Better timing in
irrigation deliveries together with more timely planting, would bring about
increases in yield and in the ratio of harvested to sown areas. At present,
average yields are about 54 bu/ac in Matale and 39 bu/ac in Puttalam as
compared with the national average of about 52 bu/ac (para 2.21). With
improved irrigation water deliveries and increased availability of non water
inputs brought about by the project, yields are expected to increase to about
62 bu/ac (1.37 ton/ac) in Matale and 50 bu/ac (1 ton/ac) in Puttalam.
At full development, incremental production from project improved irrigation
is estimated at about 12,700 MT of paddy in Matale and 14,000 MT in Puttalam
(increases of 34% and 65% respectively of district production). Present and
future cropping intensities and yields for the rehabilitated schemes are
summarized below.
Table 6.1: PADDY AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Future    Future      % Increase Over
Present   Without    With                  Future
Situation  Project   Project   Present   Without
Matale
Irrigated area/ac          8,200      8,200       9,600      17         17
Gross sown area/ac          6,300     7,370      15,620    148         112
Gross harvested area/ac   5,885       6,895      15,000    155         118
Average Yield bush/ac        53.5      56.7        62.5      17         10
Production (000 bush)       315.2     391.1       937.6    197         140
(MT)                6,440.0   7,990.0   19,155.0
Puttalam
Irrigated area/ac         17,200    17,200       18,900      10         10
Gross sown area /ac        20,950    21,250      29,650      41         40
Gross harvested area/ac  17,255    17,510        27,835      61         59
Average yield (bush/ac)    38.8        41.7        48.6      25         17
Production (000 bush)       669.7     730.3    1,353.9    102           85
(MT)                  13,670.0  14,920.0   27,660.0
Total Production
(000 bush)               984.9   1,121.4    2,291.5    133          104
(MT)               20,110.0  22,910.0   46,815.0



- 39 -
6.02      Coconut.  It is expected that by 1995, when all project plantings/
replantings come into full production, the average yield per acre in the
rehabilitated area would increase from the present 1,500 nuts to 2,300 nuts
per acre, compared with an estimated 1,800 nuts in a without-project case.
The present low yield (about 30 nuts per productive tree) results from a
series of drought years, falling fertilizer use, and a general aging of the
coconut palm population. Under these circumstances a without-project yield of
about 1,800 nuts per ac (or about 35 nuts per productive tree) is probably
optimistic. With the project, aging plantations would be reduced and average
yield per acre increased to about 2,300 nuts per acre (or about 44 nuts per
productive tree). At full development, total production from the rehabilitated
area is estimated at about 119.7 M nuts per annum, of which 26.0 M nuts would
be due to the project.
6.03      Minor Export Crops.  By year 2000 when most new plantings under the
project would be in full bearing, project generated production is expected to
be about 450 MT of cocoa; 60 MT of cardamon; 1,000 MT of pepper; 500 MT of
coffee; 40 MT of cloves; 60 MT of nutmeg and mace. Annual production of
project financed intercrops is estimated at 200 MT of coffee, 110 MT of pepper
and 36 MT of cocoa. Estimated yields and physical levels of input usage for
minor export crops planted under the project are summarized below:
Table 6.2: MINOR EXPORT CROPS
Year of           Peak Production
Peak Production           Kgr/ac
Cocoa             15                   225
Cardamon          10                    70
Pepper             6                   450
Coffee-Robusta   15                    250
Cloves            25                   250
Nutmeg            25                    46
6.04      Sericulture.  It is estimated that the project would increase the
production of silk cocoons by about 68.8 MT in 1988.  Assuming a silk recovery
rate of about 10.5%, project induced silk production would amount to about 7.2
MT of silk.
6.05      Wood Products.  It is expected that at maturity the project financed
forestry program would yield 0.2 M MT of fuelwood and about 45 M cu ft of saw-
logs in the Matale; and about 0.2 M MT of fuelwood and about 7 M cu ft of
saw-logs in the Puttalam. Fuelwood would be harvested in about 15 years,
pine sawlogs in 20 years, and tropical hardwoods sawlogs in 40 years.
Marketing and Commodity Prices
6.06      Marketing.  Sri Lanka rice imports have averaged about 360,000 tons
in the past five years. Even with the highest GOSL projections of increased



- 40 -
annual rice production, it is estimated that Sri Lanka will still be importing
rice for the next two decades. Consequently, project induced production of
about 26,700 MT should be readily absorbed by the domestic market. Current
marketing, storage and milling facilities are adequate for present production
levels; and are being strengthened under a programs funded by USAID and other
donors.
6.07      Coconuts product are staples in Sri Lanka.  Due to depressed pro-
duction levels and steadily increasing domestic demand, coconut exports have
fallen drastically during the last few years. Sri Lanka's share of world
trade in copra and coconut oil decreased from about 8% (about 1,000 M nuts)
in the 1960s to 3% (about 500 M nuts) at present. Coconut marketing is well
developed and handled by the private sector. The Coconut Marketing Authority
sets minimum prices for coconuts and coconut products and issues export
licenses for copra and other coconut products. It is expected that project
induced production (equivalent to 2.5% of total present production and about
5% of present exports) would be readily absorbed by the marketing system.
6.08      Sri Lanka's share of world trade in minor export crops is less
than 5% for given crop. Existing private channels for marketing and exporting
these products are efficient and can be readily expanded to take care of pro-
ject induced production.
6.09      Sri Lanka has recently started exporting silk cocoons and market
prospects appear good. The cocoons would be sold by farmers at a guaranteed
minimum price to the SAPDA, which in turn would export them mainly to Japan.
At full development, project production would represent less than 0.5% of
Japan's 1979 imports of silkworm cocoons. Sri Lanka also has the option of
reeling silk and exporting either raw silk or silk cloth.
6.10      Firewood, pulpwood, and saw logs produced by the project would be
consumed within the country. State-owned plantations developed under the
project would be harvested by the State Timber Corporation. Firewood would
be sold to local contractors for resale normally within the district, or to
the Ceylon Ceramic Corporation for use in the manufacture of tile, brick and
ceramics. Saw logs would be sold to final users (public or private saw mills)
or to traders for resale.
6.11      Prices.  Most agricultural prices in Sri Lanka are influenced
heavily by GOSL intervention through import/export controls, taxes, and
consumer/producer subsidies and through various guaranteed price schemes
(GPS). However, minor export crops are not subject to export controls or
duties and domestic prices follow the world market. Silk cocoon prices are
controlled at about 50% below export value by the SAPDA. This high margin is
presently maintained as compensation for SAPDA's contribution to the cost of
settling silk cocoon producers. It is expected that this differential will
decrease once sericulture becomes better established in Sri Lanka. Prices
for paddy and coconut products are maintained at about 40 to 50% below world
market prices. To encourage yield-augmenting input use and to compensate for
lower than international prices, GOSL provides subsidies on fertilizer and
other inputs. Fertilizer subsidies cover about 75% of cost and are supple-
mented by subsidies on irrigation water; land development works (such as



- 41 -
colonization schemes); coconut rehabilitation and intercropping, and planting
and replanting minor export crops and mulberries. Past GOSL policy that
emphasized input subsidies reflected concerns about the inflationary conse-
quences of the alternative incentive of increased output prices. However,
with the change in Government in 1977 this concern has moderated, and a major
emphasis of the present Government is to reduce both producers and consumers
subsidies throughout the economy.
6.12      Thus, in 1979, GOSL changed drastically the role of the Paddy Market-
ing Board (PMB) and the Food Commissioner (FC) from mere purchasing-cum-
distributing agencies, with heavy subsidies for consumers, especially through
the food subsidy scheme, to that of market regulators where PMB is to hold
the market floor price for farmers' paddy and FC is to hold the ceiling price
for rice consumers. The policy objective of this change was to expand the
role of private sector in the rice market while concentrating the public
sector activities on stabilizing the market with acceptable limits of seasonal
variations in prices. Critical to the success of such policies is the range
between floor and ceiling prices. This range should be set to provide adequate
scope to the private sector without adversely affecting producers and consumer
interests. However, the present range between floor and ceiling price is too
wide. 1/ Since the end of 1979, the ceiling price level has been determined
by the cost-plus import rice price, whereas the floor price level was deter-
mined in November 1977 with no further change thereafter. To compensate for
inflationary effects and unchanged GPS, GOSL in September 1979 increased the
fertilizer subsidies from about 50% of C & F price to about 75%. However,
given the minor impact of lower fertilizer prices on net farm income, farmers
incentives were barely affected by this action.
6.13      Coconut prices are set by supply and demand, within a framework of
export control and export taxation. While the latter has maintained farmgate
prices well below border equivalent prices, these prices have been allowed to
increase considerably during the last years. This was especially true during
1979 when the indicative price for coconut increased from Rs 800/1,000 nuts to
about 950/1,000 nuts. However, a recent IDA analysis 1/ suggests that coconut
farmgate prices are still low and would need to be raised by about 25 to 35%
to encourage farmers to apply fertilizer at recommended levels.
6.14      In line with the above analysis, IDA has recently recommended to
GOSL that it should revise the GPS rice price (increasing it by about 25%)
and to allow the indicative price of coconuts to rise by a similar proportion.
At the same time, GOSL should reduce the fertilizer subsidies. There are indi-
cations that GOSL soon will adopt these measures. Consequently prices used in
the financial analysis of the project are based on 1980 constant currency
values projected to 1990 financial prices reflecting IDA's recommendation to:
(i) increase GPS paddy price; (ii) increase the indicative coconut price;
(iii) reduce fertilizer subsidies. Also projected prices reflect growth of
wages in real terms. Finally, financial prices for minor export crops and
silk cocoons are mainly assumed to follow current price differential between
1/   IDA, Sri Lanka:  "Key Development Issues in the 1980's" Volume II:
Agricultural Producer Incentives, May 29, 1980, pp. 30.



- 42 -
world market prices and farmgate prices. Present and future prices used for
the financial analysis are shown in Annex 7, Table 1.
6.15      Subsidies for Planting, Replanting and Rehabilitation of Crops.
Uncertainties over land ownership emanating from land reform, and heavy ex-
port duties 1/ during years of rising inflation, seriously depressed producers
incentives and adversely affected investment in coconut and minor export crop
development. Also given the predominantly smallholder nature of coconut and
minor export crop holdings, it is inevitable that most farmers give preference
to present over future consumption and thus are not keen to make investments
(even when they have the means to do so) in ventures such as tree crops,
where income is foregone for a long period of time. If an adequate agricul-
tural credit system were to be operative in Sri Lanka, lack of investment
resources could be partially overcome by special credit schemes. Unfor-
tunately such a system does not exist yet.
6.16      Under such circumstances GOSL has introduced subsidy schemes in an
attempt to reverse the long term downward trend in production of coconuts and
minor export crops. The subsidy for planting, replanting and rehabilitating
coconuts and minor export crops covers 50-70% of the total investment cost of
such activities. For the financial analysis in this report, it is assumed
that subsidy payments for planting, replanting and rehabilitating coconuts
and minor export crops would remain essentially unchanged in constant terms.
The critical importance of coconuts and minor export crops to Sri Lanka's
economy justifies the current subsidy schemes. Under present government
policy, coconut subsidies would be fully recovered through export taxation
(see para 6.22). Although minor export crops subsidies would not be recovered,
such crops present a high potential for GOSL's future export tax earnings.
An effective credit system, such as would be introduced under the project,
and coconut prices that better reflect their real value, which GOSL is likely
to introduce, would lessen the need for subsidies. At this time, however,
and despite these developments, a downward adjustment on the level of subsi-
dies would appear unnecessarily risky.
6.17      Farm Income.  The impact of the project on farm incomes would vary
with farm location, cropping pattern, size, and tenancy arrangements. Farm
incomes have been analyzed on the basis of ten illustrative models covering
investments in irrigation, planting/replanting of coconuts, planting minor
export crops, and sericulture.
6.18      The impact of irrigation investments on farm and family income was
analyzed individually for farms within minor and major irrigation schemes.
As average paddy farms in Matale tend to be smaller than in Puttalam. Farm
sizes of 1.9 ac and 2.7 ac, each including 0.5 ac home plot, were used to
represent typical situations in Matale and Puttalam schemes respectively. 2/
1/   Export duty on minor export crops started being reduced by GOSL in 1977
and were totally waived at the end of 1979 in an attempt to increase
producers incentives to increase production.
2/   According to the Agricultural Census, 1962, average size of the
aswedumized paddyland in agricultural holdings was 1.4 ac in Matale and
2.2 ac in Puttalam.



- 43 -
The impact on farm incomes from coconut investments were analyzed for farm
models of 5.5 ac and 15.5 ac supplemented by 0.5 ac of upland crops 1/ The
impact of investments in cocoa, coffee, and pepper were analyzed on the basis
of their being established in the typical mixed forest gardens, in which small-
holders plant their tree crops, and that in the typical 4 ac mixed forest
garden the equivalent of 1/2 ac of one of these crops would be established.
Since a portion of the acreage under cocoa and cardamon development is expected
to be on private estates 2/, a per acre financial analysis was developed
(Annex 7, Table 2).  Lastly, the impact of investments in sericulture were
analysed on the basis of settlement holding of 2 ac of mulberries and 0.5 ac
of upland crops. The broad parameters of the models along with present and
future income levels are shown below and in more detail in Annex 7, Tables 3
to 6.
Table 6.3: FAMILY INCOMES
Net Family Income            Incremental
Future       Future       Income
Farm Model             Farm Size   Present       WO            W          FW -: P
ac                                                (%)
Matale
Paddy (Minor Irrigation)       1.9         2,705      3,640        5,085          88
Paddy (Major Irrigation)       1.9         2,615      3,590        5,810         122
Mixed Forest Garden
(1/2 ac of cocoa)           4.0        12,000    12,000        12,835            7
Mixed Forest Garden
(1/2 ac of coffee)          4.0        12,000    12,000        14,030           17
Mixed Forest Garden
(1/2 ac of pepper)          4.0        12,000    12,000        13,250           10
Sericulture                   2.5            -          -         10,610
Puttalam
Paddy (Minor Irrigation)    2.7            2,160      3,000        5,230         142
Paddy (Major Irrigation)    2.7            2,760      3,850        5,940         115
Coconut (Replant/
Rehab)        5.5         7,180      9,600       11,410           59
Coconut (Replant/
Rehab)       15.5        18,345    25,015        30,180           65
1/   According to the Agricultural Census, 1962, about 50% of the area was in
holding sizes of less than 10 ac, 14% in 10-25 ac and 35% in units of
25 ac and above. There is not more recent information of coconut land
tenure.
2/   Holdings limited to 50 ac.



- 44 -
6.19      The summary table above shows the large difference in current net
farm income for paddy, coconut, minor export crops, and silkworm growers to
be benefited by the project. However, a number of factors explain the large
disparity in relative incremental benefits of the project. Firstly, small
farmers in irrigated schemes, with low intensities, low productivity and high
crop risk, would be able to substantially increase cropping intensities and
yields and decrease their risks. Hence, they would more than double present
income levels. Secondly, coconut farmers with a high proportion of senile
palms and low yields on mature plantations would be able to decrease the
proportion of senile plantation and increase yields. Thus, their levels of
income would increase by more than 50%. Thirdly, in the case of mixed forest
garden holdings the increase in total farm income is expected to be moderate
since in the illustrative models used only 12% of the farm was assumed to be
improved under the project. Fourthly, settlers in the silkworm scheme, former
unskilled laborers, would be able to own a farm and realize a farm income of
about Rs 10,610 per year. While recognizing that relative incremental income
would vary greatly among the project beneficiaries, estimates of financial
returns on the directly productive investment activities to be financed under
the project indicate annual returns ranging from 17% to 100%. All such activ-
ities should be financially attractive to farmers.
Impact on the Government Budget
6.20      The capital cost of the project works would amount to Rs 266 M in
present value (PV) 1/ terms while the incremental O&M costs of all the project
components during the project life is estimated at Rs 46 M in PV. Subsidies
for coconut, minor export crops and sericulture would total Rs 14 M (PV).
Based on projected international prices and GOSL-controlled prices, future
subsidies on incremental fertilizer used due to the project is estimated at
Rs 32 M (PV). Agriculture credit would amount to Rs 60 M (PV). Hence the
PV of total capital and O&M costs and subsidies over the 25 year life of the
project would amount to Rs 418 M.
6.21      GOSL budgetary contribution to the project during the total project
life is estimated at Rs 198 M (PV) or equivalent to 47% of total project costs.
The balance of Rs 220 M (PV) or 53% of total project costs would be recovered
from beneficiaries through different means and from GOSL commercial activi-
ties as described hereunder. Since about 30% of the project's investment cost
would be directed to the economic and social infrastructure, this level of
direct 2/ recovery is very satisfactory and higher than for the average rural
development project because of the revenues accruing from the forestry component.
6.22      Recoveries.  GOSL revenues through implicit and/or explicit taxation
for exports of coconuts and sericulture are estimated to amount to Rs 50 M
1/   Analysis done in constant 1980 Rupees.  A 12% p.a. discount rate is used
to calculate PV.  Costs include physical contingencies but exclude price
contingencies.
2/   The project would have substantial secondary benefits a part of which
would be captured by GOSL through taxes and duties.



- 45 -
(PV). This amount would allow GOSL to more than fully recover investments on
these components. The sales of project induced production of fuelwood would
provide GOSL a revenue of Rs 101 M (PV). Under the Land Betteresnt Charge Law
of 1976, irrigation rates are confined to major irrigation echew.s providing
full irrigation facilities. Charges are currently set at Rs 30/ac for schemes
with more than 150% cropping intensity and Rs 20/ac for schemes with less than
150% cropping intensity. On this basis incremental water charges for the 15
major irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the project would amount to Rs 3
M (PV). According to the above law, farmers benefiting from 240 minor irriga-
tion schemes do not have to pay water charges, instead they contribute labor
for the O&M of these schemes. Under the project GOSL would undertake about
25% of the earthwork for rehabilitating these minor schemes by utilizing
voluntary farmers labor (para 3.16). It is estimated that this latest contri-
bution would amount to Rs 5 M (PV). Hence recoveries on irrigation facilities
would amount to Rs 8 M (PV). This level of recovery is considered reasonable
because of the low income of most farmers benefitting from improvem-nts to
irrigation facilities.  Agricultural credit program would be reco'ci-- through
credit repayments by farmers estimated at about Rs 61 M (PV), slightly higher
than credit disbursements as the average interest rate charged for the dif-
ferent types of institutional credit is slightly higher than the 12% discount
rate considered to be the annual cost of capital in Sri Lanka. Although
investments in minor export crops would not be recovered, future exports would
provide a potential for later GOSL revenues. In sum, the total recoveries
from the project would amount to Rs 220 M (PV). Table 6.4 below summarizes
the total project costs and the estimated recoveries in present value (PV)
terms.



- 46 -
Table 6.4: PRESENT VALUES OF PROJECT COST AND RECOVERIES
Cost
Capital Costs:
Agricultural Sector 1/                             41.3
Forestry                                           20.9
Water Sector                                      106.2
Economic Infrastructure                            55.3
Social Infrastructure                              29.4
Project Coordination                               12.8
Subtotal                                     265.9
O&M Cost of all Project Components                      46.4
Subsidies:
Coconuts                                            7.8
Minor Export Crops                                  5.2
Sericulture                                         0.9
Input Subsidies                                    31.8
Subtotal                                      45.7
Agricultural Credit                                     60.3
Total Cost                                   418.3
Recoveries
Water Charges                                             3.0
Farmer Labor Contribution for
Rehabilitation of Minor Irrigation Schemes             4.7
Coconut Export Duty                                     32.1
Sericulture Implicit Taxation                           18.3
Forestry Products                                      100.5
Repayments on Agricultural Credit                       61.2
Total Recoveries                             219.8
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      The proposed project would increase agricultural production, raise
incomes, and improve living standards in the predominantly rural districts
of Matale and Puttalam. By reducing imports of rice and increasing exports
of coconut products, minor export crops, and silk cocoons, the project would
have a beneficial effect on GOSL's balance of payments. It would also signi-
ficantly increase employment opportunities.
1/   Excludes Forestry and Agricultural Credit.



- 47 -
Employment and Income Effects
7.02      Due to more intensive land use and improved crop husbandry prac-
tices, the project would result in additional direct annual farm employment of
about 2 M man days at full development in 1995. The value added in agricul-
ture, plus the increase in input requirements should also generate indirect
additional employment. Most of the demand would be for unskilled workers and
thus provide employment opportunities for farm families with excess family
labor and for landless families.
7.03      About two thirds of direct project beneficiaries would be small
farmers with operational holdings of less than 2 ac (para 2.15) and present
incomes below the poverty level of US$75 per capita per annum. With success-
ful project implementation, the incomes of most of these farm families would
be raised above the poverty line. Since most of the direct benefits of the
project would come from increased farm productivity, the distribution of bene-
fits would largely follow the existing land ownership pattern. Thus, even
though two thirds of the intended beneficiaries appear to be below the poverty
income level, only about one third of the direct benefits are expected to
accrue to that group.
Balance of Payments
7.04      Based on projected 1990 international prices expressed in constant
1980 dollars, additional exports of coconut products, minor export crops, and
silk cocoons should provide incremental foreign exchange earnings of about
US$8.9 M per annum by 1995. Import substitution of rice, due to project
induced production, should save about US$6.6 M per annum. The foreign exchange
costs for tradable recurrent inputs in 1995 is estimated to be US$2.5 M per
annum. Thus, at full development, net foreign exchange earnings from the
project would be about US$13 M per annum.
Economic and Social Infrastructure
7.05      Rehabilitation and expansion of the economic and social infrastruc-
ture in the two districts would improve living standards, especially among
families in isolated areas. The project would improve drinking water supplies
for about 6,250 rural families in each District. Electricity would be supplied
to about 1,100 rural households in Matale and 550 in Puttalam. Isolated vil-
lages, especially along the coast in Puttalam and in the Laggala region of
Matale, would enjoy improved road transport. About 150 schools in Matale and
140 in Puttalam would be provided with additional facilities or equipment.
Curative health services throughout the districts would be upgraded. Conse-
quently, disparities in living standards within the two districts and the
country as a whole would be reduced.
Environmental Impact
7.06      The project is expected to have no adverse environmental impact.
The forestry program would be beneficial through assisting in the better con-
servation of the upper catchment area of Mahaweli Ganga. The project would
provide safe drinking water through the installation of 250 wells.



- 48 -
Economic Benefits
7.07      In calculating the economic benefits of the project, only the bene-
fits generated by the directly productive components e.g. irrigation, coconut,
minor export crops, sericulture and forestry development were counted; no
attempt was made to quantify the benefits from other project components. On
that basis, the overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 17%,
(18% for Matale and 15% for Puttalam). 1/ The analysis implies that through
implementation of the multipurpose project, Sri Lanka's economy would realize
a net present value 2! of project benefits of Rs 182 M, (Rs 130 M in Matale
and Rs 52 M in Puttalam). If the cost of social infrastructure were excluded,
the ERR of the directly productive components is estimated at 23% (24% in
Matale and 22% in Puttalam). To analyze the economic viability of each compo-
nent, the ERR of individual directly productive components were calculated and
are shown in Annex 7, Table 7. ERR for such components range from 17% (Minor
Irrigation Puttalam) to 43% (Sericulture in Matale).
7.08      The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices: Prices of all tradables are calculated as border
prices in 1980 rupees. Economic prices for the major agri-
cultural products are based on Bank-projected 1990 prices
with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling, proces-
sing, and quality differentials. Economic prices for non-
tradables are based on local rupee prices adjusted by
appropriate conversion factors as specified in Annex 7,
Table 8. To take account of existing unemployment in Sri
Lanka, the economic wage rate for farm labor is estimated
at Rs 9.75 per manday (annual average) in 1980 (compared to
an average market wage of Rs 13.5), increasing to Rs 12.5
per manday (annual average) in 1990. Input and output prices
used in the economic analysis are shown in Annex 7, Table 1.
(b) Benefits. The direct project benefits would be increased
production of rice, coconut products, minor export crops,
silk cocoons, and forestry products. Estimates of incremen-
tal production are based on most probable yields and inten-
sities attainable with project investments (paras 6.01-6.05).
(c) Investment Costs. All project costs except price contingen-
cies are included in the economic analysis.
(d) Project Life and Phasing of Benefits. A project life of
25 years has been assumed, including the five year period
of project implementation. Benefits from increased agri-
cultural production would peak after about 15 years (1995).
1/   Project includes physical contingencies but excludes price contingencies.
2/   Discounted at 12% per annum, estimated to be the opportunity cost of
capital in Sri Lanka.



- 49 -
The phasing of benefits takes account of the differences
between productive components to achieve full development
and the different rates of project implementation. Phasing
of project benefits is shown in Annex 7, Table 9.
Risks and Sensitivity
7.09      The risks related to the engineering and agronomic proposals are
considered to be within an acceptable range. The executing agencies have
experience in carrying out the type of works proposed, while projected yields,
intensities, and production techniques have been adequately tested and are
currently observable on progressive farms. However, given the nature of the
project and the difficulties associated with inter-related works, it would
be unrealistic to expect problem-free implementation.
7.10      Poor quality control of irrigation works has been a common problem
in Sri Lanka and has been observed at the Kurunegala Rural Development Project.
To minimize such risk, the project would employ planning and supervisory con-
sultants, an innovation for projects of this type in Sri Lanka. The intro-
duction of water management techniques, although proven to be feasible and
currently adopted in some areas of Sri Lanka, are taking longer to be imple-
mented than previously envisioned. To overcome this problem, the project
would provide strong institutional support for the introduction of water
management in the two districts. To reflect a more realistic rate of adoption
of improved water management under the project, full development of project
irrigation works has been estimated to require eight years after completion
of project works. Also, sensitivity tests were made for slower rates of
adoption and lower intensities than originally estimated for the yala season.
7.11      Problems related to coordination and implementation are often
associated with multi-component projects. However, these are not expected to
be significant for this project given Sri Lanka's decentralized system of
district government (paras 1.11 and 1.13). The proposed management system is
a replicate of the system installed in Kurunegla RDP, which has been working
satisfactorily.
7.12      Sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable under
a variety of adverse assumptions about benefits and costs. Results of some
important tests are shown below.



- 50 -
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Total     Rate of Return (%)
Project   Matale    Puttalam
(a)  Base case                                       17         18          15
(b)  10% increase in costs                           16         17          14
(c)  two year delay in realization
of increased paddy production                   16         17          14
(d)  20% decrease in expected yala cropped area   16            17          14
(e)  20% decrease in expected paddy yields           16         17          14
(f)  20% decrease in benefit from coconut
sericulture and minor export crops
(slower rate of implementation)                 16         17         14
(g)  (c) and (f)                                     15         16          13
(h)  (b), (e) and (f)                                14         16          12
(i)  directly productive components                  23         24          22
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a) all plans and designs for facilities under the project (inc-
luding irrigation and groundwater), would be in accordance
with specifications and guidelines satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.16 and 3.21);
(b) all agencies involved in project implementation would
prepare and maintain separate accounts, and the Ministry
of Plan Implementation would prepare and maintain consoli-
dated accounts for the project, and such accounts together
with disbursement documents, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para 4.10);
(c) the Project Directors in Matale and Puttalam districts
would have experience, qualifications, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para 5.01);
(d) it would establish and maintain a District Coordination
Committee in each district and a Steering Committee at
the national level (paras 5.02 and 5.04); and



- 51 -
(e)  suitably qualified teams of supervisory, planning and con-
struction consultants (local), as well as short-term expa-
triate specialists would be employed on terms, conditions
and timetable satisfactory to IDA (para 5.13).
8.03      Conditions for credit effectiveness would be that GOSL would have:
(a) executed subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with the People's
Bank and the Bank of Ceylon regarding agricultural credit operations under
the project (para 3.08); and (b) appointed supervisory consultants (para
5.13).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$33.5 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost
Local  Foreign  Total    1980         1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
-------------------------------------------Rs M---------------------------------------
I.  Civil Works                       126.19    37.92  164.11   2.48        27.63      38.76     42.55       34.04   18.65        0.00
II. Crops and Forestry Develop.l/    44.55       5.60   50.15   0.09         5.25       7.30       9.74      12.34   15.43        0.00
III. Equipment                           5.45    56.98   62.43   6.98        47.29       7.90      0.20        0.06   00.00        0.00
IV. Crop Production Loans              29.95    18.25   48.20   0.00         2.80       6.05      8.95       12.85   17.55        0.00
V. Loans for Farm Equipment           13.77    27.70   41.47   0.00         8.48       8.66       7.96       8.11    8.26        0.00
VI. Technical Assistance               20.09     6.41   26.50   0.67         6.58       6.05       5.23       4.20    2.85        0.92
VII. Supervision and Administration   54.52    19.14   73.66   0.50           9.27      15.57      15.87      15.96.  16.01        0.48
VIII. Base Cost                         294.52   172.00  466.52  10.72       107.30      90.29      90.50      87.56.  78.75        1.40
IX. Physical Contingencies             23.31    12.49   35.80   1.07         9.88       7.19      6.97        6.10    4.44        0.15
X. Price Contingencies2!             197.03    80.81  277.84   1.81        21.84      39.98     58.89       73.87   79.73        1.72
Total                     514.86   265.30  280.16  13.60       139.02    137.46    156.36        167.53  162.92       3.27
1/ Referred to as Field Works in the tables by components.
2/ Based on the following rates:               1980        1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
Equipment and Vehicles           10.5         9.0        8.0      7.0       6.0       6.0
Civil Works                      30.0        15.0       12.0     12.0      10.0      10.0
Other Costs                       21.0       15.0       12.0     12.0      10.0      10.0
U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m X4
in



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project
Cost Summary by Districts and Components
Total Cost
Local  Foreign  Total  % of Total   Matale  Puttalam   Kurunegla    RDD
Agriculture                                         ---     Rs M---____ ------- - --------Rs M--------------
Coconut Development                           14.11    5.35    19.46         2.49       -       19.46         -         _
Minor Export Crops                            20.77    7.77    28.54         3.65   *28.54         -           -        -
Sericulture                                    4.06    0.78      4.84        0.62      4.84       -           -         -
Agricultural Credit                           44.42   47.75    92.17        11.81    45.22      46.95         -         -
Agricultural Inputs                            4.91    4.00      8.91        1.14      4.74       4.17
Livestock Development                          3.11    1.22      4.33        0.56      1.92       2.41
Forestry                                      26.40    4.83    31.23         4.0      21.09     10.14         -         -
Fisheries                                      4.82    2.99      7.81        1.0        -         7.81         -        _
Subtotal                          122.60   74.69   197.29        25.27   106.35       90.94         -        -
Water
Irrigation and Water Management               85.29   44.47   129.76        16.61    34.04      82.67        13.05      _
Groundwater Development                        2.47    2.89      5.36        0.70       -         5.36         -        -
Rural Water Supply                             2.98    3.82      6.80        0.90      2.98       3.82         -        _
Subtotal                           90.74   51.18   141.92        18.21    37.02       91.85        13-05     -
Economic Infrastructure
Roads                                         35.36   23.43    58.79         7.53    31.59      27.20         -
Rural Electrification                          8.30    4.15    12.45         1.60      8.02      4.43          -
Subtotal                           43.66   27-.58    71.24        9.13    39.61       31.63         -        _
Social Infrastructure
Health                                         8.34    7.76    16.10         2.06      6.49       9.61        -         -
Education                                     12.11    7.18    19.29         2.47      ^5L6      9.73         -         _
Subtotal                           20.45   14.94    35.39         4.53    16.05       19 34         -        -
Project Management and Coordination             17.07    3.61    20.68         2.65      2.90       3.22         -       14.56
Total Base Cost                   294.52  172.00   466.52        59.79   201.93    236.98          13.05    14.56
Physical Contingencies             23.31   12.49    35.80         4.59    15.00      18.04          1.30     1.46
Price Contingencies               197.03   80.81   277.84        35.62   120.71    142.66           5.31      9.16    a
Total Cost                        514.86  265.30   780.16       100.00   337.64    397.68          19.66    25.18



ANNEX 1
Table 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Development (Puttalam District)
Cost Estimates and Scheduling of Expenditures-
Total Cost
Local  Foreign   Total   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
I.  Civil Works                     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rs M- - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - 
Coconut Cultivation Board        0.61    0.26    0.87    0.12    0.12    0.34    0.29           -        -
Fruit Tree Farm (DA)             0.19    0.08    0.27        -      0.05    0.22        -       _
Adaptive Research Farm           0.20    0.09    0.29        -      0.20    0.09        -       -
Sub-total              1.00    0.43    1.43    0.12    0.37    0.65    0.29           -        -
II. Field Works
Replanting/Underplanting         6.54    1.63    8.17       -       0.31    0.73    1.45    2.28        3.40
Rehabilitation                   2.32    0.58    2.90       -       0.18    0.39    0.60    0.71        1.02
Small Gardens                    0.10    0.03    0.13       -       0.01    0.02    0.02    0.03        0.05
Intercropping                    1.70    0.42    2.12       -       0.10    0.26    0.43    0.60        0.73
Sub-total             10.66    2.66   13.32       -       0.60    1.40    2.50    3.62        5.20
III. Equipment and Transp. Vehicles
Coconut Cultivation Board        0.11    1.01    1.12    0.28    0.64    0.20          -        -        -
Fruit Tree Farm                  0.01    0.07    0.08       -       0.08       -       -        -        -
Adaptive Res. Farm               0.01    0.06    0.07       -       0.07       -        -       -        -
Sub-total              0.13    1.14    1.27    0.28    0.79    0.20           -      _         -
IV. Supervision and Administration
Coconut Cultivat!ion Board       1.68    0.83    2.51       -       0.25    0.51    0.59    0.58        0.58
Fruit Tree Farm                  0.41    0.17    0.58       -       0.06    0.13    0.13    0.13        0.13
Adaptive Res. Farm               0.23    0.12    0.35       -       0.05    0.07    0.07    0.08        0.08
Sub-total              2.32    1.12    3.44       -       0.36    0.71    0.79    0.79        0.79
V.  Base Cost                        14.11    5.35   19.46    0.40    2.12    2.96    3.58    4.41          5.99
VI. Physical Contingencies            0.35    0.27    0.62    0.04    0.15    0.16    0.11    0.08          0.08
VII. Price Contingencies               9.71    3.05   12.76       -      0.49    1.26    2.09    3.34        5.58
TOTAL             24.17    8.67   32.84    0.44    2.76    4.38    5.78    7.83    11.65
54



ANNEX 1
Table 3
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Minor Export Crops Development (Matale)
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                  Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total    1980    1981    1982    1983   1984   1985
---                               s ---------------------------R  M--------------------------------
I. Civil Works.                              3.04     1.30   4.34    0.43       2.63    0.80    0.36   0.12    -
II. Field Works
Regular subsidy program                 8.47       -    8.47      -        0.13    0.85    1.65   2.41   3.43
Smallholder subsidy program             0.52       -    0.52      -        0.04    0.12    0.12   0.12   0.12
Subtotal                       8.99        -    8.99      -       0.17    0.97    1.77   2.53   3.55
III. Equipment
Equipment and vehicles for DMEC         0.15     2.90   3.05    0.48       2.57      -        -      -      -
Vehicles for DA                         0.02     0.39   0.41      -        0.41      -        -      -      -
Subtotal                       0.17      3.29   3.46    0.48      2.98       -       -      -       -
IV. Technical Assistance
Overseas study tours                     -       0.80   0.80      -        0.16    0.16    0.16   0.16   0.16
Consulting services                      -       1.12   1.12      -        0.56    0.56       -      -      -
Subtotal                        -        1.92   1.92      -       0.72     .72    0.16   0.16   0.16
V. Supervision and Administration
Salaries and other costs for DMEC       6.20     1.26   7.46      -       1.22    1.56    1.56   1.56   1.56
Salaries and other costs for DA         2.37       -    2.37      _       0.45    0.48    0.48   0.48   0.48
Subtotal                       8.57      1.26   9.83      -       1.67    2.04    2.04   2.04   2.04
VI. Base Cost                                20.77      7.77  28.54    0.91.    8.17    4.53    4.33   4.85   5.75
VII. Physical Contingencies                    1.18      0.78   1.96    0.09      0.80    0.36    0.26   0.23   0.22
VIII. Price Contingencies                      14.14      2.42  16.56    0.20      1.79    2.06    2.70   3.99   5.82
IX. Total Cost                               36.09    10.97  47.06    1.20    10.76    6.95    7.29   9.07  11.79
55



SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Cost Estimates & Schedule of Expenditure
Sericulture - Matale
Local    Foreign    Total        1980        1981       1982       1983        1984      1985
-----------------------------------Rs Million------------ - -------------------  -
Civil Works                           0.47       0.20       0.67       0.30       0.37          -          -           -
Field Works                           1.15         -        1.15       0.03        0.60       0.52         -           _
Equipment and Vehicles                0.20       0.34       0.54       0.29       0.25          -          -           _
Supervision and Administration    2.24           0.24       2.48        -         0.23        0.56       0.56       0.56        0.57
Base Cost                            4.06        0.78       4.84       0.62       1.45        1.08       0.56       0.56        0.57
Physical Contingencies                0.41       0.08       0.49       0.06       0.15        0.10       0.06       0.06        0.06
Price Contingencies                   2.02       0.28       2.30       0.14       0.33        0.45       0.34       O.46        0.58
Total Cost              6.49       1.14        7.63       0.82       1.93       1.63        0.96       1.08       1.21
04-
LJ1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 



ANNEX 1
Table 5
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Local     Foreign        Total          1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
---------------------------------------Rs M-------- -------______________________
I. Short-term Production Loans
Matale                                 12.65       2.50          15.15         0.70          1.55         2.70        4.20          6.00
Puttalam                                7.50       2.50          10.00         0.55         1.20          1.90        2.70         3.65
Subtotal                  20.15       5.00          25.15         1.25         2.75         7.60         6.90         9.65
II.  Medium and Long-term Crop Loans
Matale(minor export crops)"/            6.05       2.00           8.05         0.40         0.80          1.35        2.10          3.40
Puttalam (coconuts)Z                    3.75      11.25          15.00         1.15         2.50         3.00         3.85         4.50
Subtotal                   T1        13.25          23.05         1.55         3.30         4.35         5.95         7.90
III. Loans for Farm Equipment
Matalei/                                5.70      13.35          19.05         3.85         3.95          3.65         3.75         3.85
PuttalamE/                              6.05      14.15          20.20         3.94         3.99         4.04         4.09         4.14
Subtotal                  11.75      27.50          39.25         7.79         7.94         7.69         7.84         7.99
IV. Loans for Storage and Shed
M     1tale1/                           1.57       0.15           1.72         0.59         0.62         0.17         0.17         0.17
Puttalam2/                              0.45       0.05           0.50         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10
Subtotal                   2.02       0.20           2.22         0.69         0.72         0.27         0.27         0.27
3'
V.  Vehicles and Equipment-
Matale                                  0.05       0.20           0.25         0.25
Puttalam                                0.05       0.20           0.25         0.25
Subtotal                   0.10       0.40           0.50         0.50          -            -            -             -
VI. Technical Assistance (overseas staff training)
Matale                                   -         0.50           0.50          -           0.25         0.25           -            -
Puttalam                                 _         0.50           0.50          _           0.25         0.25           -            -
Subtotal                             1.00           1.00          -           0.50         0.50          -            -
VII.  SuDervision and Administration_/
Matale                                  0.30       0.20           0.50         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10
Puttalam                                0.30       0.20           0.50         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10         0.10
Subtotal                   0.60       0.40           1.00         0.20         0.20         0 .20        0.20         0.20
VIII. Base Cost
Matale                                 26.32      18.90          45.22         5.89         7.27         8.22        10.32         13.52
Puttalam                               18.10      28.85          46.95         6.09         8.14         9.39        10.84        12.49
Subtotal                  44.42      47.75          92.17        11.98        15.41        17.61        21.16        26.01
IX. Physical Contingencies5/
Matale                                  0.04       0.09           0.13         0.04         0.03         0.04         0.01         0.01
Puttalam                                0.03       0.09           0.12         0.03         0.04         0.03         0.01         0.01
Subtotal                   0.07       0.18           0.25         0,07         0.07         0.07         0.02         0.02
X. Price Contingencies
Matale                                 17.59      11.03          28.62         1.22         2.81         4.50          7.64        12.45
Puttalam                               11.64      17.54          29.18         1.26         3.15         5.19         8.08        11.50
Subtotal                  29.23      28.57          57.80         2.48         T9                      15.72        23.95
XI. Total Cost
Matale                                 43.95      30.02          73.97         7.15        10.11        12.76        17.97        25.98
Puttalam                               29.77      46.48          76.25         7.38        11.33        14.61        18.93         24.00
Total                     73.72      76.50         150.22        14.53        21.44        27.37        36.90        49.98
57



ANNEX 1
Table 6
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Inputs
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Unit        Total Cost                  Annual Expenditures
No   Cost   Local  Foreign  Total   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-----------------------------Rs M-----------------------------
I. Civil Works (DAS)
Matale
Enlarging Fertilizer Stores                  4    60      0.17    0.08    0.25        -      0.08   0.10   0.07
Dunnage For Fertilizer Stores               20      4     0.05    0.03    0.08        -      0.05   0.03      -
Improving Seed Stores                        7    20      0.09    0.05    0.14        -      0.06   0.06   0.02
Pesticide Store Conversion                  20      6     0.08    0.04    0.12        -      0.04   0.06      -
District Building                            1    LS      0.09    0.04    0.13        -      0.10   0.03      -
Subtotal                                          0.48    0.24    0.72        -      0.33   0.28   0.11
Puttalam
Enlarging Fertilizer Stores                  4    60      0.17    0.08    0.25        -      0.06   0.10   0.09
Dunnage For Fertilizer Stores               20      4     0.05    0.03    0.08        -      0.03   0.03   0.02
Improving Seed Stores                       10    20      0.13    0.07    0.20        -     0.04   0.09   0.07
Pesticide Store Conversinn                  20      6     0.08    0.04    0.12        -      0.02   0.06   0.04
District Office Building                     1    LS      0.16    0.06    0.22        -      0.20   0.02      -       -       -
Quarters (Grade 3)                           5    LS      0.38    0.17    0.55        -      0.40   0.15      -
Subtotal                                          0.97    0.45    1.42        -      0.75   0.45   0.22
Subtotal - Civil Works                            1.45    0.69    2.14        -      1.08   0.73   0.33
II. Equipment and Vehicles
Matale                                                       0.06    1.24    1.30   0.10    1.00   0.20          -      -
Puttalam                                                    0.04    0.90    0.94   0.10    0.74   0.10           -      -
Subtotal                                          0.10    2.14    2,24   0.20    1,74   0.30
III. Supervision and Administration
Matale                                                       2.00    0.72    2.72       -      0.32   0.60   0.60    0.60    0.60
Puttalam                                                     1.36    0.45    1.81       -      0.21   0.40   0.40    0.40    0.40
Subtotal                                          3.36    1.17    4.53        -      0.53   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
IV. Base Cost
Matale                                                       2.54    3.20    4.74   0.10    '1.65   1.08   0.71    0.60    0.60
Puttalam                                                    2.85    2.04    4.89   0.20    2.03   1.23   0.73    0.40    0.40
Subtotal                                          5.31    5.24    9.63   0.20    3.68   2.31   1.44    1.00    1.00
V.  Physical Contingencies
Matale                                                       0.25    0.22    0.47   0.01    0.16   0.11   0.07    0.06    0.06
Puttalam                                                     0.29    0.20    0.49   0.01    0.21   0.12   0.07    0.04    0.04
Subtotal                                          0.54    0.42    0,96   0.02    0.37   0.23   0.14    0.10    0.10
VI. Price Contingencies
Matale                                                      1.56    0.87    2.43   0.03    0.30   0.46   0.45    0.49    0.70
Puttalam                                                     1.36    0.72     2.08   0.03    0.40   0.44   0.41    0.33    0.47
Subtotal                                          2 92    1.59    4.51        - 0.6    0.70   0.90   0.86    0.82    1.17
Subtotal - Matale                                 4.35     3.29    7.64   0.14    2.11   1.65   1.23    1.15    1.36
Subtotal - Puttalam                               4.50    2.96    7.46   0.14    2.64   1.79   1.21    0.77    0.91
Total                                             8.85    6.25   15.10   0.28     4.75   3.44   2.44    1.92    2.27
58



ANNEX 1
Table 7
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Livestock
Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                  Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total    1980    1981        1982    1983   1984    1985
I. Civil Works                                --------------------------------Rs M----------------------------------
Matale
New Veterinary Clinics                    0.17    0.07      0.24       -       0.24      -        -      -        -
Upgraded Veterinary Clinics               0.01    0.01      0.02       -        -      0.02       -      -        -
Quarters for Veterinary Surgeons          0.25    0.10      0.35       -        -      0.17      0.18    -        -
Cattle Handling Facilities                0.07    0.03      0.10       -      0.03    0.05       0.02    -        -
Subtotal                       0.50    0.21      0.71       -       0.27    0.24      0.20    -        -
Puttalam
New Veterinary Clinics                    0.17    0.07      0.24       -      0.12    0.12        -      -        -
Upgraded Veterinary Clinics               0.04    0.02      0.06       -         -     0.04      0.02    -        -
Quarters for Veterinary Surgeons          0.25    0.10      0.35       -      0.17    0.18        -      -        -
Cattle Handling Facilities                0.07    0.03      0.10       -      0.03    0.05       0.02    -        -
Subtotal                       0.53    0.22      0.75       -      0.32    0.39       0.04    -        -
II. Equipment & Vehicles
Matale                                     0.03    0.30      0.33      0.20    0.11    0.02        -       -       -
Puttalam                                   0.03    0.32      0.35      0.20    0.12    0.03        -       -       -
Subtotal                       0.06    0.62      0.68      0.40    0.23    0.05        -       -       -
III. Supervision and Administration
Matale                                     0.81    0.07      0.88      0.00    0.08    0.20       0.20   0.20    0.20
Puttalam                                   1.21    0.10      1.31      0.00    0,11    0.30       0.30   0.30    0.30
Subtotal                       2.02    0.17      2.19      0.00    0.19    0.50       0.50   0.50    0.50
IV. Base Cost
Matale                                     1.34    0.59      1.93      0.20    0.46    0.47       0.40   0.20    0.20
Puttalam                                   1.76    0.64      2.40      0.20    0.55    0.71       0.34   0.30    0.30
Subtotal                       3.10    1.23      4.33      0.40        .01    1.18    0.74   0.50    0.50
V. Physical Contingencies
Matale                                     0.13    0.06      0.19      0.02    0.04    0.05       0.04   0.02    0.02
Puttalam                                   0.18    0.06      0.24      0.02    0.06    0.07       0.03   0.03    0.03
Subtotal                       0.31    0.12      0.43      0.04    0.10    0.12       0.07   0.05    0.05
VI. Price Contingencies
Matale                                     0.83    0.20      1.03      0.02    0.14    0.23       0.27   0.17    0.20
Puttalam                                   1.08    0.21      1.29      0.02    0.17    0.34       0.22   0.24    0.30
Subtotal                       1.91    0.41      2.32      0.04    0.31    0.57       0.49   0.41    0.50
Subtotal - Matale              2.30    0.85      3.15      0.24    0.64    0.75       0.71   0.39    0.42
Subtotal - Puttalam            3.02    0.91      3.93      0.24    0.78    1.12       0.59   0.57    0.63
Total                          5.32    1.76      6.08      0.48    1.42    1.87       1.30   0.96    1.05
59



ANNEX 1
Table 8
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                   Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total    1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985
I.  Civil Works                                                          Rs M --------- -- - - - ------------------
Matale District
Office Complex                          0.09      0.03    0.12    0.05   0.07        -       _       -      _
Forester's House                        0.07      0.03    0.10    0.05   0.05        -       -       -      -
Forest Ranger's House                   0.10      0.04    0.14    0.02   0.08    0.04        -       -      -
Other Houses (12)                        0.42     0.18    0.60    0.10   0.20    0.25    0.05    -          -
Subtotal                          0.68      0.28    0.96    0.22   0.40    0.29    0.05    -          -
Puttalam District
Office Complex                          0.09      0.03    0.12    0.05   0.07        -       -       -      -
Forester's House                        0.07      0.03    0.10    0.05   0.05       -        -       -      -
Forest Ranger's House                   0.10      0.04    0.14    0.02   0.08    0.04        -       -      -
Other Houses(S)                         0.28      0.12    0.40    0.10   0.15    0.15        -
Subtotal                          0.54      0.22    0.76    0.22   0.35    0.19        -      -       -
Subtotal - Civil Works            1.22      0.50    1.72    0.44   0.75    0.48    0.05    -          -
11. Field Works
Matale                                  16.20      2.31   18.51    0.04   2.85    3.01    3.75   4.26   4.60
Puttalam                                  7.55     0.63    8.18    0.02   1.03    1.40    1.72   1.93   2.08
Subtotal                         23.75      2.94   26.69    0.06   3.88    4.41    5.47   6.19   6.68
III. Equipment and Transport Vehicles
Matale                                    0.08     0.74    0.82    0.48   0.28    0.05    0.01    -           -
Puttalam                                  0.06     0.51    0.57    0.29   0.25    0.02    0.01    -           _
Subtotal                          0.14      1.25    1.39    0.77   0.53    0.07    0.02    -          -
IV. Supervision and Administration
Matale                                    0.72     0.08    0.80        -    0.09    0.17    0.18   0.18   0.18
Puttalam                                  0.57     0.06    0.63        -    0.08    0.13    0.14   0.14   0.14
Subtotal                          1.29      0.14    1.43       -    0.17    0.30    0.32   0.32   0.32
V. Base Cost
Matale                                   17.68     3.41   21.09    0.74   3.62    3.52    3.99   4.44   4.78
Puttalam                                  8.72     1.42   10.14    0.53   1.71    1.74    1.87   2.07   2.22
Subtotal                         26.40      4.83   31.23    1.27   5.33    5.26    5.86   6.51   7.00
VI. Physical Contingencies
Matale                                    1.77     0.34    2.11    0.08   0.36    0.35    0.40   0.44   0.48
Puttalam                                  0.87     0.14    1.01    0.05   0.17    0.17    0.19   0.21   0.22
Subtotal                          2.64      0.48    3.12    0.13   0.53    0.52    0.59   0.65   0.70
VII. Price Contingencies
Matale                                   11.63     1.82   13.45    0.14   0.84    1.54    2.45   3.64   4.84
Puttalam                                  5.75     0.62    6.37    0.11   0.40    0.77    1.14   1.70   2.25
Subtotal                         17.38      2.44   19.82    0.25   1.24    2.31    3.59   5.34   7.09
Subtotal - Matale                31.08      5.57   36.65    0.96   4.82    5.41    6.84   8.52  10.10
Subtotal - Puttalam              15.34      2.18   17.52    0.69   2.28    2.68    3.20   3.98   4.69
Total                            46.42      7.75   54.17    1.65   7.10    8.09   10.04  12.50  14.79
60



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries (Puttalam District)
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                      Total Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign   Total        1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
----------------------------------Rs M----------------------------------
I. Civil Works
Fishery Service Center            0.47    0.20      0.67         -    0.17    0.50        -        -       -
District Office Buildings         0.38    0.16      0.54       u.22   0.26    0.06        -        -       -
Staff Quarters.                  0.17    0.07       0.24       0.05   0.15    0.04        -        -       -
Jetties                           2.98    1.00      3.98         -    1.91    1.92       0.15      -       -
Installed Beacon Lights          0.08    0.04       0.12         -    0.07    0.05        -        -       -
Subtotal                  4.08    1.47      5.55        0.27   2.56    2.57       0.15     -       -
II. Equipment                           0.14    1.00      1.14        0.28   0.72    0.14       -        -        -
III. Supervision and Admininstrative   0.60    0.52        1.12          -    0.08    0.21       0.29    0.27      0.27
IV. Base Cost                           4.82    2.99      7.81        0.55   3.36    2.92      0.44    0.27       0.27
V. Physical Contingencies              0.48    0.30      0.78        0.05   0.34    0.29       0.04    0.03      0.03
Subtotal  5.30    3.29      8.59        0.60   3.70    3.21       0.48    0.30      0.30
VI. Price Contingencies                 2.19    1.18      3.37        0.12   0.95    1.52       0.29    0.22      0.22
Total     7.49    4.47    11.96         0.72   4.65    4.73       0.77    0.52      0.57
lb



ANNEX 1
Table 10
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Water Management
Cost Estimates and SChedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                  Annual Expenditures
Local Foreign Total        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-----------------------Ra M------------------------------
I. Civil Works
A. Rehabilitation of Major Tanks &
Canal systems Including Control
Structure for Water Management
Matale                               4.39    1.81      6.20      -    0.20   1.50    2.00   2.00   0.50
Puttalam                             9.90    4.30    14.20       -    1.00   3.00    4.00   4.00   2.20
Subtotal                         14.29    6.11    20.40       -    1.20   4.50    6.00   6.00   2.70
B. Rehabilitation of Minor Village
Tanks/Anicuts, 2 Canal Systems
Including Water Management
Matale(40 schemes)                  10.00    1.74    11.74       -    1.00   2.50    3.00   3.00   2.24
Puttalam (200 schemes)              35.85    6.35    42.20       -    3.50   9.00   12.00  10.00   7.70
Subtotal                         45.85    8.09    53.94       -    4.50  11.50   15.00  13.00   9.94
Subtotal - Matale                14.39    3.55    17.94       -    1.20   4.00    5.00   5.00   2.74
Subtotal - Puttalam              45.75   10.65    56.40       -    4.50  12.00   16.00  14.00   9.90
Subtotal - Civil Works           60.14   14.20    74.34       -    5.70  16.00   21.00  19.00  12.64
II. Equipment
Matale:
Dept. of Agrarian Services         0.15    2.17      2.32    0.34   1.66   0.32
Irrigation Department              0.56    7.01      7.57    0.53   6.40   0.64
Subtotal                          0.71       9.16   9.89    0.87   8.06   0.96
Puttalam:
Dept. of Agrarian Services         0.16    2.42      2.58    0.34   1.66   0.56
Irrigation Department              0.74    9.79    10.53    1.09   8.44   1.00
Subtotal                          0.90   12.21    13.11    1.43  10.10   1.58
Kurunegala:
Dept. of Agrarian Services         0.17    2.63      2.80    0.54   2.21   0.05
Irrigation Department               -       -         -       _       _
Subtotal                          0.17    2.63      2.80    0.54   2.21   0.05
Subtotal - Equipment              1.78   24.02    25.80    2.84  20.37   2.59
III. Supervision and Administration
Matale:
Dept. of Agrarian Services          2.20    0.69      2.89      -    0.33   0.64    0.64   0.64   0.64
Irrigation Dept.                    2.20    0.77      2.97      -    0.33   0.66    0.66   0.66   0.66
Subtotal                          4.40    1.46      5.86      -    0.66   1.30    1.30   1.30   1.30
Puttalam:
Dept. of Agrarian Services          2.75    0.92      3.67      -    0.43   0.81    0.81   0.81   0.81
Irrigation Dept.                    2.67    0.88      3.55      -    0.39   0.79    0.79   0.79   0,79
Subtotal                          5.42    1.80      7.22           0 0.82   1.60    1.60   1.60   1.60
Kurunegala:
Dept. of Agrarian Services          4.21    1.41      5.62      -    0.62   1.25    1.25   1.25   1.25
Irrigation Dept.                    0.12    2.03      0.15      -    0.03   0.03    0.03   0.03   u.03
Subtotal                          4.33    1.44      5.77        -0 .65   1.28    1.28   1.28   1.28
Subtotal - Super. & Ad=in.       14.15    4.70    18.85       _    2.13   4.18    4.18   4.18   4.18
IV. Technical Assistance
Matala                                0.30    0.05      0.35    0.02   0.11   0.08    0.08   0.06    -
Puttala=                              5.09    0.85      5.94    0.29   1.40   1.39    1.39   1.22   0.25
Kurunegala                            3.83    0.65      4.48    0.27   1.10   1.14    1.14   0.83
Subtotal                          9.22    1.55    10.77    0 .59   2.61   2.61    7.61   2.1-1  0.25
V. Base Cost
Matale                               19.80   14.24    34.04    0.89  10.03   6.34    6.38   6.36   4.04
Puttalam                             57.16   25.51    82.67    1.72  16.82  16.57   18.99  16.82  11.75
Kurunegala                            8.33    4.72    13.05    0.81   3.96   2.47    2.42   2.11   1.28
Subtotal                         85.29   44.47   129.76    3.42  30.81  25.3    7.79  25.29  17.07
VI. Physical Contingencies
Matale                                1.98    1.42      3.40    0.09   1.00   0.63    0.64   0.64   0.40
Puttalam                              5.72    2.55      8.27    0.17   1.68   1.66    1.90   1.68   1.18
Kurunegala                            0.83    0.47      1.30    0.08   0.40   0.25    0.24   0.21   0.12
Subtotal                          853T   4.44    12.97    0.34   3.08   2.54    2.78   2.53   1.70
VII. Price Contingencies
Matale                               14.55    4.95    19.50    0.10   1.49   2.97    4.53   5.90   4.51
Puttalam                             41.52   11.47    52.99    0.20   3.00   7.89   13.30  15.31  13.29
Kurunegala                            3.87    1.44      5.31    0.09   0.53   0.82    1.16   1.41   1.30
Subtotal                         59.94   17.86    77.80    0.39   5.02  1l.68   18.99  22.62  19.10
Subtotal - Matale                36.33   20.61    56.94    1.08  12.52   9.94   11.55  12.90   8.95
Subtotal - Puttalam             104.40   39.53   143.93    2.09  21.50  26.12   34.19  33.81  26.22
Subtotal - Kurunegala            13.03    6.63    19.66    0.98   4.89   3.54    3.82   3.73   2.70
Total                           153.76   66.71   220.53    4.15  38.91  39.60   49.56  50.44  37.87
62



ANNEX 1
Table 11
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Groundwater Exploration (Puttalam District)
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost
Local  Foreign Total  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
I.  Civil Worksl-                         --s M-----
1. Construction of 60 nos investi-
gation core drill holes in the
limestone basin and in crystal-
line hard rock area.               0.79   0.11   0.90       -    0.20   0.40   0.30      -
2. Construction of 8" dia test
wells without the limestonebasin,
crystalline rock area and in the
coastal sand and alluvial basin
(35 nos).                          0.48   0.32   0.80       -    0.10   0.20   0.30   0.20
3. Construction of 6" dia test wells
covering the tectonically dis-
bursed and other deeply weathered
basins (25 nos).                    0.28   0.19   0.47      -      -    0.10   0.27   0.10
4.  Office Building                     0.12   0.05   0.17   0.15   0.02       -      -       -
Subtotal               1.67   0.67   2.34   0.15   0.32   0.70   0.87   0.30
II. Equipment                               0.20   1.88   2.08   2.08       -      -      -       -
III. Technical Assistance
1.  Training and Study Tours              -    0.20   0.20      -    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05
IV. Supervision and Administration          0.60   0.14   0.74   0.09   0.17   0.17   0.16   0.15
V.  Base Cost                               2.47   2.89   5.36   2.32   0.54   0.92   1.08   0.50
VI. Physical Contingencies                  0.24   0.29   0.53   0.23   0.05   0.09   0.11   0.05
VII. Price Contingencies                     1.78   1.00   2.78   0.31   0.27   0.65   1.00   0.55
TOTAL                  4.49   4.18   8.67   2.86   0.86   1.66   2.19   1.10
I lncludes salaries and related costs of drillers and associated staffs (i.e. drillers
and assistants, technical assistants, mechanic and draftsman).
63



ANNEX 1
Table 12
SRI LANKA
SRCOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJTFfT
Rural Water Supply
Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule
Total Cost                      Total Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total         1981   1982      1983      1984      1985
--------- --Rs M -- -----------------
I. Civil Works
Matale District
Construction of 100, 3" dia. wells as per
UNICEF standard                                  0.90      0.60   1.50         0.30   0.40        0.40    0.30      0.10
Puttalam District
Construction of 150, 3" dia. wells as per           1.35      0.90   2.25         0.45   0.60        0.60    0.45      0.15
UNICEF standard
Subtotal                          2.25      1.50   3.75         0.75   1.00        1.00    0.75      0.25
II. Equipment
Matale                                              0.10      0.88   0.98          0.98     -           -       -        -
Puttalam                                            0.10      0.92   1.02         1.02      -           -       -        -
-      Subtotal                          0.20      1.80   2.00          2.00     -           -       -        -
III. Supervision and Administration
Matale                                              a.25      0.25   0.50          0.06   0.11       0.11    0.11      0.11
Puttalam                                            0.28      0.27   0.55         0.06   0.12        0.13    0.12      0.12
Subtotal                          0.53      0.52   1.05         0.12   0.23        0.24    0.23      0.23
IV. Base Cost
Matale                                              1.25      1.73   2.98          1.34   0.51       0.51    0.41      0.21
Puttalam                                            1.73      2.09   3.82          1.53   0.72       0.73    0.57      0.27
Subtotal                          2.98      3.82   6.80         2.87   1.23        1.24    0.98      0.48
V. Phvsical Contingencies.
Matale                                               0.12     0.17   0.29          0.13   0.05       0.05    0.04      0.02
Puttalam                                            0.17      0.21   0.38          0.15   0.07       0.07    0.06      0.03
Subtotal                          0.29      0.38   0.67         0.28   0.12        0.12    0.10      0.05
VI. Price Contingencies
Matale                                               0.79     0.68   1.47          0.23   0.27       0.36    0.38      0.23
Puttalam                                             1.11     0.90   2.01          0.28   0.38       0.52    0.53       0.30
Subtotal                          1.90      1.58   3.48         0.51    0.65       0.88    0.91      0.53
Subtotal - Matale                 2.16      2.58   4.74         1.70   0.83        0.92    0.83      0.46
Subtotal - Puttalam               3.01      3.20   6.21         1.96   1.17        1.32    1.16      0.60
Total                             5.17      5.78  10.95          3.66   2.00       2.24    1.99      1.06
64



ANNEX 1
Table 13
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                      Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign   Total   1980   1981   1982   1983    1984   1985
----------------- -------------RsM-----------------------
I. Civil Works
Matale                                   14.66    3.37    18.03       -    1.85   3.59    5.44    4.08   3.07
Puttalam                                 11.40    2.42    13.82       -    0.89   2.51    4.91    3.44   2.07
Subtotal                             26.06    5.79    31.85       -    2.74   6.10   10.35   T7525  5.14
II. Equipment
Matale                                    0.32    6.04      6.36   0.64   5.08   0.64        -       -        -
Puttalam                                  0.31    5.82      6.13   0.62   4.90   0.61        -       -        -
Subtotal                              0.63   11.86    12.49   1.26   9.98   1.25         -        -       -
III.  Supervision & Administration
Matale                                    4.32    2.88      7.20    -      0.80   1.60    1.60    1.60   1.60
Puttalam                                  4.35    2.90      7.25    -      0.81   1.61    1.61    1.61   1.61
Subtotal                              8.67    5.78    14.45    -        1.61   3.21    3.21    3.21   3.21
IV.  Base Cost
Matale                                   19.30   12.29    31.59   0.64   7.73   5.83    7.04    5.68   4.67
Puttalam                                 16.06   11.14    27.20   0.62   6.60   4.73    6.52    5.05   3.68
Subtotal                             35.36   23.43    58.79   1.26  14.33  10.56   13.56   10.73   8.35
V.  Physical Contingencies
Matale                                    1.93    1.23      3.16   0.07   0.77   0.58    0.70    0.57   0.47
Puttalam                                  1.61    1.11      2.72   0.06   0.66   0.48    0.65    0.50   0.37
Subtotal                              3.54    2.34       5.88   0.13   1.43   1.06    1.35    1.07   0.84
VI. Price Contingencies
Matale                                   14.37    5.33    19.70   0.07   1.38   2.79    5.02    5.24   5.20
Puttalam                                 12.03    4.59    16.62   0.07   1.05   2.20    4.63    4.63   4.04
Subtotal                             26.40    9.92    36.32   0.14   2.43   4.99    9.65    9.87   9.24
Subtotal - Matale                    35.60   18.85    54.45   0.78   9.88   9.20   12.76   11.49  10.34
Subtotal - Puttalam                  29.70   16.84    46.54   0.75   8.31   7.41   11.80   10.18   8.09
Total                                65.30   35.69   100.99   1.53  18.19  16.61   24.56   21.67  18.43
65



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Cost Estimates and Schedules of Expenditure
Total Cost                Total Annual Expenditure
Local  Foreign  Total    1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
-----Rs Million------   --------------Rs Million----------
1.  Civil Works: Electrificiation of 10 Rural Areas
(i)  Matale                              5.37   2.65       8.02       -   1.00  1.70  2.50  2.50  0.32
(ii)  Puttalam                             2.93   1.50      4.43       -   0.50  1.50  1.43  1.00    -
Sub-total                      8.30   4.15    12.45            1.50  3.20  3.93  3.50  0.32
II. Base Cost
Matale                              5.37   2.65       8.02       -   1.00  1.70  2.50  2.50  0.32
Puttalam                            2.93   1.50       4.43       -   0.50  1.50  1.43  1.00    -
Sub-total                      8.30   4.15    12.45        -   1.50  3.20  3.93  3.50  0.32
III. Physical Contingencies
(i)  Matale                               0.54   0.26      0.80       -   0.10  0.17  0.25  0.25  0.03
(ii)  Puttalam                             0.29   0.15      0.44       -   0.05  0.15  0.14  0.10    -
Sub-total                      0.83   0.41      1.24       -   0.15  0.32  0;39  0.35  0.03
IV. Price Contingencies
Matale                              3.94   1.95       5.89       -   0.33  0.93  1.85  2.41  0.37
Puttalam                            1.92   1.08       3.00       -   0.16  0.82  1.06  0.06    -
Sub-total                      5.86   3.03      8.89       -   0.49  1.75  2.91  3.37  0.37
Total Matale                        9.85   4.86    14.71         -   1.43  2.80  4.60  5.16  0.72
Total Puttalam                      5.14   2.73       7.87       -   0.71  2.47  2.63  2.06    -
Total                              14.99   7.59    22.58         -   2.14  5.27  7.23  7.22  0.72
k1
tD >C
-  ,
C.'



ANNEX I
Table 15
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                    Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
----------------------- ----Rs M-----------------
I. Civil Works
Matale                      2.48    1.05    3.53       1.06   0.87   1.20   0.40
Puttalam                    3.18    1.36    4.54       2.58   1.76   0.20
Subtotal                  5.66    2.41    8.07       3.64   2.63   1.40   0.40
II.  Equipment and vehicles
Matale                      0.20    1.84    2.04       2.04
Puttalam                    0.31    2.88    3.19       2.39   0.80
Subtotal                 4.51    4.72    5.23       4.43   0.80
III. Supervision and Administration
Matale                      0.67    0.25    0.92       0.15   0.16   0.17   0.22   0.22
Puttalam                    1.50    0.38    1.88       0.16   0.43   0.43   0.43   0.43
Subtotal                 2.17    0.63    2.80       0.31   0.59   0.60   0.65   0.65
IV   Base Cost
Matale                      3.35    3.14    6.49       3.25   1.03   1.37   0.62   0.22
Puttalam                    4.99    4.62    9.61       5.13   2.99   0.63   0.43   0.43
Subtotal                 8.34    7.76   16.10       8.38   4.02   2.00   1.05   0.65
V. Physical Contingencies
Matale                      0.34    0.31    0.65       0.33   0.10   0.14   0.06   0.02
Puttalam                    0.50    0.46    0.96       0.51   0.30   0.06   0.05   0.04
Subtotal                 0.84    0.77    1.61       0.84   0.40   T.2i0   0.11   0.06
VI. Price Contingencies
Matale                      1.87    1.06    2.93       0.62   0.54   0.99   0.56   0.22
Puttalam                    2.42    1.24    3.66       1.15   1.32   0.41   0.35   0.43
Subtotal                 4.29    2.30    6.59       1.77   1.86   1.40   0.91   0.65
Total Matale                5.56    4.51   10.07       4.20   1.67   2.50   1.24   0.46
Total Puttalam              7.91    6.32   14.23       6.79   4.61   1.10   0.83   0.90
Total Cost              13.47   10.83   24.30    10.99   6.28   3.60   2.07   1.6
67



ANNEX 1
Table 16
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Educational and Vocational Training
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost               Annual Expenditures
Local  Foreign  Total      1981     1982    1983   1984    1985
I. Civil Works                                              ------------Rs M---------------------------
Matale                                  3.67    1.57    5.24       2.04      1.56    1.09   0.55      -
Puttalam                                4.92    2.10    7.02       2.04      1.99    1.66   1.33      -
Subtotal                    8.59    3.67   12.26       4.08     3.55    2.75   1.88
II.  Equipment and Vehicles
Matale                                  0.53    1.55    2.08       1.58      0.26    0.18   0.06
Puttalam                                0.42    0.64    1.06       0.86      0.20      -      -
Subtotal                    0.95    2.19    3.14       2.44     0.46     0.18   0.06
III.  Technical Assistance
Matale                                  0.07      -      0.07      0.02      0.03    0.02     -
Puttalam                                0.05     -       0.05      0.03      0.01    0.01     -
Subtotal                    0.12     -      0.12       0.05     0.04    0.03    --
IV. Supervision and Administration
Matale                                  1.90    1.02    2.92       0.53      0.54    0.58   0.62    0.65
Puttalam                                1.55    0.30    0.85       0.05      0.13    0.19   0.23    0.25
Subtotal                    2.45    1.32    3.77       0.58     0.67    0.77   0.85    0.90
V. Base Cost
Matale                                  5.68    3.88    9.56        3.99    2.24    1.74   1.09    0.50
Puttalam                                6.43    3.30    9.73        3.16    2.48    1.99   1.70    0.40
Subtotal                   12.11    7.18   19.29       7.15    4.72    3.73   2.79    0.90
VI. Physical Contingencies
Matale                                  0.57    0.39    1.96       0.40      0.23    0.17   0.11    0.05
Puttalam                                0.64    0.33    0.97       0.31      0.25    0.20   0.17    0.04
Subtotal                    1.21    0.72    1.93       0.71     0.48    0.37   0.28    0.09
VII. Price Contingencies
Matale                                  3.02    1.59    4.61       0.94      1.07    1.15   1.94    0.51
Puttalam                                3.94    1.59    5.53       0.83      1.27    1.44   1.59    0.40
Subtotal                    6.96    3.18   10.14       1.77     2.34    2.59   2.53    0.91
Subtotal - Matale           9.27    5.86    5.13       5.33     3 54    3.06   2.14    1.06
Subtotal - Puttalam       11.01    5.22   16.23        4.30     4.00    3.63   3-46    0.84
Total                      20.28   11.08   31.36       9.63     7.54    6.69   5.60    1.90
68



ANNEX 1
Table 17
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Coordination and Supervision
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost                       Annual Expenditures
Local   Foreign  Total   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
I. Civil Works                                   ---------------------------------Rs M -------------------------=
Project Office and quarters for Puttalam    0.73         0.30   1.03    0.57   0.36   0.10    -          -      -       -
Project Office and quarters for Matale         0.50      0.21   0.71    0.35   0.36    -         -       -      -       -
Subtotal                        1.23      0.51   1.74    0.92   0.72   0.10    -         -       -      -
II. Equipment and Vehicles
Regional Development Division MPI              0.02      0.13   0.15       -     0.15    -       -       -      -      -
Puttalam Project Office                        0.06      0.10   0.16    0.09   0.07    -         -       -      -      -
Matale Project Office                          0.06      0.10   0.16    0.09   0.07    -         -       -      -
Subtotal                        0.14      0.33   0.47    0.18   0.29    -         -      -       -      -
III. Technical Assistance Regional Develop.
Division
Supervisory Consultant                         5.75      0.99   6.74    0.09   1.70   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.14   0.42
Monitoring and Evaluation                      5.00      0.75   5.75       -     1.50   1.00   0.75   0.75   1.25   0.50
Subtotal                       10.75      1.74  12.49    0.09   3.20   2.13   1.88   1.88   2.39   0.92
IV  Supervision and Administration
Regional Development Division                  1.59      0.33   1.92    0.16   0.32   0.32   0.32   0.32   0.32   0.16
Puttalam Project Office                        1.68      0.35   2.03    0.17   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.16
Matale Project Office                          1.68       0.35   2.03    0.17   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.16
Subtotal                        4.95      1.03   5.98    0.50   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   0.48
V. Base Cost
Regional Development Division                 12.36      2.20  14.56    0.25   3.67   2.45   2.20   2.20   2.71   1.08
Puttalam                                     .2.47       0.75   3.22    0.83   0.77   0.44   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.16
Matale                                         2.24      0.60   2.90    U.61   0.77   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.34   0.16
Subtotal                       18.07      3.61  20.68    1.69   5.21   3.23   2.88   2.88   3.39   1.40
VI. Physical Contingencies
Regional Development Division                  1.24      0.22   1.46    0.03   0.37   0.24   0.22   0.22   0.27   0.11
Puttalam                                       0.25      0.07   0.32    0.08   0.08   0.05   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.02
Matale                                         0.22      0.07   0.29    0.06   0.07   0.03   0.03   0.04   0.04   0.02
Subtotal                        1.81      0.36   2.07    0.17   0.52   0.32   0.28   0.29   0.34   0.15
VII. Price Contingencies
Regional Development Division                  7.84      1.32   9.16    0.06   0.83   1.06   1.35   1.80   2.74   1.32
Puttalam                                       1.33      0.35   1.68    0.24   0.21   0.20   0.21   0.28   0.34   0.20
Matale                                         1.23      0.33   1.56    0.17   0.21   0.15   0.21   0.28   0.34   0.20
Subtotal                       10.40      2.00  12.40    0.47   1.25   1.41   1.77   2.36   3.42   1.72
Subtotal - Regional Develop. 21.44        3.74  25.18    0.34   4.87   3.75   3.77   4.22   5.72   2.51
Subtotal - Puttalam             4.05      1.17   5.22    1.15   1.06   0.69   0.58   0.65   0.71   0.38
Subtotal - Matale               3.69      1.06   4.75    0.84   1.05   0.52   0.58   0.66   0.72   0.38
Total                          29.18      5.97  35.15    2.33   6.98   4.96   4.93   5.53   7.15   3.27
69



ANNEX 1
Table 18
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
Semi-annual        Cumulative
--------------US$ M----------
1981
1st Semester                            1.0                1.0
2nd Semester                            2.0                3.0
1982
1st Semester                            3.0                6,0
2nd Semester                            3.0               9.0
1983
1st Semester                            3.0              12.0
2nd Semester                            3.5               15.5
1984
1st Semester                            3.5              19.0
2nd Semester                            3.5               22.5
1985
1st Semester                            4.0               26.4
2nd Semester                            3.5              30.0
1986
1st Semester                            3.5               33.5
70



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
General Lending Terms and Conditions
A. General
1.        Agricultural loans would not be given to defaulters and borrowers
would be advised to have an agro-identity card (similar to that used in
Kurunegala RDP). For better credit control and supervision, banks will
exchange list of defaulters and farmers would be limited to borrowing from
only one bank.
2.        Before sanctioning each loan, field officers would inspect the land
and assess the viability of the proposed investment and study the repayment
capacity of each farmer. Disbursement would be in cash and in kind with
direct payment to suppliers for the portion to be lent in cash. Banks would
service loans with appropriate visitations with farmers until loans are
repaid.
B.   Terms and Conditions
3.        Maximum area to be financed would be limited to:  10 ac for paddy;
five ac for subsidiary crops; 25 ac for coconut; five ac for minor export
crops; and 2 ac of mulberrry.
4.        Cultivation loans for paddy and other field crops (including main-
tenance of mulberrry) would be made for a period of six months with provisions
for a two-month extension, because of market conditions. Cultivation loans
for coconut and installation of mulberries would be repayable up to five years
including up to a two year grace period. Loans for minor export crops would
be repayable up to 10 years including up to a seven year grace period. Loans
for farm machinery and equipment (loans for tractor, shallow tubewells, hand
sprayers and pumps, silkworm rearing sheds and vehicles) would be repayable in
semi-annual installments over a maximum period of five years. A down payment
of 10% to 25% would be required for farm machinery and equipment. Farm
machinery loans would also be available to private sector farm machinery
pools. A down payment of at least 25% would be required from such pools and
amortization would be in quaterly installments over a maximum period of five
years. Loans for deep tubewells, fertilizer stores and silkworm rearing
sheds would be repayable up tp 10 years including up to two year grace period.
71



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        For cultivation loans, the security would be in form of crop bonds
or guarantee of any other two persons acceptable to the banks. For farm equip-
ment, a lien would be taken on the equipment in addition to the guarantee of
any two persons acceptable to the banks. In the case of fertilizer stores
and silkworm rearing sheds, an hypothecation will be taken on the store or
shed.
C.   Refinancing and Guarantee
6.        In line with on-going.GOSL refinancing policies, the Central Bank
would provide 100% refinancing for cultivation loans and 70% for farm machin-
ery, equipment, and storage. PB and BC would lend at their own risk and would
not be given any GOSL guarantee against default.
D.   Interest Rates and Spreads
7.        In line with on-going GOSL policy, interest rates to be charged to
farmers would be: 9% 1/ per annum for cultivation loans; 14% for two and
four wheel tractors and vehicles:  and, 10.5% 2/ for power sprayers, dugwells,
tubewell fertilizer stores and silkworm rearing sheds and rearing trays.
Refinance from the Central Bank would be: 2% for cultivation loans; 9% for
two and four wheeled tractors; and, 4% for power sprayers, wells, fertilizer
stores and silkworm rearing sheds and trays. The present spread is considered
adequate. However, the Central Bank, through its new Rural Credit Department,
would study from time to time the adequacy of the spread and the level of the
onlending interest and furnish the results of the study to IDA. Spreads and
levels of onlending interest would be readjusted if necessary in consultation
with IDA.
1/   With a penal rate of 5% per annum for late payment.
2/   With a penal rate of 3% per annum for late payment.
72



ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Minor Export Crops
General Procedure for the Small Homegarden Subsidy Scheme
1.         The Small Garden Subsidy scheme would be applicable for both pure
stands and mixed plantings of minor export crops with emphasis on cocoa, cof-
fee, pepper, cloves, nutmeg and cardamon.  It would apply to small homegarden
holdings willing to plant 1/8 ac to 1/2 ac with such crops.
2.         Farmers desiring to participate in the program would submit an
application, to the Department of Minor Export Crop (DMEC). DMEC staff would
visit the farmer plots to determine eligibility and would issue the subsidy
permit.
3.         DMEC staff would advise farmers on proper land preparation.  Once
the land is prepared and shaded, DMEC would deliver free planting materials
to the farmer on an agreed date.  The DMEC staff would determine the number
of plants to be issued. However, there should be a minimum of one hundred
new planting points per half acre (or proportionate less number for smaller
extents).  Planting would be done under the direct supervision of the DMEC's
staff.  Planting materials valued at Rs 100/half acre (or proportionately less
for smaller extents) would be given to farmers.
4.         A cash payment of Rs 800/half acre (for proportionately less for
smaller extents) would be paid 12 month's after the date of planting, provided
the plants are established and maintained in good conditions. In the event of
sporadic plant failure, farmers would be required to fill the vacancies and
bring it up to the required standard before the payment is made. Farmers will
have to pay for planting material required for filling vacancies.
73



ANNEX 4
Page I
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Guidelines for Plans and Design for Rehabilitation
Major and Minor Irrigation Schemes
General Information
1.        Because of the large number (ten major and 200 minor schemes in
Puttalam district and five major and 40 village schemes in Matale district)
and wide dispersal of the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated, it is
necessary to have agreed guidelines for the selection, preparation of plans
and design, construction, and operation and maintenance (O&M) to be carried
out by Irrigation Department (ID) and Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) 1/
with minimal supervision of IDA. Consequently, these guidelines have been
prepared to assist ID and DAS in carrying out their assigned responsibilities
under the project in a manner satisfactory to IDA. These guidelines are to be
followed quite closely by ID in rehabilitating major schemes. However, the
size and complexity of minor schemes varies considerably, and except for
selection criteria for minor schemes, these guidelines should be utilized as
appropriate and prudent while maintaining their intent and general character.
In addition to these guidelines, all schemes shall be planned, designed and
constructed in accordance with ID specification. Individual plans shall be
prepared for all schemes and shall include an integrated program of water
management--including operational procedures.
2.        Local Planning and Supervisory Consultants will be made available
by the project to assist ID personnel in carrying out their responsibilities.
Planning consultants would be under the direction of ID. They will plan and
design about 4 major and 350 village schemes in Matale, Puttalam and Kurunegala
districts. Such plans and designs must be technically acceptable to ID. Super-
visory consultants shall review these plans and designs to determine their
consistency with these guidelines and ID specifications. In addition, they
shall inspect all schemes to determine the quantity and quality of work per-
formed and give written notification to the Project Director of their findings.
3.        Plans for the first five major and 15 minor schemes shall be
submitted for review and approval of IDA as a prerequisite for authorized
construction under the project (two major and six village schemes from Matale
and three major and nine minor schemes from Puttalam).
1/   ID responsible for selecting, planning, design and construction of all
schemes as well as O&M of major schemes, whereas DAS responsibilities are
limited to O&M of minor schemes.
74



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Basic Criteria for Selection of Schemes
4.        Major schemes to be rehabilitated shall be those identified in the
Staff Appraisal Report--any variation requires IDA concurrence. Minor
schemes 1/ to be rehabilitated must meet the following agreed criteria and ID
shall indicate in the plans and certificate of work completed for each scheme
that this criteria has been met:
(a) Minor Tanks:
(i)  command area under each tank should not be less than 20 ac
other than in exceptional cases dictated by technical
requirements 1/;
(ii) useful storage of the tank should not be less than 3 ac ft
per ac of command area in the dry zone and 2.0 ac ft per ac
in the intermediate zone 2/;
(iii) tank should have a record of being filled at least three
times during the last five years; or hydrologic studies
indicate comparable yield for damaged tanks;
(iv) the tank should directly benefit at least ten families;
(v)  incremental area bought under direct irrigation should be
at least ten times the privately irrigated land submerged,
or five times other cultivated lands submerged; and
(vi) rehabilitation cost, including water management facilities,
should not be more than Rs 8,500 per ac of incremental
irrigated area or Rs 5,000 per ac for the total commanded
area. 2/ 3/
(b) Minor Anicuts:
(i) hydrologic data and studies for an independent anicut should
demonstrate minimum flows in the supplying stream(s) to supply
1/   Notably where a number of tanks are in cascade in the same catchment
and an upstream tank requires strengthening (even if commanding less
than 20 ac) to avoid damage to a downstream tank in case of failure.
2/   Minor schemes which do not meet the cost per ac and/or supply criteria
may be included in the project, after consultation with IDA, provided
they are economically justified (economic rate of return of at least
equal to 15%. See para llb).
3/   Such costs should include all civil works and physical contingencies,
valued at mid-1980 prices, but exclude price contingencies, engineering
and administration.
75



ANNEX 4
Page 3
a minimum of one cusec for each 40 acres of commanded area
during the critical crop water requirement period;
(ii) command area to be irrigated by the anicut should not be less
than 20 acres;
(iii) anicut would directly benefit at least 10 families; and
(iv) rehabilitation cost, including water management facilities,
should not be more than Rs 8,500 per acre of incremental
irrigated area or Rs 5,000 per acre for the commanded area.
Liaison with Farmers' Groups
5.        ID and DAS officials shall maintain close communication with groups
of farmers associated with each irrigation scheme to be rehabilitated. Prior
to initiation of planning, ID should arrange, in cooperation with the GA for
major schemes and DAS for minor schemes, a meeting with the farmer group for
the purpose of: (a) explaining the proposed rehabilitation project; (b) soli-
citing farmer input into the planning; and (c) discussing farmer donated labor
during construction--particularly for the distribution system, possible lands
and right-of-way requirements, and improved operation of the system. Farmer
participation in (c) should be used by ID as basis for setting priorities for
rehabilitating minor schemes. A followup meeting with the farmer groups
should be scheduled to explain the final plans, designs, cost estimates,
construction schedule, operation program, and arrange for appropriate farmer
participation. If local planning consultants are involved with the planning
and design of the scheme being discussed, they as well as the concerned KVS
and appropriate Subject Matter Specialist from the Extension Service should be
invited to attend and participate in these meetings.
General Description of the Scheme
6.        The following descriptive information must be furnished for each
scheme:
(a) Type of Scheme (e.g. Major tank, minor tank, minor anicut,
etc.) .............
(b)  Location of Scheme ...............
(c) Irrigation service area
(i) Command area:
Current ...........  Full development .
(ii)  Current cultivated area:
.......... .ac maha .......... ac yala
(iii)  Full development under the project
.......... .ac maha     .....      ac yala
76



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(d) Water duty
(i)  Current .............. maha ..     yala
(ii) Full development under project
........... maha ..                yala
(e)  Cropping pattern, yield and production
(i) Current
Crop      Area      Yield      Production
......... ......  . ....  . ........  ..........
(ii) Full development under Project
Crop      Area      Yield      Production
(f) Benefitted people
(i)  Number of farm units
Current ...........  Full Development .
(ii) Average size farm unit
Current ............Full Development ..
(g) Soils information
(i)  Major soils ...........
.......................
(ii)  Topography ............
.......................
(h)  Present problems and/or conditions (describe the nature and
extent of the problem or condition) .......................
...........................................................
(i)  Proposed Solutions (describe plans and extent of rehabilitation)
................................................................
(j)  Estimated time required for full development ....         ........ years.
(k)  Estimated life of scheme ..... ......... years.
77



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Surveys and Investigation 1/
7.        An index plan (sketch) shall be prepared to a scale of about 1" = I
mile. It shall show all the upper tanks in the same basin. The tanks may be
numbered serially from the tank under consideration upwards. Interlinking
feeder channels, surplus channels from other tanks and streams, if any, must
be carefully marked on the index plan. Major physical features such as
villages, roads, railways and other important land marks should be indicated
and proximity of the tank or anicut and catchment areas should also be marked
and measured. Show location of structures required. Indicate type and
identify each structure by number.
8.        Detail survey of the tank shall be made and plans prepared to a
scale of about 1" = 200 ft. The tank bund, surplus weir, and the sluice shall
be plotted on the survey plan. The survey plan should show:
(a) full details of the tank bund;
(b) all the masonry works in the bund such sluices, surplus weir,
etc. with a clear description of their type and physical
condition;
(c) the existing breaches in the bund, if any;
(d) the existing stone pitching of the side slopes of the bund;
(e) the physical condition of the interlinking feeder channel, if
any, and a brief description;
(f) the position and description of the bench marks;
(g) survey should cover the entire water spread (at FTL) of the tank
and also extend at least 5 ft above the existing FTL or 5 ft
above the proposed FTL, in case raising of the tank bund is
envisaged in the rehabilitation scheme. The capacity-elevation
curve or a capacity-elevation table shall be prepared to deter-
mine actual storage available taking into account the silting
in the tank bed, before the rehabilitation. The capacity must
be calculated from the lowest bed level for each one foot height
of water level up to the highest contour taken;
(h) the surplus weir channel and the main irrigation channels; and
(i) the feeder channels and catchwater drains should also be indi-
cated along with their bed and tank levels.
1/   Supplemental material to these guidelines have been supplied to GOSL
in form of General Procedures on: Surveys and Investigations; Design;
Construction; and Water Management.
78



ANNEX 4
Page 6
9.        Structure data:
(a) List all structures to be rehabilitated (table below is suggested).
Use the same identifying numbers as in paragraph 7.
LIST OF STRUCTURES TO BE REHABILITATED OR INSTALLED
Identifying           Type of           Description (current
Number            Structure        condition or requirement
1.            Surplus Weir       (Capacity inadequate 
Channel          structural damage .
etc.)
2.
3.
(b) Prepare a single line drawing for each structure in 9(a) above (only
one drawing required for structures with common design). Show
dimensions, elevations, etc.
(c) Prepare hydraulic computations for those listed in 9(a) above (only
one computation required for common structures).
10.       Cost Estimates
(a) Detail estimate of capital costs by construction year shall be
prepared for each scheme to be rehabilitated. Engineering and
administrative overhead costs should be shown separately.
(b) Estimate of O&M costs shall be prepared (including admin-
istrative overhead) but should be presented separately.
(c) Estimates of World Food Programme funding or contribution of free
labor by any community organization should be specified and quan-
tified, but not included in (a) above.
11.       Economic Feasibility
(a) Economic feasibility of each major tank to be rehabilitated shall
be determined. Economic rate of return on proposed investments
should be at least 15%.
(b) No economic feasibility calculation shall be required for rehabi-
litating minor schemes meeting the (cost/ac) criteria in paragraph
4, however, minor schemes with higher per/ac cost may be included
in the project, after consultation with IDA if economically
justified (economic rate of return of 15% or greater).
79



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Design Criteria
12.       Proposals for rehabilitating an existing tank bund for providing
increased storage by increasing the height of the tank bund will have to be
based on the strength characteristics of the soils to be used for increasing
the height of the bund and also the soil characteristics of the existing bund.
The cross section of the bund should be decided with reference to the nature
and distribution of material available at economic distance from the bund
section. Section of the bund should be decided with reference to the probable
slope of the saturation gradient in the soils to be used and the probable angle
of repose of the soils under the critical conditions.
13.       The existing design of the surplus weir should be analyzed to ensure
that the structure will operate effectively in the event of large floods. If
the existing structure is inadequate, additional length of the weir or breach-
ing section must be installed.
14.       The discharge capacity of the head sluice and other structures in
the distribution system must be adequate to meet the crop water requirements.
The design mechanical installation, such as gate, hoists, and other auxiliary
equipment must be checked to assure operating condition and include regulation
and measuring device to assure appropriate release.
Construction, Operation and Maintenance
15.       Placing of fill material on rehabilitated bunds shall be laid in
even layers (not exceeding 6 inches) and shall have appropriate moisture con-
tent (if not water is to be added) and be compacted. All vegetative material
should be removed from the old bund prior to adding new material.
16.       Canal embankment and-smaller distributaries shall. have proper com-
paction with particular care around structures. Lining is to be installed in
areas of excessive leakage or stone pitching in areas of erosion.
17.       Care must be exercised in installing structures to ensure proper
elevation for efficient operation. All concrete, brick and steel used shall
meet ID specification.
18.       To guard against piping through or slippage of fill material on
the rehabilitated bund, initial filling of the tank should be in stages. It
is recommended that first filling should be limited to about one half of its
storage depth, second filling to three/fourths, and then full filling.
19.       Operation of the tank or anicut should be based upon a rotational
irrigation schedule (preferably 7 day), which should be well publicized to
the farmers. Only authorized ID and DAS staff, or duly appointed farmer
representative should operate irrigation structures. A sense of discipline in
the use of water should be installed in water users.
80



ANNEX 4
Page 8
20.       A coordinated operation program for each scheme should be worked
out between the representatives of the Irrigation Department and the Agricul-
tural Department for the major irrigation schemes, whereas for the minor
village schemes, the Department of Agrarian Services should prepare a similar
operation program for each of the schemes. This operational program should
include: (a) coordinate water releases with rainfall to better meet crop
water requirements in the command area; (b) adjust crop calendars to benefit
fully from rainfall and conserve stored water for irrigation deliveries during
yala season; and, (c) prepare schedule for rotational deliveries from author-
ized outlets and inform all affected farmers of this schedule.
21.       An improved system of communication should be developed for emergency
repairs and daily operational needs particularly for the major tank schemes.
Telephone communication systems should be installed at vital stations of each
major tank scheme and the roads for carrying out maintenance work for the
canal system should be progressively taken up. Canal flows should be deter-
mined on the basis of need for the crops and water deliveries should be varied
according to these requirements to reduce operation wastes.
22.       Minimum operation and maintenance equipment should be provided for
operational mobility and for proper maintenances of the schemes.
23.       During the operation, it should be made obligatory that reliable
hydrological data for major as well as minor tank schemes should be collected
regularly and systematically recorded and analyzed and checked with the pre-
vious data. This will facilitate to introduce any modifications in the water
delivery programme or change in the cropping pattern.
24.       Benefits from improved planning, design criteria and construction
standards should ultimately result in water savings and create favorable con-
ditions for developing HYV crops and greater agricultural yields both in Maha
and Yala seasons.
81



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II
Consultants' Terms of Reference
A.   Planning and Construction Consultants
Description of Work
1.        For the purpose of this agreement, the water resources planning
consultants shall provide certain professional and technical services to the
Irrigation Department (ID) to assist in the preparation of plans, detailed
designs, schedule of quantities, and cost estimates for irrigation schemes
included in this project, as well as the Kurunegala RDP. Irrigation schemes
include major and minor tanks, anicuts and groundwater irrigation. Plans for
all such schemes shall include a water management program. Construction
consultants would supervise construction of seven major schemes in Puttalam.
2.        Individual agreements 1/ shall be negotiated between GOSL (specific-
ally ID) and each local consulting firm to supply professional and technical
services, as well as support staff and services. Each appointed consulting
firm shall liaise with the Chief Engineer (CE) responsible for the proposed
scheme and shall look to him for technical guidance. All plans, detailed
designs, schedule of quantities, and cost estimates prepared by planning
consultants shall be in accordance with ID specifications and in line with
agreed criteria and Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Irrigation Tanks (Annex
2). All construction shall be in accordance with agreed plans, designs and
ID specifications. In addition, all construction shall be carried out in
accordance with agreed plans, designs and ID specifications.
3.        ID will make available to the planning consultants all available
data, surveys, maps, etc., that are pertinent to the specific scheme being
planned or designed. Any additional data required shall be the responsibil-
ity of the planning consultants and shall be collected by them as a part of
their agreement.
Scope of Work
4.        The service to be performed by the planning consultants shall
consist of:
1/   General terms and conditions of agreement, as well as the experience
and qualifications of consulting firm shall be satisfactory to IDA.
Envisioned that first such agreements shall be negotiated and signed
about the time of project negotiations.
82



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a) field investigations and collection of data wherever
necessary;
(b) preparation of feasibility plan on each scheme to include:
rehabilitation of the tank or supply facility, (considering
hydrological and geological condition); rehabilitation of
the main canal and its distribtuion system from the supply
facility to the fields; and introduce program for water
management;
(c) preparation of detailed designs, construction drawings
including schedule of quantities and cost estimates that
are necessary for construction;
(d) resolution of issues and problems arising during construction
from their plans and designs; and
(e) supervision of construction to assure compliance with ID
specifications and shall certify quality and quantity of
work accomplished to ID.
5.        It is estimated that the consulting services would be required for
the following number of schemes:
District       Major Tanks       Minor Scheme
1.  Kurunegala                          150
2.  Matale            -                   10
3.  Puttalam          4 1/              180
6.        Consulting services would include generally the following special-
ists and approximate man/months of consulting services:
Consulting Services
Total Estimated
Designation                                 Man-Months
Planning                                       162
Irrigation Engineer                            169
Design Engineer                                166
Economist                                       33
Agriculturist                                   56
Technical Assistants                           500
Construction Engineers                          28
Inspectors                                     148
Total           1,262
7.        Under the contractual agreements, the consulting firms fee would
provide all associated costs of planning personnel including: salaries and
1/   Consultants to also supervise construction of seven major schemes.
83



ANNEX 5
Page 3
related expenses; transport and travel expenses; transport, surveying and
office equipment; supplies; office space; and clerical staff, draftsmen, and
drivers. In addition, consulting firms would be required to supply the neces-
sary support staff and back-up technical services from its headquarters as
required. ID would furnish required office space at district locations.
B. Supervisory Consultants
Description of Work
8.        For the purpose of this Agreement, the team of supervisory consul-
tants, locally engaged, shall provide certain professinal and technical
services to the Ministry of Plan Implementation to assist in the overall
coordination and management of this project and the Kurunegala RDP (Cr.
891-CE).1/ Also, they will assist the Project Directors in Matale, Puttalam
and Kurunegala Districts in implementing the projects. The team shall report
to the Director, Regional Development Division, Ministry of Plan Implementa-
tion and shall be under his general supervision.
9.        All project records shall be made available to the consultants.
Scope of Work
10.       The services to be performed by the supervisory consultant team
shall consist of:
(a) preparing/reviewing all plans and designs of civil works 2/
in keeping with agreed criteria, guidelines and schedule.
Whenever necessary, prepare required plans and de-signs, sub-
ject to negotiations with RDD, of work to be accomplished
and cost for work to be performed;
(b)  checking all completed civil works (including mechanical
installations) and field works 3/ to ensure compliance with
specifications of concerned agencies and agreed criteria
and guidelines as well as determining quantities and appro-
priateness of related expenses;
1/   Terms and conditions of agreement and experience and qualification of
consulting firm shall be ageeable to IDA.
2/   Civil works include, but are not limited to components relating to
irrigation (including water management), highways, rural roads, rural
water supply, rural electrification, facilities, etc.
3/   Field works include but are not limited to components relative to agri-
cultural credit, coconut development; minor export crops, forestry,
sericulture, etc.
84



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(c) assisting all executing agencies in the implementation of
their work programs, with a view to overcoming any bottle-
necks and delays in the civil works and field works program;
(d) monitoring, reviewing and assisting in various aspects of
equipment procurement including compliance with agreed pro-
curement procedures, agreed items to be procured and pro-
curement schedule; and allocation and delivery of equipment
to appropriate agencies for designated project activities;
(e) preparing of reimbursement applications;
(f) preparing consolidated annual accounts with the assistance
of the Accounting Unit of MPI;
(g) monitoring physical and financial progress and central bud-
geting for the project 1/; and
(h) preparing consolidated quarterly and annual progress reports,
consolidated annual program of work, updating the five-year
program and project completion reports.
11.        The supervisory consultancy team shall inspect civil and field
works, etc., and submit to the PD a written statement of their findings so as
to enable PD to submit the reimbursement application to RDD within 45 days
from the completion date of such works. 2/ Deficiencies noted in the quality
and quantity of civil works and quantity of field works shall be reported by
the supervisor consultants to the PD and to the appropriate official of the
concerned agency within ten days of inspection. Consultant's assistance in
preparing progress reports, annual program of works and project completion
report shall be in accordance with directives from the Director of RDD and
consistent with the time schedule required for such reports.
Consultancy Services
12.        Consultant team shall be located in Colombo, in office space
provided by and in close proximity to RDD. The Project Director would provide
adequate office accomodations as required for field operation. The team
should be in place as a condition of project effectiveness, and would consist
of the following members, who would be assigned full-time to the project:
1/   District level monitoring and budget control to be the responsibility of
the PD and his staff.
2/   From date of certification of completion by implementing agency(s).
85



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Designation                       No.       Man/Months
Project Manager (Engineer)              1             68
Field Engineers                         2            116
Agriculturalist                         1             62
Accountant                              1             68
Technical Assistants                    3            186
500
13.       The consulting firm fee would provide:  all personnel costs (sala-
ries and related expenses), transportation and travel expenses, transportation
of office and field equipment, as well as clerical support and drivers. In
addition the firm would supply back-up staff support, services and technical
assistance from its headquarter as required.
86



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Agency Assignments for Project Implementation and Operation
Agency                               Responsibility
1.   Ministry of Land and Land Development
(a)  Irrigation Department (ID)         -  Irrigation rehabilitation works.
- Water management planning and
development of all irrigation
schemes.
-  Operation of major schemes.
(b)  Department of Forests (DF)         -  Forest development
(c)  Water Resources Board (WRB)        -  Groundwater exploration
-  Groundwater development
2.   Ministry of Agricultural
Development and Research
(a)  Department of Agriculture (DA)    -  Extension services
(b) Department of Minor Export
Crops (DMEC)                       - Nurseries, demonstration plots
and processing units for
minor export crops, cocoa,
coffee, peppers, cardamon,
nutmeg and cloves.
- Research and training on minor
export crops.
- Subsidy and development programs
for replanting and new plant-
ings.
(c) Department of Agrarian
Services (DAS)                     -  Agricultural production units.
- Operational phase of water
management for village
(minor and anicuts) and
groundwater irrigation
schemes.
(d) Agricultural Development
Authority (ADA)                    -  Coordination of farm input
supplies.
- Coordination of farm produce
marketing.
87



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Agency                                Responsibility
3.   Ministry of Coconut Development           -  Nursery and fertilizer distri-
bution for coconuts.
(a)  Coconut Development Board (CDB)   -  Subsidy program for coconut
development.
(b)   Coconut Research Institute         -  Coconut Research
4.   Ministry of Rural Industrial
Development
(a) Department of Animal
Production and Health (DAPH)        -  Livestock-development.
(b) Department of Small Industries
(DSI)                               -  Handicraft production and
training.
5.   Ministries of Food and Cooperatives
(a) Department of Cooperative
Development (DCD)                   -  Input supplies and credit.
6.   Ministry of Plantation Industries
(a) Silk and Allied Products
Development Authority (SAPDA)       -  Sericulture development.
7.   Ministry of Fisheries
(a)  Welfare Division (WD)               -  Beacon Lights.
- Sanitation facilities.
- Fishery Service Centers
(b) Sri Lanka Fishery Harbors
Corporation (SLFHC)                 -  Jetties.
8.   Ministry of Labor
(a)  Department of Labor (DL)            -  Vocational training.
9.   Ministry of Power and Highways
(a)  Department of Highways (DH)         -  Highways.
- Rehabilitation and extension of
rural roads.
(b)  Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)    -  Rural electrification
- Rural energy and conservation.
88



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Agency                                 Responsibility
10. Ministry of Local Government,
Housing, and Construction
(a) Department of Local Government
Services (DLGS)                     -  Rural roads.
- Rural water supply.
(b) National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (NWSDB)               -  Construction rural wells.
11. Ministry of Finance and Planning
(a)  People's Bank (PB)           )
)      -  Rural Credit
(b)  Bank of Ceylon (BC)          )
12. Ministry of Education
(a) Regional Department of
Education (RDE)                     -  Primary and secondary education.
13. Ministry of Health
(a)  Department of Health (DOH)           -  Health, services
14. Ministry of Plan Implementation
(a) Regional Development Division
(RDD)                               -  Overall project coordination and
management.
- Project preparation.
(b)  Accounting Unit (AU)                 -  Project accounts and audits.
89



ANNEX 6
Chart 
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
(Matale and Puttulam)                                                            (Colombo)
g a                                   u e _  _  _  _  _  _  _ t   Sec., Min. of Plan Implementa
| Government Agent       lll
ProjectMCoordinale Project Coordinating                         PtmProjectCoordination ll                                                Rural Development ProDets
Prommietell|                                                                                                                                                  Projects 
Committee                                                       Committee                                                Steering C      te
Title                                  positfon                Title                                  Positiot                Title        'Position
District Minister                           (Chairman)         District Minister                           (Chairman)         Sec., Min. of Plan Imp.                     (Chairman)
Government Agent                         IVice Chairman)       Gonemnment Agent                          (Vice Chairman)       Chr., Agr. Dee. Authority                  lMnmberl
Sec., Min. Plan ImP.                         (sMember)         Sec., Min, of Plan Impl.                    (Member)            Director, Highways                          (Member)
Dir., Regional Den.
Dep. Dir., Regional Dev.                     (Member)          Dir., Regional Den.                         (Member)           Director, Irrigation                        (Member)
Chief Engr.. Highways                       IMember)           Dep. Dir.. Regional Dva.                    (Member)            Director, Buildings                        (Member)
Dep. Dir., Irrigation                       iMember)           Chief Engr., Highways                       (Member)           Dirnctor, Minor Export Crops                 (Member)
Die. Forestry Dff., Forests                 (Member)           Dep. Dir,, Irrigation                       (Member)            Director, Education                         (Member)
Dep. Dir., Land Reform                      (Member)           Div. FoMrstry Off. Forests                   (Member)           Director, Healty Senvices                  (Member)
Assist. Dir., Agr.
Dist. Ext. Dff., Minor Exp. CroPs           (Member)           Reg. Mgr., Coconut Cult Bd                  (Member)           Director, Plan. Div., Mn. of Finance         (Member)
Prhe. Dir., Agr. Dev. Auth.                 (Member)           Assist. Dir., Agr.                          (Member)            Dir., Animal Production & Heath            (Member)
Assist. CommD.. Ararian Serv.               (Member)           Dist. Ext. Officer, Fisheries               (Member)            Director, Agrarian Sexrices                 (Member)
Dep. Dir., Animal ProdrHealth               (Member)           ProV. Dir., Agr. Dev. Auth.                 (Member)            Director, Dav. Finance, Central Bank        (Member)
Assst. Comm.,  Coop. Dev                    (Member)           Assist. Comm., Agrarian Ser.                (Member)            Dir.. Agrarian Research & Trg. Ins.        (Member)
Gssis. Mgr., Sl  A lledAuh
Assist. Comm., Labor                        (Member)           Dep. Dir., Animal Prod/Health               (Member)            Gee. Mgr., Coconut Dvn. Ed                  (Member)
Rev. Dir., Education                        (Member)           Assist. Comm. CODP. Dev.                    (Member)           Gee. Mgr.a Ceylon  Elec. ed                 (Member)
Supt. Health Services                       (Member)           Reg. Dir., Education                         (Member)           Commissioner,   CoOP. Den.                 (Member)
Dist. Mgr. , k  of Ceylon                   (Member)           Supt.. Health Senvican                      (Member)           Gee. Mgr., Bank of Ceylon                   (Member)
Dint. Mgr.. il  Peo lieds Ank
Assist. Comm., Local Gong                   (Member)           Diet. Ext. Off.. Minor Exp. Crops            (Member)           Gen. Mgr., People's Bank                    (Member)
Supt. Engr., Buildings                      (Member)           Dist. Mgr., Bank of CeYlon                  (Member)            Gen. Mgr., Water Resources Bd               (Member)
Reg. Mgr.. Ceylon Elec.  Bd                 (Member)           Diet. DiMgr., People's Bank                  (Member)           D     en   . Mgr., Water SuPply & Drain     (Member)
Assist. Dir., Small Ind.                    (Member)           Supt. Engr., Buildings                       (Member)           Director, Fisheries Development             (Member)
Assist. Den. Mgr. Water Supply & Drainage   (Member)          Assist. Comm., Local Gov't                   (Member)           Commissioner. Labor                         (Member)
Project Director                          (Member/Sec.)        Reg. Mgr., Ceylon Elec. Ed                   (Member)           Gen. Mgr., Silk and Allied Auth.            (Member)
Dep. Gen. Mgr., Water Res. Bd.              (Member)           Sec., Min. of Local Gov't                    (Member)
Assist. Gen. Mgr., Water SuPply & Drainage   (Member)          Dir., Small Industries                       (Member)
Div. Coconut Res. Bd.                       (Member)           Government Azent, Kurunegala, Matale         (Member)
Project Director                          (Member/Sec.)         and Putulamb
Project Director Jurunegala, Matale         (Member)
and Putulamb'
Director, Regional Dev.                  (Member/Sec.)
a/Secretaries of concerned Ministries and Chairman of
concerned Corporations to attend when requested by
Chairman.
bExt. Office Members on items concerning their Districts.
World Bank - 21444
90



ANNEX 7
Table I
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices Used For the Financial and Economic Analysis
(Rs in 1980 Constant Currency)
Financial Prices        Economic Prices
Agricultural Products(Rslkg)         1980         1990        1980        1990
Rice                               1.92         2.50        3.32       3.94
Coconut (per nut)                  1.00         1.20        1.78       1.82
Coffee                            28.00        31.00      30.00       33.00
Cocoa                             25.00        17.00       27.00      18.00
Cardamon                          90.00        90.00      99.00       99.00
Peppers                           24.00        24.00       26.00      26.00
Cloves                           110.00        60.00     118.00       65.00
Nutmeg                            15.00        15.00      16.00       16.00
Cocoons                           44.00        50.00      97.00       97.00
Fertilizer QRs/kg)
Urea                               1.00         1.70        3.55       4e78
Triple Super-Phosphate             1.36         2.13        3.67       4.74
Muriate of Potash                  1.09         1.54        2.50       3.08
Labor (Rs/man days)
Slack Period                      12.00        15.00       7.00        8.50
Peak Period                       15.00        19.00       12.50      16.00
Farm Power (Rs/hour)
Two wheel tractor                 25.00        25.00      31.55       31.55
Four wheel tractor                65.00        65.00      85.00       85.00
Bullock Power                      2.50         2.50        2.50       2.50
91



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysig for Replantine Cocoa and CardamomL-  (Per ac)
(pure strand)
Year          0       1       2       3       4       5       6        7        8       9        10        11      12      15      20       25
Cocoa (435 trees/ac)
.Without Proiec/2
Gross Returns                           750    750       750    750    690    588        494     408      374    340       272       204      170      0      0       0
Certainty Equivalent3/                  600    600       600    600    552    470        395     326      299    272       217       163      136      0      0       0
Operating Costs:
Labor                              270    270      277    284    291    283        274      265      255    244      116       102       85      0       0      0
Fertilizer                          13      13       14     15      15      16      17       18       19       0        0         0        0     0       0       0
Other                               50      50      50      50      50      45      40       35  -   30       25       20        15      12      0       0       0
Net Returns                             267    267       259    251    196    126         69        8       (5)     2       81        46       39      0      0       0
With Project
Gross Returns                             -       0        0       0    690  1,155   1,710   1,955   2,295  2,700   3,060    3,230   3,400   3,825  3,655  3,230
Certainty Equivalent!'                    -       0        0       0    522    924   1,368   1,564   1,836  2,176   2,448    2,584   2,720   3,060  2,924  2,584
Subsidy                                   -    650       250    500    600    750        0       0        0       0        0         0        0        O      O       O
Operating Costs:
Labor                                -  1,755      637    483    436.   447        503      577      638    701      782       816      850      935    887    816
Fertilizer                           -      65     138    146    192    243        255      267      279    291      303       315      315      315    315    315
Other                                -    250      200    150    110    110        120      125      130    135      140        150     155      160    150    140
Net Returns                                - (1,420)   (725)  (279)   413    874         490      595     789  1,049   1,222    1,303   1,400   1,650  1,575  1,313
Incremental Returns Due to Project
(IRR = 20%)                          - (1,687)   (984)  (530)   217    748         426      586     793  1,047   1,141    1,257   1,361   1,650  1,575  1,313
Cardamom (890 plants/ac)
Without Project4/
Gross Returns                           900    900       900    900    900    900        810     810      720    720       630       540      450      0      0       0
Certainty Equivalent5/                  630    630       630    630    630 .  630        567     567      504    504       441       378      315      0      0       0
Operating Cost:
Labor                              230    230      235    241    247    253        244      250      240    244      233       221      221      0       0       0
Fertilizer                           0       0       0       0       0     0        0        0       0      0        0         0        0        0       0       0
Other                               60      60      60      60      60      60      56       56       48      48      48        48       44      0       0       0
Net Returns                             340    340       335    329    323    317        267     261      213    207       160       109       50      0      0       0
With Project
Gross Return                              -       0        0       0  1,620  2,880   4,500   5,400   5,850  6,300   6,300    6,300   5,850   4,500  3,150  3,150
Certainty Equivalent-                      -      0        0       0  1,134  2,016   3,150   3,780   4,095  4,410   4,410    4,410   4,095   3,150  2,205  2,205
Subsidy                                   -    300       200    300    300    400         0       0       0       0        0         0        0       0       0       0
Operating Cost:
Labor                                -  1,890      970    852    757    909   1,113   1,232   1,308  1,402   1,432    1,412   1,394   1,241  1,071  1,071
Fertilizer                           -     32       69      73    154    162       255      267      279    291      303       315      315      262    210    210
Net Returns                               - (2,222) (1,088)  (875)   201    967   1,332   1,791   1,998  2,187   2,145    2,103   1,876   1,196    534    534
Incremental Returns Due to Project
(IRR = 16%)                          - (2,563) (1,423)(1,203)  (121)   650   1,064   1,529   1,785  1,480   1,985    1,994   1,826   1,196    534    534
1/
- Input usage and yields per Annex 7, Table 4.
2/  Assumed to be old cocoa plantation on which maintenance and fertilization ends in years 8-9 and harvesting ends in year 13.
3-  Assumes certainty equivalent factor of 0.8 based on coefficient of variation of cocoa export revenues of about 20% during 1968-1976.
-   Assumed to be old cardamomplantation on which harvesting ends in year 13.
5/  Assumes certainty equivalent factor of 0.7 based on coefficient of variation of cardamom export revenues of about 307 during 1968-1976.



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets for Farmers on Minor and Major Irrigation Schemes'l/
MATALE                                                        PUTTALAM
Minor Irrigation Schemes          Major Irrigation Schemes        Minor Irrigation Schemes         Major Irrigation Schemes
2/        2/          2/
P-_     FWO-         FW-        P          FWO        MW         P         FWO         FW         P        FWO          FW
P
Farm Size - cultivable area            1.90     1.90        1.90       1.90       1.90       1.90       2.70       2.70        2.J0      2.70      2.70         2.70
Area Sown (ac)
paddy maha                         0.98      0.98        1.26       0.91       0.98       1.33       1.65      1.65         1.98     2.09       2.09        2.11
paddy yala                         0.56      0.56        0.84       0.14       0.28       0.98      0.88       0.88        1.32      0.77       0.88        1.54
subsidiary crops                   0.45      0.45        0.45       0.45       0.45      0.45       0.45       0.45        0.45      0.45       0.45        0.45
Gross Farm Income
Gross Income from Paddy3/        2,565    3,655         5,900      2,100      3,445     7,210      2,810      3,995       7,360    4,020       5,675       8,985
Gross Income frv  Home Plot        800       800          800        800        800        800       700        700         700       700        700         700
Off-farm Income.'                  600       760          760        600        760        760       600        760         760       600        760         760
Total                3,965    5,215         7,460      3,500      5,005     8,770      4,110      5,455       8,820    5,320       7,135      10,445
Operational Cost
For Paddy:
Hired Labor                    300       435          685        105        320       845        525        695       1,055       685        935       1,315
Fertilizer                      85       200          355         80       200        4455/      120        300         525       195        430         665
Other                          755       850        1,245        610       805      1,580-    1,215       1,370       1,920    1,590       1,830       2,435
For Home Plot                       90        90           90         90         90         90         90         90          90       90         90          90
Total               1,260    1,575         2,375        885      1,415     2,960      1,950      2,455       3,590    2,560       3,285       4,505
Farm Income
From Paddy                       1,395    2,170         3,615      1,305      2,120     4,340         950     1,630       3,860    1,550       2,480       4,570
From Home Plot                     710       710          710        710        710       710        610        610         610       610        610         b
Off-farm Income                    600       760          760        600        760        760        600       760         760       600        760         760
Total               2,705    3,640         5,085      2,615      3,590     5,810      2,160      3,000       5,230    2,760       3,850       5,940
Family Labor Used
For Paddy                           49        51           74         47         51         90         80        83         113        99        107         139
For Home Plot                       40        40           40         40         40         40         40        40          40        40         40          40
Hired Labor                             22       23           36          7         17         45         34         36          55        46         49          69
-/ Based on input requirements and yields shown in Annex 6, Table 2.
2/ p = Present; FWO = Future Without Project; and MW = Future With Project.
3/ Estimated on the certainty equivalent (area harvested/area sown ratio) shown in Annex 6,Table 6.
4/ Estimated to be 40 man days a year.
5/ Includes water charges at the rate of Rs 30/irrigated ac.
'0



ANNEX 7
SRI LANK,A                      Table 4
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budaetefor Coconut Development I/
Coconut Farm (5.5 ac)      Coconut Farm (15.5 ac)
p   -/O V    FW0          P       FW       FW
Farm Size
Cropping Pattern (ac)
Inmature coconut plantations        0.75    0.75    0.75      2.25    2.25   2.25
Mature coconut plantations          3.70    3.70    3.85    11.10   11.10  11.55
Old and senile plantations          0.55    0.55    0.40      1.65    1.65   1.20
Subsidiary crops                    0.45    0.45    0.45      0.45    0.45   0.45
Farm Gross Income
Gross income from coconuts         7,500  10,800  13,800   22,500  32,400  41,400
Gross income frpT home plot          800      800     800      800      800     800
Off-farm Income._                    600      760     760       600     760 7660
Total Farm Income               9,900  12,360  15,360   23,900  33,960  42,960
Certanity Equivalent4/                8,150  13,110  13,980   21,650  30,720  38,820
Operational Cost
For Coconut
Hired labor                          385      560     985    1,730   2,525   4,065
Fertilizer                           195      630     945      585   1,890   2,835
other                                300      400     550       900   1,200   1,650
For Home plot                            90       90      90        90      90      90
Total Operational Cost            970   1,680   2,570    3,305   5,705   8,640
Farm Income
From coconut                       5,870   8,130   9,940   17,035  23,545  28,710
From home plot                       710      710     710       710     710     710
Off-farm Income                      600      760     760       600     760     760
Total Farm Income               7,180   9,600  11,410   18,345  25,015  30,180
Family Labor Used
For coconut                           67       77      87       157     180     195
For home plot                         40       40      40       40       40      40
Hired Labor                              28       33      58       128     150      240
1/ Based on input requirements and yileds show in Annex 6 Table 3.
2/  F - present, FWO - Future without, FW - Future with.
3 Estimated to be about 40 man days a year.
4/ Certainly equivalent factor of 0.9 based on coefficient of variation on Sri Lanka
coconut total production from 1970-79.
94



SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Parms Budgets for Cocoa. Pepper, and Coffee 1
(1/2 ac pure stand on 4 ac farm)
(Rs.)
Cca2/                                        YearO0         1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        9       10       1.1       12       15       20
Gross returns from 1/3/ac cocoa                     0        0        0         0     345      578       856      978  .1,148   1,360   1,530   1,615   1,700   1,912   1,912
Certsinly equivalent -                              0        0        0         0     276       462      685.    782       918   1,088   1,224   1,292   1,360   1,530   1,530
subaixdy payem9qc                                   0      325      125      250      300       375        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
C redi t lie.                                       0      675      350       175       75        0    (425)    (425)    (425)    (425)    (425)         0         0        0        0
Operating costs Rs.)
Hired labor S~0                                         614      I11       72       70       76        90      113      134      158      176       183      191      210      200
Pertilizer                                       0       32       69       73       96      121       127      134      140      145      151       157      157      156      158
Other    -                                       0      125      100       75       55       55        60       62       65       67       70        75       77       80        75
Net returns from 1/2 at cocoa                       0      228      194      205      430       584      (20)      49      155      292       401      876      934   1,082   1,031
Net income from other sources                  12,000  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750
Net fsrm income                                12,000  11,750  11,944  11,955  12,180  12,334  11,730  11,799  11,905  12,042  12,151  12,626  12,684  12,832  12,781
Incremental income due to cocoa(IRR=~22%)           0    (22)       (56)     (45).   180       334    (270)    (201)       (95)       42      151      626      684      832       781
Family labor for cocoa (MD)                                 19       15        12       10       10       11       11       12        12       13       13        14       15       15
Pepper 6
Gross returns from 1/2 sc pepper                    0        0        0   1,200   3,000   4,800   5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400   4,aaa
Certainty equivalent 71'                            0        0         0     600   1,500   2,400   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,400
Subsidy paym9pc                                     0      325      125      200      250       350        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Credit tine 2'                                      0      600      400      200         0    (700)   (700)    (700)   (700)    (700)           0        0         0        0        0
Operating costs
Hired labor 8/                                   0      543      202      312      415      532       614      627      641      656       670      684      684       684      654
Fertilizer                                       0       65      138      219      231      284      298       312      325      340      353       367      367      367      210
Other                                            0      125      137      150      150      150       150      150      150      150      150       150      150      150         0
Net returns from 1/2 at pepper                      0      192       47      316       954   1,434   1,288   1,260   1,232   1,204   1,526   1,498   1,498   1,498   1,435
Net income from other sources                  12,000  11.750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750
Net farm income                                12,000  11,942  11,797  12,068  12,704  13,184  13,038  13,010  12,982  12,954  13,276  13,248  13,248  13,248  13,185
Incremental income due to pepper(IRR=48%)                 (58)   (203)        68       704   1,184   1,038   1,010         982       954   1,276   1,248   1,248   1,248   1,185
Family labor for pepper                                     17       18        18       19       19       17       17        17       17       17       17        17       17       16
Coffee 6/
Gross returns from 1/2 at coffee                    0        0        0      290       600      900   1,550   2,015   2,480   2,945   3,255   3,410   3,565   3,875   3,566',
Certainty equivalent 9/                             0        0         0     246       510      765   1,317   1,712   2,108   2,503   2,767   2,898   3,030   3,294   3,030
Subsidy pay"gq                                      0      325      125      250      300       375        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
Credit line ii'                                     0      675      350      175        75        0     (850)    (850)    (850)    (850)    (850)         0        0        0        ar
operating costs8/
Hired labor 8'                                   0      614      145      185      230      279       356      430      518      610       653      684      696       725      696
Fertilizer                                       0       65       69      109      115      122       149      156      186      194      202       210      210      210       210
Other                                            0      125      100       75       52        55       60       65       68        72       75       76       78        76       70
Net return from 1/2 at coffee                       0      196      161      302       488      684      327      638      911   1,203   1,412   1,928   2,046   2,281   2,054
Net income from other sources                  12,000  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750  11,750
Net farm income                                         11,946  11,911  12,052  12,238  12,434  12,077  12,388  12,661  12,953  13,162  13,678  13,796  14,031  13,804
Incremental income due to coffee(IRR=36%)                  (54)     (89)      52       2)8      434       77      388      661       953   1,162   1,678   1,796   2,031   1,804
Family labor for coffee                                     20       20       20        19       19       19       18        18       16       17       17        18       18       17
I/  All budget represent farms participating in the subsidy program for planting at least 1/2 ac pure stand.  Because of risk, it is assumed that
farmers will not be willing to specialize in one minor export crop; therefore, it is assumed that the minimum holding on which 1/2 at pure
stand would be planted would be 4 at..
2/ 4 at farm of mixed forest garden providing net income of Rs.12,000. Average income per at based on survey by 0. J. McDonnell, "The Forest
Garden of Kandy," 1978.  Assumed that least productive 1/2 at (providing net income of only Rs.250) will be planted to cocoa.
3/  Certainly equivalent factor of 0.8 based on coefficient of variation of Sri Lankan cocos export revenue of 20% from 1968-1976.
4/Per Annex 3, Table 6.  Repayment at 9% interest assumed to be in five equal installments.
5/Assumed to be fraction of total labor requirement of .7 in year 1, about .35 in years 2-8, and .45 thereafter.
61  4 at farmn primarily of tea.  Net income of Rs.12,000 based on family budget for tea smallholder provided by Tea Small Holdings Development-1'
Authority, January 11, 1980. Assumed that least I productive 1/2 at (providing net income of only Rs.250) is planted to pepper or coffee.
7/  Certainty equivalent factor of 0.5 based on coefficient of variation of gross returns from pepper of about 50% as estimated by N  Ahmed,
M. deSilva, and L. Wijelcoon, Comparative Economic Analysis of Selected Farm Enterprises, UNDP/FAO Agricultural Diversification Project,                                         I,
1975.
8/ Assumed to be fraction of total labor requirement of .7 in yearA1, .45 - .65 in years 2-6, and .7 thereafter.
9/Certainty equivalent factor of .85 based on coefficient of variation of gross returns from pepper of about 15% as estimated by Ahmed, et. al.



ANNEX 7
Table 6-
SRI LANKA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets for Sericulture Settlement Farm /
Year                                   1          2        3         4        5        6         7         8         9          10-25
--------------------------------------------Rs----------------------------------------------
Farm Gross Income
Gross Income From Silk Cocoonsl/              16,910    19,575  21,840   23,920   25,575   25,850   26,125   26,400          27,500
Gross Income Prom Home Plot                      800       800      800       800      800       800      800       800         800
Net Wage Income!/                    4,070       -          -       -         -        -         -              -         -
Total Farm Income               4,070   17,710    20,375  22,640   24,720   26,375   26,650   26,925   27,200          28,300
Certainty Equivalent3/                    4,070-  15,175    17,440  19,365   21,130   22,540   22,770   23,005   23,240           24,175
Subsidy-                                  2,860       -          -       -         -         ---      -         -         -
Credit
For Rearing:Shed and Tr a5/         13,5001/    -          -        -                            -         -        -
For Mulberry Plantation-/            1,000-   2,035-/   2,300   2,575    2,635    2,700    2,760    2,820           -           -
Operational Costi!
Hired Labor                            -       8,140     9,200  10,300   10,550   10,800   11,045   11,290   11,540          12,035
Fertilizer                             -         580       615      645       680      715       745       780      815         880
Other Cost                             -         650        650     650       650      650       650       650      650         650
Total Operational Cost            -      9,370    10,465  11,595   11,880   12,165   12,440   12,720   13,005          13,565
Investment
Mulberry Plantations                 1,500       -          -       -         -        -         -         -        -           _
Rearing Shed                         9,000       -          _       _
Rearing Trays                        6,500       -          -       _         _        _                  -
Implements and Tools                   300       -         -        _        _         _         _        _
Total Investment              17,300       -          -        -        -         -         _        _         _
Credit Repayment
Rearing Shed and Trays6/               -      1,415      2,770   2,770    2,1?0    2,770    2,770    2,770    2,770             -
Mulberry Installation 7/               -         225        255     255       255      255       -         -        -
Mulberry Maintenance8'                 -       2,220     2,500   2,805    2,870    2,945    3,010    3,075          -           -
Net Farm Income                           4,L30    3,980      3,750   4,515    5,990    7,105    7,310    7,260    7,465          10,610
-  Based on input requirement and yield shown in Annex 6, Table 5.
2/ Wage to be paid by the SDA to the settlers for clearing, planting and maintaining the mulberries during the first year.
3/ Certainty equivalent factor of 0.85 equivalent to a 75% failure, or one out af five silkworm crops.
4/ Mulberry cuts at Rs 600 equivalent; fertilizer for mulberries Rs 260; and rearing shed Rs 2,000.
-/ Rs 7,000 for the rearing shed and Rs 6,500 for the rearing trays.
-  Credit for construction of rearing shed and for trays at 10.5% interest rate, repayable in 8 years, including one year
grace period for the principal.
7/ Initial credit to install mulberry cuts.
8/ Credit for mulberry maintenance; repayable in 6 months at 9% annual interest.
96



ANNEX 7
Table 7
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Summary of Economic Characteristic
ERP.P/            Switching Valuesi/        Net Present Valuea-/
Matale          Puttalam
Matale  Puttalam Benefit  Cost   Benefit  Cost  Matale  Puttalam
______-  ---    ___ -- -  __%--_---_    - ---     ------ k===s-F--- -
Minor Irrigation Scheme          19         18    -33     +48    -35      +53      7.9     21.5
Major Irrigation Schemes         35         17    -77    +346    -34      +53    49.7      12.8
Minor Export Crops2/             21               -64    +176                    46.2
Coconut                                     40                   -80     +411              82.8
Forestry.!                       25         20    -97  +2,735    -88     +702    84.6      16.9
Sericulture                      43               -73    +273                    14.0
All Productive Components        24         22    -73    +266    -57     +130   194.3    125.2
All Project Components           18         15    -48    + 91    -23     + 29   127.0      49.9
-7At 12% discount rate, estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital in Sri Lanka.
2Cocoa 16%; cardamom 24%; pepper 57%; coffee 25%; clove 21%; and nutmeg 18%.
3/Hardwood 14%; pine 29%; and firewood 25%.
97



ANNEX 7
Table 8
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMNT II PROJECT
List of Conversion Factors to Adjust
Financial Cost for the Economic Analysis
Conversion
Factors To
Standard Conversion Factor                0.80
Consumption Conversion Factor (Rural)    0.83
Consumption Conversion Factor (Urban)    0.75
Electricity                               1.30
Transport & Communication (Road           1.10
Wholesale & Retail Trade                   0.60
Agricultural Machinery Conversion Factor 0.95
Cement & its products Conversion Factor  0.80
Professional Services                      1.10
Chemicals                                  0.95
Mechanical Power                           1.31
Animal Power                               1.00
Diesel Fuel and Petroleum                  1.82
Note: Opportunity cost of capital 12% per annum.
98



ANNEX 7
Table 9
SRI LANKA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(Rs M)
Total   Project               Matale             Puttalam
Year          Benefits    Cost         Benefit-   Cost    Benefiti/ Cost
1980             0          12            0          5         0         7
1           - 6          99          - 4         47        -2        52
2           -12          70          - 9         29        -3       41
3          -15           67          -12         29        -3        38
4           -11          57          -10         25        -1        32
5           - 2          42          - 5         19         3        23
6            26          18           11         10        15         8
7            50          17           26         19        24         8
8            74          16           39         19        35         7
9            92          17           49         19        43         8
1990           121          18           68         19        53         8
1           131          17           72         19        59         8
2           140          17           75         19        65        8
3           147          17           78         19        69        8
4           150          17           79         19        71        8
5           210          17          106         19       104        8
6 -         209          17          106         19       103        8
7           210          17          107         19       103        8
8           209          17          106         19       103        8
9           207          17          105         19       102        8
2000           279          17          208         19        71        8
1           277          17          206         19        74        8
2           277          17          206         19        71        8
3           277          17          205         19        72        8
431/        640          17          462         19       175        8
Includes investment costs for planting minor export crops and forests.
31 Includes investment costs for rehabilitating and planting coconut palms and
planting forests.
Includes discounted value of future benefits of forestry program
99






I RRD  I49A
79~~~~40~~~  ~ ~        ~         ' ~ 80.0               Th~- ~    b.on P,O-d  b~y Ohs                            SRI LANKA
79-45'                                                                                                                         O ao oo   WoAd Banrk s staff eIosvel h,, fe  DISTIICT
t      f oon,nea the ader atMKOOARIES
L________d4ment on thtf Il St th eAgf ats -- 
,  -- _ tr-t5,t5y-ey -d--seint               S f           _on5 ai'
----------  _-= - =-J n tan -tnd--
0,   _ ._ _    . U, ATTAt5* A
iv/- tof   rURUNEt A LA- le .,
,f~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ,'                                                                                  ~ONO.  -t:-r. jaoi'  
II-                                                                        IftOtAN G--tLL-E &
O Cf'A N{                _      _-_                         l .                                          SRI  LANKA
,-J^7:raf 1-a;        2   J             RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  I[ PROJECT
-v4S             W<X~UdPpVW--4  < -                                                               PUTTALAM   DISTRICT                                      745'-
E;, :HAGR~O-ECOLOGICAL ZONES AND MAJOR IRR GATION WXORKS
>                                              _      v   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR IRRIGATION SCHEMES TO BE REHABILITATED
< ~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~~~ ~~RlIfERS
K.,.kkm ... i/g   Y- - - - ___    ELECTORATE BOUNDAR ES
,?|.  -  ---  t                               _.    _       ~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDAR ES 
F  .            t(wt  .g2.  >1CHIZA4W
L7X>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR ECOLGICA 75' -TER=A N
Taloosilt
>-  tt  :               251 R~~~FEGION &SYMBOL  |OANUAL RANFAL ||
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80
t '-.  .  ./    | UU| |            i                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Red y.1low pod-lle -pkl .,,h --rogJy  R.111,,% ultig 
|     ~              ~~~~~~ ~  -ae_   v        ~          |e                                     0mttid tb .1l . O. h-mic gity -ls   ..ad flat             
X        r r .      -           1       1 (il  j                 j          >              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  rtd-ye10p11- c R t.    i ilsih -oft and   
W  t   k   |    |                l          >35           |~~~~~~Reddishbrownath,no-CIcib-o   U,,dulatin
jWSIfVfIVAPPUWA                          g                    |       ||||                   > 30            Rtddish blown -atht n, o humic   U.d.1at,,g  
[          1      >     ;,/    1l   DL            ---        |         >23             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL3 R.dydllowatjosadregfl,  OILS Flx t. sIhlghtv
IA      S'   . S id W1 4"  Fla                 t
t               /7                       }_                    0    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4  6    3    10 Mlle5~
I               if)                        }                     D~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4  3  12  16) Kfl...Ar-
t              ~~~~~79*45'  Iettb<                                    awo                                                  0                          APRIL 1982






IBRD 14949
Th,a t-e has b-a pape-d boOth,
79'45 '                                            80-.10             W Wdth  * b-k eue.f he fede,a  e  PAKISTAN  j     ~           C INA
j  \             ~~~thesputa so which a p attaChed    r>                   <h,PA_t
The -edoaio    sd -nd the"
ppo ot taa,eaaa, ont"n this ma P     1 _                                      $
W.end B-ak ah 0tafdi,iituapIN
'3  ud~ /ant tnt natn* the lesaffl sta7 tus ofI N D I A
T ;arVtptdota   of such b-ada--s
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1 )AIIII .IIII .OA                                                 III
AS  A                                      ,,                                            .H.T..A.A  'AAWTH  R-Df
AR  1A11A.,RA1DA -f4    -1-0.- At s4A KA
( ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ I *..-1D1  1--                        11 Af NAO-t
/   t    C                      A~~~.,                                          _-_____________
K..d'7.                                                                                            A7_-__AW        _____-W__A_"I
Atl  AEAMANKERA f Oi-ntt- S ROAD             06S,
PUT                                                                           A10  KAh/OS5|NPIHIT,`A  KAAUWATAi FOAD       0OS
Ktnndttkul<~ ~            i}S S=      /*x.                                                      05A  &AtLNooAooAD YA fLONittOOACAA ROAD       050 I
Koaw                \ [                                                                 A   Kr t0 DLAKL l FSHAN Ct ES ROtAD  soo       35
A NA /A,~ t)   WAa Af O/ 'A I'ITYA  A-iVASAr   ROA s                                    I S
A ,A I4A .LI ,  V At/AM /A  /  /          iAl, oKuuIT YA . KALPITIY  BEACH RDAD        0 .5
I1Ot       - t T_SC  NC TALAWO- A O-R HRDAO noe 0A
TalawiW3  i   g\        /                i)   it(~~~~~~~~~ !                Al x  K~~ATRULUOYA THDNAPPWTT ROAD             Gow
/                                             us   0050tsSINA A   0NAWILA GODA CORDA  o     u
K |7 /12 -AD                                                                                      ATW LAGOON        hOSAERIE5   AD        o
sx1 n . a E \ ) B2 ALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K-DhKPALODA ROAD                                                    |         2D
-8s oouA                                          (                                                    At0 -,  AhE4 USWEV1A83  KATpOii ROAD 0.0
,>    i\                                                                  01\   k \   \  . )    85   KRUSWALS .-GA00-5  50A0 oDD
0<               C                                                           AtO    GADNI   AANDEo IGOAD  2.       G
0I \2 3 ADIt  U000D0A5     A ROADOR 3S
Ujdy,gtsku~~~~~liy.    
OCE'A N S             S   ffi   @1!               V           /                                       SRI LANKA
I l$,a\zm_--A                 C RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  H  PROJECT
-7.A5, 'd4JppQWo  PUTTALAM                                                                                                DISTRICT 750   O0
acX       11 //y                 5    ~ROAD  WORKS  AND  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
, /rt W v ~~~~~~~~~~ROAD WORKS
' 1 \) /j7                                                                       WAAFlShER ES ROADS TO  BE IMPROVE8
P   n.                                                                       t    hOhIO      OLW  t-  0000ii. . .   .........    FEEDER    ROADS   T O BE    IMPR OVED  
M   la jELECTRIFICATION SCHEME
K-rkkPpo no//.a                        )                                                        EXISTING  132 KV TRANSMISSION LINE  
|   >  7-   < C~~~~~~~~~~~~~z >                                             *        S ~~~~~~EXISTING 33 KV TRANSMISSION LIN5  
RURAL  DEVELOP NSIXTH POWER PROJECTOE
Udo            p                                                              P     TA)At/ PROPOSED 33 KV TRANSM SS ON LINESR T
ROD    W          S   AD E       PROPOSUER   SUBSTATIONA O
00 30           10 S ROADSM7S30
| a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i9 >VERS
t   /5gArrAIV s          -\                                                              - - -_- --       ELECTORATE BOLJNDARIES
- DISTRICT BOUNDRIES
t                    ~        ~ ~~~~Martl                                                         -            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES|
|                        A~~~~~~~.iid3 
2  4  6     8~~   ?RPSE   0  VTSNM  SON-0
>~~~~                      ~          ~          ~          ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11          2  1'6 K,lof-t-r
N- . `, C-                           |          80 Ao 80;/A                                                PA2Os  1O
79-45                             80-                                                    15'Q                   VARC- -  P' BORtd  BONeOIE






IBRD 14950
79'45                   (                  8000      ,   whovadintss:alfe,: .........................W..Id h     sff   --ly fot,  PAKISTAN  CHINA
i     <,  ,          > , ,>~~~~~th conveednteah f /flt.tt ny of th reNc of    IA
t   /   ;; a ;s;,~~~~~~~~~~th  Draepotneto Ohott,Ctt         atced  )l 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~ootpt o th p'r h"th                            St            <    R tAK
/    R  (.    ' - -;  -    -- E                                  z~~h-    lh~ -
WshdbatttOtrss,ts affllrates. aspIND I A
tyt -- the lega  sttu   of-
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~*JO
|G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                    tANKA
745 ~~~UdaPPoea LtkR               "Ct  c                     RURAL DEVELOPMENT IL PROJECT
P' 'TSOCIALA  IASTRICTUR                                                         E
f '*    . ' * S etZY''> <,g'.'                 e~~~~~OPULATION SEP00 Ph PER SILUARE SILE
;XS   r>,,-: ts  .$ X,  7                      -  ~~~~~LEOSSTHAN hD0
r 1' t *,,>; f ~~~~~~~~~~~251 55
S     MOE THAN 1hU
Udp                                        RURAL jDCEVE            PAREAS OP DEF ClENT PRIJECING WATER
7v30  I     I    <  t                                               ~~~~~HEALTH FACI LITIESh             ~
-7''                                    PUTTALAA4  D15RICT HOSPITALS
70Q   NATTA N/D/p                                                                   SSS,  . ttA. IES,  OSPHOOLS            
4             |       =                                           --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELECTORATE BOUNDARtIES
SOILNRSTRUCTBUNDRIES
POPULATINTERNATIONALB OUNDAR IE
I   f 0 2 4 g 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100 250s 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 1250  81 I 
|            ~~~~79045 N.SotSf                                                         12 80 0        815
1251 1750 t  {                  ,'2.Ah1






IBRD   14951
BBT LANKA                                                   80-40B                                                                                         SRI  LANKA                                    APRIL 1980
-____ ,'AsEvSAhV\9                                                                         WRURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
MATALE DISTRICT
Agro - Ecoiogical Zones
tOO                                                                                                                                              RIVER  BASIN  BOUNDARIES
CoBosstk  (o0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4   I                                                                                           -0 ~~~~~~~~TANKS WITH  WE PS
RAROTARA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   W~~~~~~~~ ~ROADS
5MM/AN      ~ $~$'  EE~                                                                                                                                                                 BA LROA DS
OCFAN           B1           *NoA~RIVERS
ELECTORATE BOUNCAR ES
KU U3                                                                                                                                          4                                DISTRIT BONDAB ES
A N URA DHA PURA~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -AGARO-ECOLOGICAL  ZONES   _ __________ _____
7'50'                                                                                                              "AGRO-    7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5% BUPECTANCY
TOO  To oBodoocTo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOI    V ALUE OR                                                                                  MADE SOIl DROOPS              TERRAIN~
''/3a M                    Xt                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I .                                    RANA g(
MID  ONRY        050          Rcddooh B-oo Loto[ ..    lo Immo-o-  51-Elo dsso-v
0                       ~~~~~~Brooss Boom, cod Rod-Yeo   oooo   o ol.s
S:             -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~cd uooo,otoog
..... -TTI                                                              31         1-1- B-.sMo ,     -     d BolS-plo oossoodd
C MS COUNTRY      oUT         REoosh B-ow  Eo,oos cod- 2-no          Ro.oo oIly 
L.ood .- oH-  Gsy soil               co  ocd
I                                                                                   ID       TOTk  d   ST         Reode.  ohy MIL ES oco Echs cod Lo oso    Do30EodoH
vudgm ml on the 1e9a1 statem..                                                                        ......
8C308-0                                                                                                                                                            05
o U p,  ,0,
00000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..    ...                                                                         ...oo.T.c.....T...__________________
TOsdooomosoooo  ooo'o0o sPOLOLNMETWE
Ue~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.....                                                                  .................cono
7 oo4 ooo. .. ...s 007000_                                                                                                                                               _ _  __ _4 0__    _ _ __ _ _
40000000/ 000004s,0 oTIUo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ...   .
00000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.                                            ....                                          ..    .    ......... so< Tls   o  IE
00,'O,00100y00 00,,e,odoooooosool ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ..          .           ..............  .V,.
coooosooToOOe OTooso E000W000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    .............  . 
BOSS                                                                    BOAT~......                                        ........
BT0TD~ ~ ~ ~ ~






IBRD 14952R
PAKISTAN'              C H I N A                                         bo40                                                                           SRI  LANKA
BAUTAN \<t3 3eH                                                       tRURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
MATALE DISTRICT
,   BANGLAPESHWn                                                J  .7% ;: q >                       Road Works and  Rural Electrification
IN D; A                  $.                                                        /          Ancgw
| D,A         <)'i,X                                                  /      / 7EDI o                                            ROAD WORKS
\   //  /     DIgt m                   <h bo                          ROAD TO BE IPAROVED OR CONSTRUCTED
'***        <       r     7 /O   iCTE FICAT ON SCHEMES
.       t    .S. iS  oT                                                                                                              -  -  - EXIST NG 132KV TRANSMISSION LINE
I DOT' oR A i3e,yoD                          J-//--tY-  E ISTING 33KV TRANSMISSION UNES
PROPOSED 33KV TRANSMISSJON LINES
'DAI-         J       :    '                              f         Inomoluwc/                 I SEbNssc    EXISSTING SUBSTATIONS
-                                                                                                                 /n r  '                  PROPOSED SUBSTATIONS
t  SRf tANKA                                                                                                                _     ROADS
.wA                                              2) venCAlWo Ai ggAv AG>IM. F/.lA | RAILROADS
', .N1A')KYACAE.                      -~--   AE
______________________________                                                                                                          -   -- ELECTORATE ROUNDAR ES
I       ANURADH  APURA                                                                                                                            DISRICT BOUNDARIES
7'500                       4, ,,,      **                                                                                               ROAD SOBS IMPROVES ST CONSTRADTED:        MILES     7-50
' ANA.PITIYA - PAPIALAWEYVA           480
AANDLAMA-KUMBUSKKANDANWELA          RED
0                ~~~~~~~~~PALLEGAMA_REVTPS,A          TO0E
55DE.AGIRIYA - MSARAKA                4.000
\   y  > <  /   I   /   ds   /  s   Eroulo  9  ?)  ILLUAKUMBURA-PALLEGAMA             300
( t    (   2   /  @   /   C   g   :    W) ELLAGALLA-SIFANGAHAWATTA             500
I   / )^  \   g   /   \, tDcmbul4     S                                                      ,@1 K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIEAWALA~- ROWANA  SODD
PITAKANDA -GANSARAPDLA              1.00
/  Pa        >~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                      55~~~~~~~ HOSTA%A - ANDXACASO
i k (Acla cw;wce4o                                                                     MANAHINDA - PATT IWE.A              3 00
de.                                    D~~~~~~~~~5  AMBULU OYA - RID tELIA  L2SE
jHombowq(                            MEDAWEELA - DEOPALAGALA             2.0T
Hombo                   21E Cq N  , /o  - \1   1\                                                                                  l hyc J / 1   PALLEGAMA -ARANGAMU%A  4.50
K                                                                                                                             O   ,A9 Puwoa ...........       .      ..... / I - < ( <iu dADUNGAMUWA  MARAKA  BOO
-                                                                          55  EEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IILLATENNA-B0OAHAWEWDA  ROT
t. $  AndogOlO            .                                                                                                 ,Igmitlyowc   /   t    (     8   HALNWELLA_ MA-DIM A  BOB
35PATANA -PITEWELA                    2O5
e.e )(  Kf \t  \>/ //t                      !                                                    8   EAUDJELELA    - ATHAMUNUGALA         42A
14                     0  ~~~~~~~~~~~TENNA-JDUPH LALA          0 50
)   g)J  a  j                 g             !                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL 90 30
\t  oslc \        POLONNARUWA
t   Pollea   (J h fAndswe~agllc                             tXIIEk    -           /        010 '                         A
, ~~~~~~~~                                                                               ~               ~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 'LEOOT  HeSpo
7340                                                                          NPIO7D0'
' UkpisE                         jR'du0
K UndaRles shoU N   E G   A   L A      -     \                     I I                                                                           E    3        4ES
heolml .4on 0 h p0 To5  t                                           '
pdgmOy t on the If g,l soatua of
f ny tem Pry T anV endor:mment~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
OCOVPIV0O fiT, ST ,,W ~ ~  ~      A   ih,                                       dauob
80530                                                             5040-                                                             80500
OCTORER SEE






IBRD 14953
PAK STAN'       \      C H  NA                                                                                                                          SRI  LANKA
,!   TV4tBUT,                                                                                                            RURAL DEVELOPMENT TT PROJECT
MATALE DISTRICT
:,  ,i; . S  X P BAN3LDEq
AI       A GAA ESocial   Infrastructure
U-.  ~~~~~~ ~POPJLAT ON DENSITY  ~PER SQJARE MILEI
In    9400    1 ~~~~~~~~bTHRQ  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      ESS THAN 100
Z  00-199
-      '&541 L~~~~ANKA                                                                                       '/200 -399
400- 799
800- 0599
ROOD                                                                                                         IHOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60- 3200
-                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~MORE THAN 3200
L . C ae A . 2E i  E NI Cl NK NO 1:
7T50                       T, A~d..d900                                                                                                          WAT ER SUPPLY                                      T50 -
-AREA OP DEFICIENT DRINKING WATER
B~ ASE HOSPITAL
DISTRICT HOSEITAL
'\                                 o~~~~~~~~0-I                T2~~~~~~~~~~~PERIPH99ERAL UNI.TS
'RURAL HOSP TALS
EDUCATION PAC IT, ~ES-
A    SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS
-  ROADS
RAIIL ROADS
>-  IHERS
--ELECTORATE BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
rhoudle Stop n Ooo h Toot  h,0000  TOHO'   ''                                                                                                 2      4      H 2            C 
K ANDY~~~
K U RU O N  E ot Geo  A,
7'30'   t030 80'50                                                                                                                                                                            MA9C   980
400,! ,ttpIt 00 tTOpo0t 0/toe~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                         2             6        
V0Z,Oo  o~ttto00H E
-00                                                         400400                                                                                                                ARHP



