OFICIALT          CREDIT NUMBER 1079 CE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1079 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       22                    , 1981, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SWI LANKA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(sa,id General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Matale" means the geographical area comprising the
existing administrative district of Matale in the Borrower's
territory;
(b) "Puttalam" means the geographical area comprising the
existing administrative district of Puttalam in the Borrower's
territory;
(c) "Kurunegala" means the District of Kurunegala as defined
in Section 1.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement (Kurune-
gala Rural Development Project) between the Borrower and the
Association dated April 26, 1979;
(d) "Bank of Ceylon" means the Bank of Ceylon, a banking
corporation established under the laws of the Borrower, or any
successor thereof;
(e) "Peoples' Bank" means the Peoples' Bank, a banking
corporation established under the laws of the Borrower, or any
successor thereof;


﻿-2-
(f) "subsidiary agreements" means the subsidiary agreements
entered into by the Borrower with, respectively, (i) the Bank of
Ceylon and (ii) the Peoples' Bank, pursuant to Section 3.06 of
this Agreement; and
(g) "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 25,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement betweer the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1991, and ending July 1, 2030
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of sur-h principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, admini*trative, agricultural and rural develop-
ment practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Project Steering Committee,
a Discrict'Coordinatioa Committee in Matale, and a District
Coordination Committee in Puttalam, the memberships and terms of
reference of which shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(b) appoint and maintain a Project Director in Matale, and a
Project Director in Puttalam, having qualifications and experience
and with functions and responsibilities all satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association; and
(c) provide technical assistance for Matale, Puttalam and
Kurunegala, and employ consultants having qualifications and
experience and upon terms and conditions of employment all satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of,, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards


﻿-4-
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely ubabLe by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information.as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be1 taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when


﻿-5-
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the agri-
cultural credit under Part B of the Project shall be provided in
accordance with rules and procedures satisfactory to the Associ-
ation. To this end, the Borrower shall enter into subsidiary
agreements satisfactory to the Association with, respectively, (i)
the Bank of Ceylon and (ii) the Peoples' Bank.
Such subsidiary agreements shall include provisions with
regard to a program for the reduction of arrears, and the review
of onlending rates in order to achieve and maintain said rates at
positive levels in real terms in line with the Borrower's pre-
vailing policies.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause all plans and designs for facilities under the
Project, to be in accordance with specifications and guidelines
satisfactory to the Association;
(b) ensure that institutional arrangements made for the
operation and maintenance of facilities under the Project are
satisfactory to the Association;
(c) cause facilities under the Project, to be maintained in
accordance with sound administrative and engineering practices,
and shall ensure that adequate staff are provided for this
purpose'; and
(d) ensure that sufficient funds are provided to its
various implementing departments and agencies to meet all oper-
ational, maintenance and other recurrent expenditures under the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of its
various departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project, to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the


﻿-6-
Project, of such departments or agencies of the Borrower, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures described in Categories (1) through
(6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
on account of w-ich withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause such departments or agencies to
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture and shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause each of its
various departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project, to have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
in respect of the Project, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) consolidate, both on a District and a Project level, the
said accounts and financial statements of the said various
departments and agencies; (iii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the
consolidated accounts and financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its various depart-
ments and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project,
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance


﻿-7-
against such risks and in sucK amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Bank of Ceylon or
the Peoples' Bank shall have failed to perform any covenant or
obligation under their respective subsidiary agreements with the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has, pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, entered into a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the
Association of this Agreement, with the Bank of Ceylon;
(b)  the Borrower has, pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, entered into a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the
Association, with the Peoples' Bank; and
(c)  the Borrower has, pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement, appointed consultants to supervise the implementation
of the Project, with qualifications and experience, on terms and
conditions of employment, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) the subsidiary agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Peoples' Bank pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, has been duly executed and is legally binding on the
Borrower and the Peoples' Bank; and
(b) the subsidiary agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, has been duly executed and is legally binding on the
Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon.
Section 6.03. The date               49a          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECMINFIN                          1232
Colombo                            FORAID


﻿9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     9,910,000      80%
(2) Financial assistance              760,000      50%
by the Borrower to
private farmers
for field works
under Parts A.1
and A.2 of the
Project
(3) Labor required for              1,520,000      100%
field works under
Parts A.4 and A.5
of the Project
(4) Salaries of addi-                 380,000
tional staff for
road maintenance
and rehabilitation
under Parts D.1 and
D.2 of the Project
incurred in:
(a) 1981, 1982 and 1983                        100%
(b) 1984 and thereafter                        50%
(5) Agricultural credits            1,140,000       50% of amounts
under Part B.1 of                              disbursed by
the Project                                    Peoples' Bank
and Bank of
Ceylon in ex-
cess of amount
specified in
paragraph 4
(b) hereunder


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Agricultural credits          1,520,000         80% of amounts
under Parts B.2,                               disbursed by
B.3, B.4 and 8.5 of                            Peoples' Bank
the Project                                    and Bank of
Ceylon
(7) Equipment, vehicles           3,430,000
and spares
(a) directly imported                          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-
factured                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured locally                           80%
(8) Consultants' services         1,900,000         100%
and training
(9) Unallocated                   5,040,000
TOTAL        25,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower..
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿- 12 -
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, -by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of one million
dollars ($1,000,000) may be made in respect of Categories (1),
(3), (7) and (8) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after June 30, 1980; and
(b) in respect of expenditures under Category (5), unless
and until such expenditures for the calendar year shall exceed
Rs 4,600,000 and then only to cover such excess.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 13 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to assist the Borrower in developing
the rural areas in an integrated manner for purposes of raising
productivity, employment, income and living standards of the
population, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Agriculture
1.   Coconut development in Puttalam.
2.   Minor export crops development in Matale and Puttalam.
3.   Improvement of agricultural supporting services in
Matale and Puttalam.
4.   Sericulture in Matale.
5.   Silviculture development in Matale and Puttalam.
6.   Livestock development in Matale and Puttalam.
7.   Fisheries development in Puttalam.
Part B:   Agricultural Credit
1.   Short-term production credit for field crops in Matale
and Puttalam.
2.   Medium-term credit for coconut development in Puttalam,
farm equipment, and vehicles in Matale and Puttalam.
3.   Long-term credit for minor export crops development, and
sericulture sheds in Matale.
4.   Long-term credit for tubewell development in Puttalam.
5.   Long-term credit for agricultural storage facilities
in Matale and Puttalam.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:  Water Resources
1.   Improvement of irrigation schemes in Matale and Putta-
lam, and water management in Matale, Puttalam and
Kurunegala.
2.  'Exploration and exploitation of groundwater resources in
Puttalam.
3.   Installation of wells in rural areas deficient in
drinking water in Matale and Puttalam.
Part D:  Economic Infrastructure
1.   Rehabilitation of feeder roads, cart and foot paths in
Matale and Puttalam; and construction of portions of a
new road in Matale.
2.  Improvement of maintenance of roads and strengthening
of the capability of the Department of Highways to
implement a continuing road maintenance program in
Matale and Puttalam.
3.   Installation of rural electrification schemes in Matale
and Puttalam.
Part E:  Social Infrastructure
1.   Improvement of health care in Matale and Puttalam.
2.   Improvement of education and vocational training in
Matale and Puttalam.
Part F:  Project Coordination and Management
Support of ongoing efforts toward decentralized multi-
sectoral development.
The Project is expected to'be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on *the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka if
the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery,'pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods


﻿- 18 -
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All civil works, and field works under Parts A.1, A.2,
A.4 and A.5 of the Project, may be carried out by contracts
awarded through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Association or by force account.
2.   Farm inputs, equipment and vehicles under Part 6 of the
Project may be procured through normal commercial channels in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Subject to the limit of sub-paragraph (iii) below, (i)
medical and educational equipment under Part E of the Project may
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satis'factory to the Association, (ii) vehicles,
equipment and spares which are urgently needed, or which cannot be
suitably bulked for procurement under Part A of this Schedule and
which cost less than $10,000 each contract, or which are to be
purchased by the staff of the Borrower's implementing departments
and agencies under the Project, may be procured after soliciation
of three quotations from independent suppliers in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, and (iii) provided all
such purchases under subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, shall not
in the aggregate exceed $1,400,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, vehicles and
spares estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 19 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Associatioa shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to th2 Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                         S    E
FOR SECRETARY


