Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3262 MOR
              (Second Rural Electrification Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 14, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3262 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1991, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the National
Electricity Authority (ONE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONE the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   by an agreement transmitted to the Bank under cover of
a letter dated August 7, 1990 from the Borrower, (the Implementation
Agreement) between the Borrower's Ministries of Interior, Finance
Page  2
and Energy and Mines, and ONE, the Borrower and ONE have agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and ONE;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ONE" means the National Electricity Authority (Office
National de l'Electricite), a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law (Dahir) No. 1-63-226 dated
August 5, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ONE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ONE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and "Special Accounts" means
collectively all of said accounts;
      (e)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (f)   "Power Sub-sector Development Action Plan" means the
Borrower's plan of actions outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02
of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Basic Law" means the Law (Dahir) No. 1-63-226 dated
August 5, 1963, referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this Section,
pertaining to the establishment and operations of ONE; and
      (h)   "Fundamental Legislation" means the Laws (Dahir) No. 1-
59-271 dated April 14, 1960 and No. 1-61-402 dated June 30, 1962,
pertaining to the Borrower's financial control of public
enterprises, including ONE, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000),
Page  3
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in a currency and at a financial institution on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a special account
designated "Special Account A" in respect of Part A (2) of the
Project; and (ii) a special account designated "Special Account B"
in respect of Parts A (1), A (3) and B of the Project. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Page  4
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause ONE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of ONE therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable ONE to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make available to ONE the proceeds of
the Loan as follows: (i) an amount equivalent to ninety-six million
five hundred thousand dollars ($96,500,000) on a grant basis in
respect of Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) and (4) ("Tranche A");
and (ii) an amount equivalent to seventeen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($17,500,000) under a subsidiary financing
agreement (the Subsidiary Financing Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ONE, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include, without
limitation, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ONE
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, including
                   those for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than seven (7) months after
                   the end of each such year the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. In accordance with the Borrower's objective of
improving the operations and financial efficiency of the power sub-
sector, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
necessary to ensure that the Power Sub-sector Development Action
Plan shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency.
      Section 4.03. In order to facilitate the proper implementation
of each of ONE's investment programs referred to in Section 3.04 (b)
of the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to enable ONE to implement the plan, referred to in said
Section, for the financing of said investment programs, as they
shall have been approved by the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   ONE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   The Basic Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ONE to perform any of its obligations under
Page  6
the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Fundamental Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of ONE to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ONE or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   Any of the parties to the Implementation Agreement shall
have failed to perform any of its respective obligations under the
Implementation Agreement, so as to affect materially and adversely
the carrying out of the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d)
and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ONE.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ONE, and is legally binding upon ONE in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ONE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ONE in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre des Finances
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco
            Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  7
                   MINISTERE FINANCES        31936M
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                         By /s/ S.E. Mohammed Belkhayat Zougari
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Goods                             )        100% of foreign
                                        )        expenditures,
      (a) for Part A(2)        8,000,000)        100% of local
          of the                        )        expenditures
          Project                       )        (ex-factory cost)
                                        )        and 78% of
      (b) for Parts           35,400,000)        local expendi-
          A(1), A(3)                    )        tures for other
          and B of the                  )        items procured
          Project                       )        locally
(2)   Works                             )        56%
                                        )
      (a) for Part A(2)        9,500,000)
          of the Project                )
Page  8
                                        )
      (b) for Parts A(1)      54,200,000)
          and A(3) of the               )
          Project                       )
(3)   Consultants'             2,700,000         100%
      services
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)   Training                   200,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(5)   Unallocated              4,000,000
                             ___________
            TOTAL          114,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (1) develop and upgrade
the power distribution network in rural areas of the Borrower's
territory; and (2) implement institutional and policy reforms
designed to improve the financial and economic efficiency of the
Borrower's power sub-sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Carrying out of a program to provide electrical power to about
465 villages in rural areas, consisting of the:
      (1)   construction of about 5,850 kilometers of medium- and
            low-voltage power lines and distribution transformers
            and regional operating facilities;
      (2)   construction of about 170,000 consumer connections; and
      (3)   provision of vehicles and specialized equipment required
            for the proper operation and maintenance of the power
            distribution network constructed under the Project.
Part B:
      (1)   Carrying out of a program to develop and implement
            suitable policies and procedures for the: (a)
            implementation of a national tariff policy for the
            Borrower's power sub-sector; (b) proper monitoring and
Page  9
            control of works related to the development of the power
            distribution network; and (c) management of ONE's
            inventory;
      (2)   carrying out of a training program to strengthen the
            skills of ONE's staff in the design and marketing of
            power distribution systems; and
      (3)   provision of computer hardware and software required for
            the carrying out of the programs under Parts B (1) and
            B (2) of the Project.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1996                                  2,075,000
July 15, 1996                                     2,155,000
January 15, 1997                                  2,240,000
July 15, 1997                                     2,325,000
January 15, 1998                                  2,415,000
July 15, 1998                                     2,510,000
January 15, 1999                                  2,605,000
July 15, 1999                                     2,710,000
January 15, 2000                                  2,815,000
July 15, 2000                                     2,920,000
January 15, 2001                                  3,035,000
July 15, 2001                                     3,155,000
January 15, 2002                                  3,275,000
July 15, 2002                                     3,400,000
January 15, 2003                                  3,535,000
July 15, 2003                                     3,670,000
January 15, 2004                                  3,815,000
July 15, 2004                                     3,960,000
January 15, 2005                                  4,115,000
July 15, 2005                                     4,275,000
January 15, 2006                                  4,440,000
July 15, 2006                                     4,610,000
January 15, 2007                                  4,790,000
July 15, 2007                                     4,975,000
January 15, 2008                                  5,170,000
July 15, 2008                                     5,370,000
January 15, 2009                                  5,575,000
July 15, 2009                                     5,795,000
January 15, 2010                                  6,020,000
July 15, 2010                                     6,250,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                     The interest rate (ex-
                                     pressed as a percentage
                                     per annum) applicable to
Page  10
                                     the Loan on the day of
                                     prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                 Principal Terms and Conditions of
                the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
      Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
1.    The Borrower shall relend to ONE the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a)
("Tranche B").
2.    The principal amount of Tranche B shall be the equivalent in
the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the date or
respective dates of repayment by ONE) of the value of the currency
or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the
Special Account on account of the cost of goods and works for
Part A (2) of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a).
3.    Tranche B shall have a maturity of not more than twenty (20)
years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than five (5) years.
4.    Tranche B shall be charged on the principal amount thereof,
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate not
less than the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 5
             Power Sub-sector Development Action Plan
      For purposes of Section 4.02 of this Agreement the Power Sub-
sector Development Action Plan shall consist of the following:
A.    Tariff Study
      The Borrower shall:
1.    carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a study to develop structures and levels of electricity tariffs for
its power sub-sector which take into account the long run marginal
cost of electric power, as well as the Borrower's objective of
ensuring the financial soundness of ONE and other public electricity
Page  11
distribution utilities;
2.    define and decide upon, not later than December 31, 1990, the
basic elements of its national tariff structure for its power sub-
sector, and furnish to the Bank promptly upon its completion a copy
of said study, together with the recommendations based thereon; and
3.    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on the results and conclusions of said study, and
thereafter take all measures necessary at the time of each tariff
adjustment to ensure the gradual implementation of such
recommendations so as to carry out, not later than June 30, 1992,
its national tariff policy for its power sub-sector based on the
recommendations of said study, as they shall have been agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
B.    Sector Arrears
1.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:
      (a)   each of its public agencies shall pay the balance of its
electricity bills due and payable as of December 31, 1990, in three
(3) equal installments, with the first installment due not later
than December 31, 1991, the second installment due not later than
December 31, 1992 and the third installment due not later than
December 31, 1993;
      (b)   each of its public agencies shall pay its electricity
bills, other than those referred to in subparagraph 1 (a) of this
Part B, promptly upon the issuance thereof in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (c)   beginning fiscal year ending December 31, 1991,
budgetary allocations shall be made for each fiscal year in the
relevant budget or budgets of its public agencies in amounts
sufficient to ensure the fulfillment of the obligations set forth in
sub-paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b) of this Part B.
2.    For purposes of this Section:
      (a)   the term "public agencies" means the Borrower's
ministries, departments and political or administrative
subdivisions; and
      (b)   the term "electricity bills" means, in respect of each
of the public agencies, the amounts periodically billed by ONE and
other electricity distribution utilities to such public agencies for
the supply of electricity and the provision of related works and
services by ONE and such other electricity distribution utilities to
such public agencies.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a)
and (2) (a) for purposes of the Special Account A, and Categories
(1) (b) and (2) (b), (3) and (4) for purposes of the Special Account
B set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocations" means an amount
equivalent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
Page  12
deposited in the Special Account A, and an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account B, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocations. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Accounts such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Accounts at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Accounts for
                   Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
Page  13
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
