Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9491
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2645-BR)
APRIL 12, 1991
Infrastructure Sector Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNB         -     Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
BNDES       -     National Bank for Economic and Social Development
BNH         -     National Housing Bank
CEAG        -     Management Assistance Center
CEBRAE      -     Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
COHAB       -     State Low-Cost Housing Company
CNDU        -     National Council of Urban Development
DNOC        -     National Department Against Droughts
DNOS        -     National Department for Sanitation Work3
FSESP       -     Special Public Health Services Foundation
IDB         -     Inter-American Development Bank
MDU         -     Ministry of Urban Development and Environment
MINTER      -     Ministry of Interior
PLANASA     -     National Sanitation Plan
PROENE      -     Program for Emergency Reconstruction oi thu Northeast Region
SEPLAN      -     Ministry of Planning
SECPLAN     -     State Secretariat of Planning
SUDENE      -     Superintendency for Development of the Northeast
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme



THE WO0.D SANK                 FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Washington, O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OUke at ov"IMvCOM41
Oovatuwt IvMg,Bulwn
April 12. 1991
EMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Brazil
Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction Project (Loan 2645-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction Project (Loan
2645-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has £ stsricted distribution and may be usd by reipiens only in the perfomnnce
of their official duties. Its contenu may not otherwise be disciaed without World Bank authaodzun.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2645-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
No.
Preface ............................... . .
Evaluation Summary  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. . . .i. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .           . . . .      1. 
Project Identity  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 1
The Government's Response and the Role of Development Banks . . .   2
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   3
Project Objectives  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .3
Components  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .  .    4
Project Implementation  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........    4
Major Results of the Project  ....  .  .    .    ..........    5
Project Sustainability  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........    7
Bank; Performance  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .........  .    7
Borrower Performance  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........    7
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Consulting Services ............ .........                        .    8
Project Documentation and Data  .... ........... .                     8
Lessons and Recommendations .i.o.n.s.....   ..........                 9
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .  11
PART III -BASIC DATA      ......................
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Project Timetable          .............. . 17
Loan Disbursements  ......... ..............    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Project Results ......................... .                                 .
A. Direct Benefits .22
B. Economic Impact    ..22
C. Financial Thpact.                                                        22
D. Studies .23
Status of Covenants    ..24
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
B. Missions .27



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2645-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report refers to the Northeast Urban Flood
Reconstruction Project in Brazil, for which a loan in the amount of US$100.0
million equivalent was approved on December 19, 1985. The loan was closed on
July 17, 1989, one year behind schedule. The last disbursement was on July 27,
1989. Total disbursements were US$98.6 million and US$1.4 million were canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Sector Operations Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office Country Department I
(Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). In March 1990, the Project Coordination
Unit (SUDENE/CRA) submitted to the Bank, their PCR which includes detailed
Annexes including completed physical works in each of the nine states that
benefitted from the Project. The Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
has been summarized in Part II of this report.
Preparation of this PCR began during a specia3 supervision mission in
February 1990 and is based inter-alia, on the Memorandum of the President; the
Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports and discussions with the project
team in Recife.



ii
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2645-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOPT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    This Project Completion Report refers to an operation financed by the World
Bank in response to emergency reconatruction after a natural disaster in the
Northeast (NE) region of Brazil. During the first three months of 1985, heavy
rains seriously affected an area of 322,000 km2 -- one-third of the territory of
the nine Northeast States. Of the 1,386 municipalities in the nine States, one
third, or 458 municipalities, sustained damages as a result of the rains and the
ensuing flood. Ninety percent of these affected municipalities were declared to
be in a state of emergency. More than 5,300 dams and reservoirs of various sizes
were destroyed while transport and communications were seriously disrupted, in
some csses for as long as three months. Much of the economic activity in nearly
half of the affected cities and towns was paralyzed, particularly in the low-
income neighborhoods (which were also the low-lying areas).  Many industri&l,
commercial and service establishments suffered significant losses not only due
to stoppage of operations but also to losses in inventory and damage to
machinery, equipment and other fixed capital.   Agricultural output was also
sharply reduced.
2.    Following immediate emergency relief measures, the Ministry of Interior
(MINTER) through the federal-level organization, Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), coordinated a working group composed of
representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Agriculture, Industry
& Commerce, Energy & Mines, Transport, Health, Education and Urban Development
to prepare a regional rehabilitation plan, based on draft proposals from the nine
States.  The plan gave priority to the restoration of essential services and
economic activities, including the repair and/or replacement of roads, dams,
reservoirs, urban infrastructure, shelter and provision of agricultural credit
and seeds. It was the basis for the issuance of Presidential Decree No. 91265
of May 24, 1985, which established an Emergency Reconstruction Program for the
Northeast Region (PROENE), budgeted to invest an estimated US$430 million. About
42Z (US$182 million) was budgeted for 1985, of which US$71 million was
distributed to the States and Federal agencies. In addition, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) reallocated US$50 million out of existing loans for
highway rehabilitation while the World Bank reallocated US$60 million from Loan
2062-BR (Northwest Highways) for the rehabilitca-.ion of water supply, drainage,
urban streets, and flood protection in the 22 cities and towns which had suffered
the most damage.
B. Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were two-fold: a) to assist the physical and
economic rehabilitation of Northeast urban areas damaged by the flood; and b) to
strengthen the planning capacity at the regional, state and municipal levels.



iii
Of the 458 municipalities damaged by the flood, 160 were damaged sufficiently to
justify the preparation of integrated reconstruction programs.
C. Implementation Experience
4.    A number of unforseen factors affected implementation:  a) bureaucratic
infighting at the federal level delayed loan signing by four months, thus, the
Bank was unable to participate in the immediate repairs and rehabilitation of
about 65,000 dwellings for which construction materials were provided by the
Reconstruction Program; b) very high rates of inflation and the state of the
national economy during the entire implementation period (1986-89) resulted in
a chronic shortage of counterpart funds; and c) constant institutional changes
at all levels (e.g., there were three Ministers of MINTER, the Superintendent of
SUDENE was changed four times and the coordinator of PROENE changed five times).
Fortunately, with Bank intervention and the very efficient and decisive response
from the Minister of the Interior, project implementation was put back on track
in 1987, when a number of operational and policy improvements implemented were
undertaken, PROENE staff was reinforced, the project was simplified and the Bank
increased its share of financing. The loan was closed on July 17, 1989, one year
behind schedule. The last disbursement was on July 27, 1989 bringing the total
amount disbursed to US$98.6 million (the balance of US$1.4 million was canceled).
D. Major Results of the Project
5.    The main project objectives were achieved:   of the total number of
municipalities affected by the floods, 784 received some form of assistance,
directly or indirectly.   PROENE estimated that a total of 990,000 persons
benefitted from the emergency aid. With the hundreds of small, medium and large
scale flood protection works, more than six million persons were protected from
the violent torrential rains/floods of 1988 and 1989, mostly in the fo:Ar States
of Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and Piaui.
6.    In specific, four major dike systems with pumping stations were built to
provide protection for 210,000 people out of a total urban population of 550,000.
Relocation of families was limited to Cruz do Espirito Santo (1,000 families) and
Salvador (500 families along the Camurugipe River). Five macro drainage works
were built in the capital cities of Macei6, Aracajd and Salvador. For Salvador,
the project financed the completion of thLe Camurugipe River training and
channelization, which had flooded the main arterial highway to two meters in
1988. With the completion of these large-scale protection works, these urban
areas are no longer vulnerable to periodic flooding.
7.    The US$100 million Bank reconstruction loan, plus the US$18 million in Bank
funds reallocated from loan 2062-BR, generated US$75 million equivalent in
counterpart funds and US$77 mAllion equivalont in direct Federal assistance to
the municipalities  for a total of US$270 million.   These  funds provided
assistance to 500,000 people who had to leave their houses during the floods.
8.    The technical team of PROENE developed a methodology for identifying areas
of flood protection by priorities, based on socio-economic analysis as well as
technical and economic justification for implementing flood prevention works,
using remote sensing and field surveys. Flood areas of the Apodi, Jaguaribe,
Mearim, Parnaiba, Pindare, Piranhas, and Slo Francisco river basins were mapped
to serve as development guidelines.  A complete profile and analysis of the
Parnaiba River for sections with the greatest flood risk was completed with a



iv
series of overlays and detailed guidelines. Similar preliminary analyses were
initiated for the Apodi and Piranhas rivers.  Each Bank mission expressed to
MINTER and SUDENE the need for the PROENE team to complete these critical flood
hazard evaluations for ali nine river basins and provide periodic updates from
the satellite imagery.
E. Project Sustainability
9.    The major dikes and macro drainage canals have a useful life of more than
50 years if properly maintained. In contrast, the network of drainage canals and
the reh. bilitation of paving are affected by annual torrential rains.  As a
consequence, they require annual maintenance.   PROENE's technical staff has
recommended appropriate schedules for the maintenance and repairs of the major
components financed by the Bank.
10.   PROENE has demonstrated its ability to supervise the preparation and
implementation of major as well as minor flood protection works. As a result,
MINTER has made PROENE responsible for additional investments that were not part
of the project.   SUDENE is looking for ways to preserve the PROENE team to
continue their work on flood risk analysis as well as the implementation of
additional flood protection works.   Additional works and studies are being
proposed for Bank financing under a Municipal Development Project, prepared by
SUDENE and presently under consideration by SEPLANISEAIN. At present prices, the
preliminary estimate for completion of major drainage networks initiated under
this project in Aracajt, Barreiras and Macei6 is about US$30 million.
F. Lessons Learned
11.   The main lessons  learned from the experience with this project are
summarized below. Specifically for the Borrower:
(a) To the extent possible, project design should be kept simple, as the
inclusion of multiple components and institutions greatly increases
the risks to the project;
(b) the use of existing institutions however weak (such as SUDENE),
strengthened with a specific well staffed and managed team
(SUDENE/CRA), is preferable to the creation of special new agencies,
which would require a period of adjustment and learning on the job;
(c) project management units should be staffed with an interdisciplinary
team of professionals to cover all fields of project management. In
this case, adequate attention should have been given to the skills
of financial management and technical assistance and training for
municipal staff involved in project implementation and operation and
maintenance;
(d) a system to monitor project implementation (physical, financial and
institutional) should be established, preferably before the project
begins implementation, to allow for adequate management and the
evaluation of project impact;
(e) As an emergency reconstruction effort, this proiect would have
benefitted from a less complex set of institutional arrangements



v
than that initially adopted to coordinate the planning and
disbursement of program fundsl
(f) the decentralization of implementation responsibilities, coupled
with provision of tecinical assistance and training to the
institutions sharing responsibility for project implementation, tend
to decrease the risk caused by the concentration of responsibilities
in one single agency, such as SUDENE/PROENE in this case;
(g) given the insufficient number of qualified staff to implement the
technical assistance and studies component, SUDENE should have
employed consultants to assist in the provision of technical
assistance and to carry out studies on flood risk analysis; and
(h) given the periodic occurrence of floods in the Northeast of Brazil,
SUDENE should establish a permanent team to administer, with the
support of state and local authorities, flood plain L.anagement
programs for the nine major river basins of the region.
13.   The major lessons learned applicable to the Bank are that:
(a) the implementation of reconstruction/rehabilitation works and the
Bank's monitoring should begin immediately after negotiations;
(b) supervision missions should, insofar as logistically possible, be
planned at flexible intervals according to project needs rather than
to Bank's normal biyearly schedule;
(c) as emergency loans are put together in a great hurry, and hence use
fewer resources than normal projects, the Bank should budget at
least 50Z over the normal 12-15 staff weeks allocated annually for
supervision to finalize many of the details left to be defined
during project implementation;
(d) experienced financial analysts should be included in the Bank
supervision missions to review financial issues on a regular basis
to monitor the impact of high inflation, exchange rate fluctuations
and similar issues, and review overall financial management of
projects.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2645-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Project Name:  Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction Project
- Loan No.:      2645-BR
- RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department I
- Country:       Brazil
- Sector:        Urban Development
B. Project Background
1.    This Project Completion Report refers to an operation financed by the World
Bank in response to emergency reconstruction after a natural disaster in the
Northeast (NE) region of Brazil. The NE region is composed of a narrow alluvial
coastal plain extending 2,400 km with the traditional cultivation of sugar cane
and cotton for export through the ports of Recife and Fortaleza. The semi-arid
lands which extend 600 to 800 km to the interior have been plagued by periodic
droughts, which have forced a large emigration of the rural population. Nine
major rivers flow across the region to the east and form the networks on which
the urban settlements have developed; however their historic records show
periodic floods. The risk of flooding had been substantially reduced, and in
some instances eliminated, in the areas of influence of major hydroelectric,
irrigation and flood control dams. Nevertheless, with the increase in migration
to urban centers, squatters had settled during the last decade in make-shift
dwellings  on  flood plains  to be  close  to scarce water  resources.   The
vulnerability of large areas in the region to flooding was further increased as
reductions in municipal revenues due to the drought forced severe cutbacks in
road maintenance and flood protection works, which had low priority under drought
conditions.
2.    During the first three months of 1985, heavy rains seriously affected an
area of 322,000 km2 -- one-third of the territory of the eight Northeast States.
In four States (Maranhlo, Piaui, Ceara, and Rio Grande do Norte), some areas
received three to four times the average January-April rainfall. Of the 1,386
municipalities in the nine States, one third or 458 municipalities sustained
damages as a result of the rains and the ensuing flood.  Of this number, 414
municipalities had been declared to be in a state of emergency. More than 5,300
dams and reservoirs of various sizes were destroyed while transport and
communications were seriously disrupted, in some cases for as long as three
months. Many towns had to be abandoned while others were totally cut off from
the road network for a month or more. About one million persons, mainly in the



2
States of Maranhdo, Piaui, Cear6 and Rio Grande do Norte, were forced to flee
their dwellings   Of this number, approxim&tely 700,000 lived in urban areas.
Much of the economic activity of about 190 cities and towns was paralysed,
particularly in the low-income neighborhoods (which were also the low-lying
areas).    Many  industrial,  commercial  and  service  establishments  suffered
significant losses not only due to stoppage of operations but also to losses in
inventorv and damage to machinery, equipment and other fixed capital.
Agricultural output was also sharply reduced. The worst case was the State of
Maranhao with a loss equivalent to 1.8 million tons -- more than half of its
rice, corn, beans, manioc and cotton crops. The disruptive nature of the flood
was due not only to he high water level over a wide area, but also to its
duration. Since some areas in the Northeast remained under water for a prolonged
period of time -- approximately three months -- conditions deteriorated
progressively.   The restoration of productive activities and normal living
conditions was blocked in many municipalities until the flood had receded. Based
on incomplete data, the cost of damage to urban infrastructuro, community
facilities, shelter and the productive sectors had been estimated at over US$950
million. In addition, over US$10 million had been spent on temporary shelter,
food, medicine and clothing.
The Government's Response and the Role of Development Banks
3.    Emergency relief measures by the Federal Government through its Federal
Civil Defense Program, SUDENE and the Red Cross had effectively provided food,
medicines, tents and large canvas shelters. The state and municipal authorities
successfully rescued families and animals from areas completely cut off by the
flood. The Ministry of Interior (MINTFR) through SUDENE coordinated a working
group composed of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance,
Agriculture, Industry & Commerce, Energy & Mines, Transport, Health, Education
and Urban Development to prepare a regional rehabilitation plan, based on draft
proposals from the nine States. The plan gave priority to the restoration of
essential services and economic activities, including the repair and/or
replacement of roads, dams, reservoirs, urban infrast-acture, shelter and
provision of agricultural credit and seeds. It was the basis for the issuance
of Presidential rDecree No. 91265 of May 24, 1985, which established a
Reconstruction Program for the Northeast region. The total cost of the program
was estimated at CR53 trillion (US$430 million at end-August 1985 exchange rate)
for: (L) federal, state and municipal highways; (b) urban infrastructure
including shelter and public buildings; (c) social infrastructure for education
and health; (d) agriculture - seed distribution and credits; (e) flood protection
- dams, barrages and dikes; and (f) other measures - insluding the rehabilitation
of industrial, commercial, services, communication and energy sectors. For 1985,
about CR$1.3 trillion (US$182 million) had been budgeted, of which CR$490 billion
(US$71 nillion) had been distributed to thc States and Federal agencies.   In
addition, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) had reallocated US$50 million
out of existing loans for highway rehabilitation while thf World Bank had
reallocated from Loan 2062-BR US$60 million for critical highway and urban
reconstruction works.   Bank support under Loan 2062-BR was limited to the
rehabilitation of water supply, drainage, urban streets, and flood procection in
22 cities and towns of five States which suffered the most damage.  Therefore,
the project intended to help GOB implement its urban reconstruction program over
a broader geographic area (nine States compared with five under Loan 2062-BR) and
take a more comprehensive approach to reconstruction with the inclusion of other
priority activities such as the rehabilitation of shelter and community



3
facilities, assistance to flood-damaged micro enterprises and technical
assistance and studies.
C. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were two-fold: a) to assist the physical and
economic rehabilitation of Northeast urban areas damaged by the flood; and b) to
strengthen the planning capacity at the regional, state and municipal levels.
Of the 458 municipalities damaged by the flood, 160 were damaged sufficiently to
justify the preparation of integrated reconstruction programs.
5.    Components
As appraised, the project included the following ^omponents:
(1) Shelter
a) rehabilitation of 63,000 dwellings;
b) reconstruction of 50,000 dwellings;
c) relocation of 4,000 dwellings;
(2) Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure
a)  improvements,  repairs  and  extension  of water  supply  for  150
municipalities;
b) reconstruction and cleaning of 115 kilometers of water distribution
networks;
c) repair and partial reconstruction of 295 kilometers of streets and
local storm drainage;
d) flood protection works in 25 municipalities including 70 kilometers
of dikes, retaining walls, groins and storm water pumping stations
inside the dikes;
e) starm drainage works of canals and culverts for low-lying areas in
85 municipalities plus the acquisition of various vehicles;
(3) Repair and Reconstruction of Community Facilities and Public Buildings
a) essential municipal buildings;
b) primary schools and health posts;
c) markets, communal buildings and facilities;
(4) Micro Enterprise Credits to f-lustrial and commercial micro
enterprises damaged by the floods;
(5) Technical Assistance and Studies
a) assessment of the flood risks in the nine major river basins using
remote sensirAg and technical ground survey;
b) develop flood plain management plans with the overall framework and
land use zoning plans for 25 municipalities;
c) technical assistance to 60 municipalities in planning and urban
management;



4
d) study to evaluate the economic impact of the project.
D. Project Design and Organization
6.    Although every attempt was made to keep the project simple, the nature of
the disaster influenced project design. The extent of the flood along nine river
basins over the nine states of the Northeast, called for an interdisciplinary
approach through the creation of an Interministerial Commission (Para. 3).
Within the CR$ 3 trillion (US$430 million) allocated for the overall
Reconstruction Program, CR$754 million (US$108 million) were earmarked as
counterpart funds for the Bank-financed project.
7.    The project concept was developed by SUDENE with inputs from Bank staff and
participation by Federal sectorial agencies such as CEBRAE and INPE between
April-July,  1985.    SUDENE  assembled  from  their  various  departments  an
interdisciplinary team of planners, engineers, hydrologists, geographers and
geologists in a new implementation unit (SUDENE/CRA) and a project (PROENE), in
May, 1985.  The SUDENE/CRA technical team had to adjust their strategy as the
flood season progressed south to inundate Salvador (Bahia) and environs. The
regional and state offices of SUDENE were briefed and oriented to the Program and
in particular their role in the financial control and supervision at the State
level. The team spent considerable time with the state planning officers and
municipal authorities to coordinate the detailed designs for the flood protection
as well as recornstruction works.
E. Project Implementation
8.    The loan was closed on July 17. 1989, one year behind schedule. The last
disbur.ement was on July 27, 1989 bringing the total to US$98.6 million. The
balar:ce of the loan amount of US$1.4 million were canceled. Project
implementation was not without difficulties.
9.    Unforseen Factors Affecting Project Implementation: Due to the four month
delay in signing the loan, the Bank was unable to participate in the immediate
repairs and rehabilitation of about 65,000 dwellings for which construction
materials were provided by the Reconstruction Program.   During the entire
implementation period 1986-89, the project along with all the other Bank Loans
suffered from the high rates of inflation.   Although all LCB construction
contracts were indexed for inflation, unfortunately towards the end of year, the
counterpart funds for construction works were always a problem. There were also
many public administrative changes that affected the project.  At the Federal
level, there were three Ministers of MINTER and the Superintendent of SUDENE was
changed  four  times.    The  coordinator  of  SUDENE/CRA  changed  five  times.
Fortunately, the technical staff of SUDENE/CRA was not otly retained but in fact
reinforced with additional supervisory personnel during these changes so as not
to affect project impiementation.
10.   Actions and Decisions Taken which Affected the Project Implementation:
During the second Supervision Mission (May, 1987) the list of eligible
municipalities was revised to include all the municipalities that were affected
by the 1985 flood. Part D Credit for Micro Enterprises was eliminated because
the National Monetary Council did not agree to the higher interest rates to be
charged. The US$5.5 million was transferred to component B-3 (Flood Protection
Works).    The  low-cost  sanitation  component  was  also  el4minated  due  to



5
administrative/financial difficulties. Assistance was to have been provided by
UNDP  (TAG and SUDENE  sanitary engineers)  for all nine States.   Part E-3
(Technical Assistance to Municipalities) was to have been implemented by the new
Ministry of Urban Development  (MDU).   Unfortunately, the MDU was unable to
participate so that program was transferred to SUDENE which also in turn, was not
able to undertake this important task, except through the interventions of
PROENE's planning unit.  The subsequent floods of 1988 and 1989 on some of the
same river basins placed a greater emphasis on flood protection works with very
little attention to the technical assistance component. During 1987 many small
flood protection works were implemented; however, many of the large-scale works
were stopped due to short, s of counterpart funds.
11.   The Third Supervis.  iission (November of 1987) concluded that in order
to overcome funds const-  -r, and to complete the most urgent works before the
next floods, the Bank dib.  s-.:e   percentage should be increased from 55Z to 75Z
and municipalities should als- ms,re contributions from their own source revenues.
This proposal was agreed, and the Loan Agreement amended effective as of October,
1987. With this change, SUDENF/CRA was able to complete the remaining large-
scale works by September, 1988. However, the most significant contribution of
that mission addressed serious institutional weaknesses in the modus operandi of
the PROENE.  Quote "...However, as you will note from the Aide Memoire, the most
serious problems afflicting this project in addition to the absence of
counterpart funds is that of inadequate project management and monitoring. The
SUDENE/CRA has performed satisfactorily in attempting to supervise the works.
However, it is inadequately staffed to provide coverage to states and
municipalities, in order to process their expenditures. The CRA needs additional
experienced technical and support staff, and an increase in the frequency, and
improvement in the quality, of supervision visits to municipalities, to compile
certified expenditures and supporting documentation. Particularly there is a
need to establish and implement very clear accounting and reporting systems
immediately. There is also an urgent need for improved procedures, for speeding
up the processing of requests for withdrawals of loan funds from the Special
Accounts, as well as of the processing of reimbursements to the various agencies.
From a review by the mission, the processing delays for compiling documentation
for statements of expenses incurred by the states is substantial. It also takes
approximately 6 weeks for SUDENE to reimburse legitimate expendituires made.
However the greater loss occurs in the time taken between the date when
expenditures are actually incurred and the date when their applications for
reimbursements are compiled and sent to SUDENE.   For example, reimbursement
application No. 44 was presented on October 2, 1987 to SUDENE for statements of
expenditures by a municipality for the period of January-June 1987; this
reimbursement of US$1 million. To generate such a disbursement now would require
an expenditure of more than CZ$100 million.  The mission estimated a loss of
approximately CZ$290,000 per day attributed only to the delays in sending the
accounts to SUDENE from the municipalities. On the other hand, officials from
SUDENE have to increase their efforts to expedite the preparation of statements
of expenses." Unquote.  (Quote from letter to the Minister of Interior).  The
Minister's response was quick and decisive.  Actions were implemented on all
fronts and within weeks, there was visible progress, which was sustained to
completion.



6
F. Major Results of the Project
12.   Project Objectives:  The main objective (i.e. to assist the physical and
economic rehabilitation of the Northeast urban areas damaged by the flood) was
achieved. Of the 980 municipalities affected by the floods, 784 received some
form of assistance, directly or indirectly. PROENE estimated that a total of
990,000 persons benefitted from the emergency aid. With the hundreds of small,
medium and large scale flood protection works, more than 6 million persons were
protected from the violent torrential rains/floods of 1988 and 1989, mostly in
the four States of Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and Piaui.
13.   Impact of Project:  Four major dike systems with pumping stations were
built to provide protection for 210,000 people out of a total urban population
of 550,000. The two dike systems for Teresina and Parnaiba on the Parnaiba River
are designed for a 100-year flood protection. Relocation of families was limited
to Cruz do Espirito Santo (1,000 families) and Salvador (500 families along the
Camurugipe River). Five macro drainage works were built in the capital cities
of Hacei6, Aracaj3t and Salvador.   For Salvador,  the project financed the
completion of the Camurugipe River training and channelization, which had flooded
the main arterial highway to two meters in 1988. With the completion of these
large-scale protection works,  the urban areas are no longer vulnerable to
periodic flooding.
14.   The project provided direct assistance in the form of building materials
to over 47,100 families for their housing rehabilitation and reconstruction. In
addition, the Federal Government provided direct assistance to the municipalities
for 65,000 families in the form of building materials, which were not financed
by the project.' Various agencies promoted innovative construction techniques
for low-cost housing such as soil-cement block and adaptation of the rough
"waste" planks from saw mills. However, their efforts stopped at the completion
of the prototypes due in part to lack of local support but mainly to the
inappropriate technology used.
15.   The US$100 million Bank reconstruction loan plus the US$18 million Bank
highway/infrastructure reallocated from loan 2062-BR generated US$75 million
equivalent in counterpart funds and US$77 million equivalent in direct Federal
assistance to the municipalities for a total of US$270 million.  These funds
provided direct assistance to the 500,000 people that had to leave their houses
during the floods. SUDENE/CRA estimates that about six million people received
benefits in the form of flood protection or direct aid for rebuilding. This is
roughly US$45 per capita.
16.   The technical team for PROENE developed a methodology for identifying areas
of flood protection by priorities, based on socio-economic analysis as well as
technical and economic justification for implementing flood prevention works,
using remote sensing and field surveys. Flood areas of the Apodi, Jaguaribe,
Mearim, Parnaiba, Pindare, Piranhas, and Sao Francisco river basins were mapped
to serve as development guidelines.   A complete profile and analysis of the
Parnaiba River for sections with the greatest flood risk has been completed with
The  municipal  accounts,   in  particular  the  building
materials receipts, could not be verified by the State authorities
and as such they could not be financed by the project.



7
a series of overlays and detailed guidelines. Similar preliminary analyses were
initiated for the Apodi and Piranhas rivers.  Each Bank mission expressed to
MINTER and SUDENE the need for the PROENE team to complete these critical flood
hazard evaluations for all nine river basins and provide periodic updates from
the satellite imagery.
G. Project Sustainability
17.   The major dikes and macro drainage canals have a useful life of more than
50 years if properly maintained. In contrast, the network of drainage canals and
the rehabilitation of paving are affected by annual torrential rains.  As a
consequence, they require annual maintenance.   PROENE's technical staff has
recommended appropriate schedules for the maintenance and repairs of the major
components financed by the Bank. The dikes around Teresina, Parnalba and Aracati
have annual maintenance programs while their respective pumping stations are
operated on a regular schedule. In contrast, the macro drainage works tend to
receive no maintenance because of their non-critical operation until the next
flood. For many of the municipalities, the macro drainage works were the first
major municipal endeavors requiring the services of engineers and consultants.
SUDENE had proposed that the Bank consider financing a municipal development
program to be implemented by each State, but this was not followed through due
to the more immediate priorities of the National Government to address rapidly
the deteriorating economy in the final years of the Sarney Administration.
18.   SUDENE/CRA had demonstrated its ability to supervise the preparation and
implementation of major as well as minor flood protection works. As a result,
MINTER had made SUDENE/CRA responsible for additional investments that were not
part of the project. SUDENE was looking for ways to preserve the PROENE team to
continue their work on flood risk analysis as well as the implementation of
additional flood protection works. However, SUDENE (in common with many other
institutions underwent mainy changes, following the change in the Federal
Administration in March 1990, and the situation is still evolving.
H. Bank Performance
19.   In five months between appraisal of the project and its presentation to the
Board, Bank staff was able to collect the appropriate data and evaluate the
components prepared by SUDENE/CRA and the municipalities. The four month delay
in signing the loan agreement was an internal matter of the Federal Government.
The first supervision mission was delayed because of lack of loan effectiveness.
All missions were understaffed; and early assistance on financial and physical
matters would have helped to organize the accounts and programs to achieve a more
efficient implementation of the project. In fact, during the first two years of
implementation (1986-87) the Bank did not allocate sufficient manpower to
supervise adequately the reconstruction and rehabilitation works especially in
the shelter component. Consequently the missions were barely able to address
physical and technical issues. Project management and financial issues were not
addressed until late in 1987 (para. 11). In addition, there was insufficient
time in the field for tbe missions to examine the various alternative technical
engineering solutions. Many of the large scale works of DNOS and DNOCS could not
be included for lack of time and resources to complete a technical appraisal.



8
I. Borrower Performance
20.   SUDENE's institutional capacity was chronically weak, and initial project
management  of  the project  agency  SUDENE/CRA was weak.    There were  also
substantial delays in submitting quarterly, annual and audit reports, Borrower
performance was satisfactory. However, SUDENE/CRA's performance in getting the
flood protection works implemented is noteworthy, given all institutional
difficulties the project experienced in its early stages (see Paragraphs 6, 8 and
9). This was especially so in 1988 when disbursements exceeded the anticipated
amounts for that period. During project preparation and appraisal, the Borrower
(especially through MINTER and SUDENE) provided all the support needed. Although
implementation of the physical components was good. The focus exclusively on the
physical implementation of the flood protection and rehabilitation works resulted
in the lack of adequate financial management, especially with regard to the
processing of financial documentation for reimbursement (which caused significant
financial losses to the project).  Furthermore, inadequate financial planning
resulted in a number of incomplete works whose potential benefits were limited.
With their main focus on physical components, there was little time available for
technical assistance and studies.  Only one study was fully completed on the
flood risk analysis.
J. Project Relationship
21.   The relative success of this project (Part I, paras. 11-15) is a result of
the good (friendly but firm) working relationships between the Bank staff and
SUDENE (especially the SUDENE\CRA team) and between SUDENE/CRA and the
municipalities whlich participated in the project implementation. The Bank was
particularly fortunate in being able to maintain continuity in supervision by
retaining the services of the retired staff member who was the original task
manager for the project.
K. Consulting Services
22.   Engineering consulting services were used for the design of major flood
protection works (such as in the canals of the Beberibe River in Recife, drainage
in Natal and Macau, dikes in Teresina and Aracati, the Mearim River training, the
dikes, canals and a groin in Aracaju and the dikes in Imperatriz, among others).
INPE was contracted to furnish satellite images for studies on flood risk
analysis.   Although the Bank did not directly oversee  the work of these
consultants, it was generally perceived to be of good quality.
L. Project Documentation and Data
23.   Due to the fact that this was an emergency project, no appraisal report was
prepared. Instead, a Memorandum of the President (MOP) was produced at once.
It was quite useful in the early stages of project implementation but became
outdated as many changes were needed to adjust the project to unforeseen
situations, as is inevitable in such reconstruction and recovery project. The
Loan Agreement was an important instrument to keep project within its original
focus and to hold responsible the various institutions involved in project.
implementation.
24.   Generally, most data for preparation of the PCR was readily available.
However, given that the monitoring system set up by SUDENE/CRA did not utilize



9
exactly the same indicators used in the president's report, additional work had
to be done to make them compatible and allow their use in the evaluation of the
project's results. Project data bases should be developed insofar as possible
according to the same monitoring indicators used in the appraisal report (or as
in this case, in the president's report) to permit an evaluation of project
results at its completion.  Also, Bank supervision missions should in future
alert project management to the extreme importance of monitoring the impact of
the project during its implementation and require an appropriate information
system to be set up in the early stages of project implementation, since it is
sometimes impossible to recover valuable information for that purpose after its
completion.
M.    Lessons and Recommendations
25.   The main  lessons  learned from the experience witti this project are
summarized below. Specifically for the Borrower:
(a) To the extent possible, project design should be kept simple, as the
inclusion of multiple components and institutions greatly increases
the risks to the project;
(b) the use of existing institutions however weak (such as SUDENE),
strengthened with a specific well staffed and managed team
(SUDENE/CRA), is preferable to the creation of special new agencies,
which would require a period of adjustment and learning on the job;
(c) project management units should be staffed with an interdisciplinary
team of professionals to cover all fields of project management. In
this case, adequate attention should have been given to the skills
of financial management and technical assistance and training for
municipal staff involved in project implementation and operation and
maintenance;
(d) a system to monitor project implementation (physical, financial and
institutional) should be established, preferably before the project
begins implementation, to allow for adequate management and the
evaluation of project impact;
(e) As an emergency reconstruction effort, this project would have
benefitted from a less complex set of institutional arrangements
than that initially adopted to coordinate the planning and
disbursement of program funds;
(f) the decentralization of implementation responsibilities, coupled
with provision of technical assibtance and training to the
institutions sharing responsibility for project implementation, tend
to decrease the risk caused by the concentration of responsibilities
in one single agency, such as SUDENE/PROENE in this case;
(g) given the insufficient number of qualified staff to implement the
technical assistance and studies component, SUDENE should have
employed consultants to assist in the provision of technical
assistance and to carry out studies on flood risk analysis; and



10
(h) given the periodic occurrence of floods in the Northeast of Brazil,
SUDENE should establish a permanent team to administer, with the
support of state and local authorities, flood plain management
programs for the nine major river basins of the region.
26.   The major lessons learned applicable to the Bank are that:
(a) the implementation of reconstruction/rehabilitation works and the
Bank's monitoring should begin immediately after negotiations;
(b) supervision missions should, insofar as logistically possible, be
planned at flexible intervals according to project needs rather than
to Bank's normal biyearly schedule;
(c) as emergency loans are put together in a great hurry, and hence use
fewer resources than normal projects, the Bank should budget at
least 50Z over the normal 12-15 staff weeks allocated annually for
supervision to finalize many of the details left to be defined
during project implementation;
(d) experienced financial analysts should be included in the Bank
supervision missions to review financial issues on a regular basis
to monitor the impact of high inflation, exchange rate fluctuations
and similar issues, and review overall financial management of
projects.



11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from Portuguese)
Note:  As one of its final tasks, prior to dispersal of key technical staff,
PROENE prepared a Project Completion Report (available on the Project File). For
brFvity only those key points which provide useful additional information to
project background and those in which the Borrower's perception differs from the
Bank's view, are included.
A. Project Design and Organization
1.    Decree No. 91265  (May 25, 1985) stipulated that the Interministerial
Commission and SUDENE were responsible for project supervision, monitoring and
evaluation. For Project implementation, SUDENE formed a special administrative
unit (CRA - Areas Rehabilitation Coordination) within its own organizational
structure which contributed to: 1) design and establishment of overall management
framework; 2) regional coordination and program monitoring; 3) regional
supervision of interventions and program compatibility among state, municipal and
federal proposals; and 4) technical cooperation to civil works contractees and
provision of services to obtain external funding.
2.    In addition to MINTER and SUDENE, management functions were also assigned
to MDU, CNDU, and CEBRAE. DNOCS executed some civil works and building
rehabilitation; DNOS assumed responsibility for supervision of flood protection
works. FSESP was in charge of health facilities reconstruction and CEBRAE was to
arrange credit for micro enterprises t.Irough BNB, the Northeast Development Bank.
SUDENE maintained systematic project control by monthly financial audits and by
on-site inspection by teams of engineers.
3.    Regarding project design and organ:zation, these comments are pertinent:
1) The emergency nature of the project did not allow for accurate identification
of civil works and other interventions to be implemented. For this reason, it is
now clear that the scope and scale of project objectives, components, and the
designation of executing agencies should have been more comprehensive and less
detailed. 2) Notwithstanding this latter observation, we judge that the project
did serve to meet the immediate, flood-related needs of the Northeast which,
until that time, had been more concerned with the effects of drought rather than
flood damage. 3) In the early implementation stage, there was reduced efficiency
in  securing World  Bank  funds  for  conversion  into  local  currency  which,
consequently, limited the types and scale of interventions. This situation was
due  to:  a)  inadequate  and imprecise definition of responsibilities  among
participating Brazilian agencies; and b) lack of prior analysis to clearly
determine the specific functions and organizational capacity of each agency.
B. Project Implementation
4.    Discrepancies between project design and implementation were not considered
critical. SUDENE detected unforeseen real needs and submitted findings to Bank
staff for team discussions and corrective measures which assured more efficient
and beneficial interventions. By these adjustments critical problems were avoided
principally those related to disbursement of World Bank funds. The fact that the
financial goals of the loan agreement were achieved and that more interventions



12
were carried out than initially planned, attest to the notable efficiency of
SUDENE and Bank staff to make appropriate course adjustments.
C. Project Results
5.    Overall Project objectives suffered no alteration. However, adjustments at
the final design and operational stages were required to assure Project
feasibility. Results included the following: 1) Project impacts reached 784
municipalities; 2) large number of completed civil works in affected areas during
the rehabilitation phase benefiting an estimated 990,000 people; 3) hundreds of
medium and large scale interventions assured flood protection for an estimated
6 million people; 4) in fact, due to civil works constructed as a result of this
Project, no new flooding occurred during the violent storms of 1988 and 1989.
6.    Flood prevention studies  produced:  1) an appropriate methodology to
identify social and economic priority areas along with technical justification
for the implementation of civil works for flood prevention; 2) mapping of areas
flooded in 1985 in seven of ten selected river basins; and 3) completion of
various studies of the Parnaiba River basin and of intermediate stages of Apodi
and Piranhas basin studies.
D. Project Sustainability
7.    The useful life of civil works financed by the project varies considerably
depending on maintenance. Large scale construction of dikes and drainage canals
can reach a useful life of 50 years. On the other hand, river dredging operations
and pavement reconstruction are required when new flooding occurs.
E. Bank Performance
8.    The Bank staff's technical experience especially during supervision was a
decisive factor in detailing the limits which project objectives could expect to
achieve. However, project design efforts produced some bottlenecks regarding
institutional arrangements and interventions to be financed. Critical stages were
not reached due, mainly, to the awareness and technical knowledge of members of
Bank staff supervisory missions. They not only understood justifications
presented by the SUDENE team but also demonstrated their capacity to articulate
within the Bank the nature of problems encountered and of proposed solutions.
F. SUDENE Performance
9.    SUDENE'S  technical  team  and  organization proved  their  planning  and
supervisory capability to achieve Project objectives. SUDENE staff experience and
detailed knowledge of the Northeast region's physical characteristics and its
social and economic problems greatly contributed to providing solutions and to
maintaining technical and political dialogue with representatives of State and
municipal governments. The elaboration of an appropriate methodology for flood
prevention studies generated knowledge required for decision-makers. Seven
flooded river basins have been mapped and social and economic studies are well
advanced in two areas - components for the elaboration of an integrated flood
prevention plan for a major portion of the Northeast region.



13
G. Project Relationship
10.   The technical competence and mqturity of Bank and SUDENE staff members
generated discussions of the highest level. As a result, appropriate decisions
were taken to address problems caused by flooding, based on criteria to achieve
the highest social benefits at the lowest possible economic costs for the
preventive and rehabilitative interventions proposed.
H. Consulting Services
11.   SUDENE decided that consultants would be hired only for the interventions
requiring final designs. As a result, budgeting provided funds only for
consultants involved in large scale civil works implemented by large construction
firms. SUDENE advised the municipal and State governments to engage their own
technical teams to exescute smaller scale works such as the construction of
drainage networks, houAing rphabilitation, and street paving. For large scale
civil works carried out by competent and administratively well organized
construction firms, State and municipal authorities were generally more agile in
securing Bank funds for implementation. By contrast, municipalities responsible
for small scale interventions required SUDENE mediation for fund allocation.
I. Project Documentation and Data
12.   Bank evaluation reports, electronically processed data, field reports by
SUDENE staff and by other participating agencies provided complete Project
documentation relative to interventions in the region, implemented by 136
agencies including 119 municipal, 9 State, and 8 federal authorities.
J. Regional Economic Impacts
13.   According to estimates prepared by SUDENE/CRA, the US$270 million Project
expenditures generated a financial impact of US$2.7 billion. In the Parnaiba
River basin floods caused US$22.8 million in damages affecting 54,000 people, or
losses of US$422.20 per person. Considering that approximately 6 million people
will have benefitted from Project interventions, it is estimated that assets in
buildings and equipment worth US$2.53 billion will be protected. In other words,
US$25 worth of property is safeguarded for every dollar lent by the Bank. Project
investments are also calculated to represent 7.8Z of the Gross Internal Product
of the flooded and protected areas.



14
PART ill - STATISTICAL INFORHATION
1.   RELATED BANK LOANS
Title              Purpose            Year of Approval         Status Comments
1720-BR     Infrastructure,    1979    Closed            $70 million loan effec-
e m p 1 o y m e n t            Dec 86       tive Feb 80. Infrastruc-
creation    and                             ture investments quickly
institutional                               implemented followed by
development                                 key institutional deve-
investments    in                           lopment in some munici-
medium-si z e d                             palities.      Employment
cities in Brazil.                           creation components'per-
formance disappointing.
2170-BR     T o    d e v e 1 o p            C lo se d   $123.9 million loan ef-
Metropolitan                   Dec 89       fective   November   82.
Region  of  Recife                          Complex    multisectoral
through    invest-                          operation  carried  out
ments   in  infra-                          during a period of rapid
structure    and                            change   in   political,
urban services and                          economic    and   social
inst itutional                              change. Im- plementation
development.                                held up through lack of
counter- part funds. PCR
issued Dec. 1990.
2193-BR     Engineering   loan   1982    Closed          $8.9 million loan effec-
for preparation of             June 85      tive Dec 82. Good pro-
follow-on metropo-                          gress in Salvador where
litan  development                          a  metropolitan  project
projects in Forta-                          (Ln 2681-BR) was prepar-
leza and Salvador.                          ed. Lack of state coun-
terpart funds hindered
work in Fortaleza where
a  follow-on  operation
was not implemented.
2343-BR     T o    a s 9 i s t   1983    Closed          $52.7    million    loan
municipalities  in             Dec 88       effective   March   84.
State of Paran6 to                          Good progress was made
implement    local                          early on with physical
infrastructure                              wo rk 9,    although
investments    and                          i n s t i t u t i o n a 1 ,
strengthen   their                          especially    financial
administrations.                            development    o f
municipalities    only
picked    in   project's
final years.



15
2623-BR      T o    t m p r o v e    1986    Ongoing      $24.5    million    ioan
institutional                                effective    Sep    86.
development    of                            Expected  closing  date
small  to  medium-                           Der.  92.   First   urban
s   i   z   e   d                            project  in Brazil with
municipalities  in                           state    as    borrower.
State   of   Santa                           Linking    finance    for
Catarina,  through                           infrastructure   invest-
conditioning                                 ments with demonstrated
financing    of                              improvements    in
infrastructure                               municipal administration
u     p     o     n                          proved  hard  to  start
administrative                               with,   but   is   taking
improvements.                                hold.
2681-BR     T o    d e v e 1 o p    1986    Ongoing       $55  million  loan  ef-
metropolitan  area                           fective May 87. Expected
o f    Salvador                              closing  date  Dec  94.
t h  r o  u g  h                             follow-on  project  from
investments    in                            Ln2l7O-BR  with  greater
infrastructure and                           emphasis upon financial
urban services and                           viability. Early implem-
inst itutional                               entation held up through
development.                                 lack   of   counterpart
funds.    Greater  state
responsibility, has im-
proved execution.
2975-BR     To carry out emer-    1988    Ongoing         $175 million loan effec-
gency  reconstruc-                           tive  Dec  88.  Expected
tion  for  floods,                           closing  date March  92.
and implement pre-                           Project   is  proceeding
ventive    civil                             well  after  substantial
works  and  insti-                           delays by the Caixa Eco-
tutional   changes                           Economica Federal  (CEF)
in the Metropoli-                            (co-fiancier) in releas-
tan Region of Rio                            ing  counterpart   funds
de Janeiro.                                  and because institution-
al weakness within CEF.
3100-BR      To strengthen the    1989    Ongoing         $100    million    loan
m a n a g e m e n t                          effective    Jan    90.
capabilities   for                           Expected  closing  date
urban  development                           Dec  94.  Project  is  in
of   the   munici-                           e a rly    s ta ge    of
palities   of  the                           establishing  mechanisms
state of Parana.                             for    on-lending    to
municipalities.



16
3129-BR      To strengthen  the    1989       Ongoing       $100    million    loan
m a n a g e m e n t                            effective    Jan    90.
capabilities   for                             Expected   closing   date
urban  development                             Dec  94.  Prcject  is  in
of   the   munici-                             early       stage       of
palities   of  the                             establishing  mechanisms
state    of    Rio                             for    on-lending    to
Grande do Sul.                                municipalities.



17
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                         Date                Date              Date
Planned             Revised          Actual
Identification (a)             --                   --              04/85
Preparation (b)                --                   --              07/85
Pre-appraisal                  --                  --                --
Appraisal                      --                   --              07/85
Loan Negotiations (c)         09/85                 --              11/85
Board Approval                09/85               12/85          12/19/85
Loan Signature                                                   04/24/86
Loan Effectiveness            02/85                 --           09/05/86
Loan Completion (d)        06/30/87              12/31/88       06/30/89



18
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                      1986         1987         1988         1989
Apr:aisal Estimate                    41.0         91.5        100.0          100.0
Actual                                 0.0         20.6         91.9           97.7
Actual as Z Estimate                  0           22.5Z        91.9Z          97.7Z
Comments:
- Last Disbursement Date: 07/27/89 on which a total cumulative disbursement
of US$98.62 was reached. The Loan was cancelled 7/27/89.
B. Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules
DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
Ito                                  .                                  _
100
90                    .
230 _           
r:  70
50
3 0
20
I40
30
1986               1987                1985               1959
Fiscal Year
0  Appmraal   +  Actual



19
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                   Units  Appraised   Actual l/
1. Shelter
1.1   Dwellings rehabilitation and
reconstruction                           Units   113,000          46,512
1.2   Dwellings relocation                     Units      4,000           N.A.
2. Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure
2.1   Reconstruction of water supply
systems for municipalities               Units         150            99
2.2   Repair and partial reconstruction of
streets and local storm drainage          Km.          295
a) regraveling                            m3                  2,940,054
b) state and municipal highways
system                                Km.                      6,885
c) streets' pavement                      m2                  3,413,880
2.3   Flood protection works for               Units          25
municipalities                            Km.           70
a) rehabilitation of wells              Units                        750
b) rehabilitation of dr3nking pools    Units                       2,554
c) construction of dikes for Teresina  Km.                           5.5
d) Construction of dikes                m3                         2,659
e) construction of piers                m2                         6,309
2.4   Storm drainage works                     Units         .85
a) construction of pipe culvert         m          124,612       108,103
b) works of canals                      m           24,953        22,803
3.    Repair and Reconstruction of
Community Facilities and Public
Buildings
3.1   Municipal buildings; primary schools
and health posts; markets, communal
buildings and facilities                 Units        N.A.            99
4.    Micro Enterprise Credits
4.1   Industrial and commercial micro
enterprises damaged by the floods       Units  _       _    Eliminated
1/ Source: SUDENE/CRA



20
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs (in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Item                         Local Foreign Total         Local Foreign  Total
Costs Exchange             Costs Exchange   b/
Costs                      Costs a/
A. Shelter                      36.6   17.2   53.8           4.86   5.34    9.70
B. Urban Infrastructure         76.7   40.4  117.1         56.43  85.41  141.84
C. Community Facilities         18.0    8.5   26.5           6.40   7.84   14.24
D. Micro Enterprise Credits    9.0    1.0   10.0             --     --       --
E. T.A. & Studies                1.1    0.1    1.2           0.00   0.03    0.03
TOTAL                          141.4   67.2  208.6         67.19  98.62  165.81
Comments:
a/ These figures represent actual Bank disbursements for components.
b/ Total project costs were reduced as a consequence of Bank's
increased participation, from original 552 to 752.



21
B. Proiect Financing
Planned                    Final
Source                Loan Agreement
USS million    z          US$ million    %
IBRD                    100.0      48              98.62      59
Federal Government       99.9      48              53.75      32
State Governments         8.2       4              13.44       9
UNDP                      0.5       0               (a)
TOTAL                   208.6    100              165.81    100
Comments:
- UNDP funds were never made available to the technical assistance and
studies subproject as was anticipated during project design.



22
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                      Appraisal          Actual on
Estimate          Closing Date
No. of Families Benefited by Emergency Aid           --              990,000
No. of Persons Benefited by Major Dike Systems    --                 210,000
No. of Families Benefited by Housing Rehabilitation                   47,100
No. of Persons Directly Benefited by Project       650,000
Total No. of Persons Benefited (directly and indirectly)          6,000,000
No. of Municipalities benefitted (directly and indirectly)               784
Source: SUDENE/CRA
B.   Economic Impact
No economic rates of return were used in this project.
C.   Financial Impact
The direct impact provided by the funds allocated to the projects benefitted
people by an equivalent of US$45 per capita. With a regional multiplier of one
to ten, the US$270 million expenditures had a financial impact of US$12.7
billion. Equally important is the relationship of the US$100 million of Bank
Loan to project a total asset in buildings and equipment of US$2.5 billion. This
gives a ratio of one to twenty five (1:25). (Source: SUDENE/CRA).



23
D. Studies
Studies                Purpose as Defined             Status       Impact of
at Appraisal                                Study
1. Flood Risks          a) assessment of the flood   Completed
risks  in  the  nine  major   only  for
river basins using remote   t   h   e
sensing and technicAl ground   P a r a n a
survey;                        River for
sections
with the
greatest
f I o o d
risk
2. Flood management    b)   develop  flood  plain   F 1 o o d   Served    as
and zoning plans    management plans with the   areas  of   development
overall framework and land   A p o d i ,   guidelines.
use  zoning  plans  for  25   Jaguaribe
municipalities.                Mearim,
Paranaiba
Pindare,
Piranhas
and   Sao
Francisco
r i v e r
b a s i n s
w e r e
mapped.
3. Project Ecomic       c)  study to evaluate  the
Impact               economic   impact  of  the
project.
Since basically the main focus was on physical components, there was little time
available for technical assistance and studies.  Additionally, lack of local
support and appropriate technology, as well as the institutional disorganization
hampered the implementation of the studies.



24
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant          Subject                            Deadline       Status
Loan Agreement                                       for Compliance
Maintain in BNB, until the
3.05 (i)            Closing Date,  an  account  in        --            1
Cruzados
3.05 (ii)           Payments out of such account to       --            1
meet   expenditures   of   the
project, exclusively
3.05(iii)           (A)   amounts   withdrawn   by        --            1
borrower   --on   account   of
payments made in Cruzados
4.01(b) (i)         Have its accounts, records and        --            1
financial statements for each
fiscal    year    audited    in
accordance  with  appropriate
auditing principles
4.01(b) (ii)        Furnish to the Bank, no later         --            1
than 5 months after end of
year: (A) certified copies of
its accounts; (B) audit by said
auditors
4.01(b) (iii)       Furnish to the Bank such other        --            1
information   concerning   the
accounts.
4.01(c) (i)         Maintain separate records and         --            1
accounts for withdrawls from
the Loan Account
4.01(c) (ii)        Retain, until at least one year       --            1
after the Bank has received the
audit, copies of all records
for the Loan Account
4.01(c) (iii)       E n a b 1 e    t h e    B ank'        --I
representation to examine such
records
4.01(c) (iv)        Ensure   that   such   separate       -             1
accounts are included in annual
audit
4.02(i)             The Borrower shall have Special       --            1
Account for each fiscal year
audited



25
4.02(ii)            The Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case later than six
months after the end of each
year, a certified copy of the
audit report
4.02(iii)           The Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank monthly certified
statements   of  the   Special
Account
Rating:
1   Full Compliance
2 - Partial Compliance
3 - Non Compliance
Remarks:



26
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (st&ff weeks)
Stage of              Planned            Final              Comments
Project Cycle
Through Appraisal                      26.6
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval                          2.2
through Effectiveness
Supervision                             5.4
TOTAL                                 34.2
Note: These records do not appear to be totally accurate or realistic, but are
noted as recorded in the MIS.



27
B. Missions
Stage of     Month/  No. of  Days in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Project Cycle   Year   Persons  Field    Represented!    Rating!   Problemss
Through            04185   4        12      AR,ENG,EC          1            AF
Appraisal          07/85   5        17      UPL,EC,ARPL        1            MA
Board Approval    07/86   1          8      ARPL               1            AF
through            12/86   1         3      ENG                1            MA
Effectiveness
Supervision        05/87   1         7      ARPL               1            MA
10-11/87   2         6      ARPL,FA            3            AF
10/88   3         4      ARPL,FA,AR         1           MA
1  AR = Architect;  EG - Engineer;  EC - Economist;
FA = Financial Analyst; PO - Project Officer;
ARPL - Architect Planner
2  1 . problem free or minor problems
2 = moderate problems
3 - major problems
3  MA - project management
AF - availability of funds
DI - development impact



