Document of
The World Bank
FOR O CFICL USE ONLY
k gt. SGY--B
Rqrt No. P-4160-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO UStiO0.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 25, 1985
TII  dwoumeut hs a reucted dLutkI  mi Way be ied by rldpleu  omlY in the pef dmm  of
I  their sfflddgm lb eumte  ar notherwie be dldused witho Wend Bank



US$ 1   Cr$6,970    (August 30, 1985)
Cr$ 1 = US$0.00014 (August 30, 1985)
Government of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNB       Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Bank for Economic and Social Development
BNH       Banco Nacional de Habitacao
National Housing Bank
CEAG      Centro de Assistencia Gerencial
Management Assistance Center
CEBRAE    Centro Brasileiro de Ap6io a Pequena e Media Empresas
Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small & Medium Enterprises
COHAB     Companhia de Habitacao (Estadual)
State Low-Cost Housing Company
CNDU      Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
National Urban Development Council
DNOC      Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
National Department Against Droughts
DNOS      Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
National Department for Sanitation Works
FSESP     Funda,cao de Servi,os Especiais de Saude Publica
Special Public Health Services Foundation
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
MI-U      Ministerio de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Ambiente
Ministry of Urban Development and Environment
MINTER    Ministerio do Interior
Ministry of Interior
MOR       Secretaria Municipal de Reconstrucao
Municipal Office of Reconstruction
OAS       Organization of American States
PLANASA   Plano Nacional de Saneamento
National Sanitation Plan
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento (Federal)
Ministry of Planning
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento (Estadual)
State Secretariat of Planning
SUDENE    Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento do Nordesre
Superintendency for Development of the Northeast
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower   :  Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount         US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would seek to assist the physical and
economic rehabilitation of flood-damaged urban
municipalities in the Northeast region, and to strengthen
the planning capacity at the regional, state and municipal
levels for flood protection and control. It would comprise
priority elements of the Government's flood reconstruction
program and would include: (a) rehabilitation and
reconstruction of shelter; (b) rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure; (c) repair and reconstruction of community
facilities and public buildings; (d) provision of financial
and technical assistance to micro enterprises; and (e)
provision of technical assistance to municipalities in the
planning and management of reconstruction actIvities and to
federal, regional and municipal agencies in flood risk
assessment and management.
Risks          The proposed project would involve a large number of
individual reconstruction activities which would have to be
carried out simultaneously in as many as 160 municipalities
in the nine Northeast States. Furthermore, because of the
urgency of the project, the level of preparation of some of
the proposed activities could be insufficient. The risk of
deiay in project execution that these factors imply would be
reduced by decentralizing project implementation to the
local level to the maximum extent feasible; relying
primarily on existing institutions of proven capacity; and,
providing municipalities with technical assistance as
required. The streamlined coordination arrangements which
have been specifically established to expedite the
Government's flood reconstruction program would also help to
minimize the risk of delay. Some delay might also occur if
local counterpart funds are not provided on a timely basis.
However, the high priority being given by the Government to
flood reconstruction in the Northeast and the simplified
funding arrangements under the project would keep this risk
of delay to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                                   US$ Million
Costs                                                Local   Foreign   Total
Shelter                               32.7   15.4        48.1
Urban Infrastructure                  66.9   35.2        102.1
Conmunity Facilities                  16.2    7.6        23.8
Micro Enterprise Credits               9.0    1.0        10.0
Technical Assistance & Studies         1.1    0.1          1.2
Base Cost                          125.9   59.3       185.2
Physical Contingencies            13.9    6.5        20.4
Price Contingencies                -      3.0         3.0
Total Project Cost                 139.8   68.8      208.6a1
Financing                                                  US$ Million
Plan                                                Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                 31.3    68.7      100.0
Federal Goverment                    99.9      -        99.9
State Governments                     8.2     -          8.2
UNDP b/                               0.4      0.1       0.5
139.8    68.8      208.6
Estimated Disbursements:        -------US$ Million
Bank FY                         1986           1987          1988
Annual                          41.0           50.5           8.5
Cumulative                      41.0           91.5         100.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
a/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$9.6 million.
b/ UNDP has offered to finance part of the technical assistance and
studies subproject.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$100.0
million to help finance a Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction Project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum- (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. The main economic
priorities of the Figueiredo Administration included the growth of
agriculture, the expansion of manufactured exports and reduced dependence
on imported oil, and at the same time an improvement in the situation and
prospects of the most economically disadvantaged people and regions,
especially in the Northeast. The prime political concern during this
period was the return to a fully democratic system of government. Much of
the Government's attention, after 1980, had to be diverted from longer-term
political and economic change because of the stabilization problems
confronting Brazil. In spite of the aconomic recession and consequent
social pressures, however, substantial progress has been made towards the
structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Dr. Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office
presented a crisis for the new Government. With the death of Dr. Neves in
late April, Vice-President Jose Sarney became President and now faces the
tasks of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Neves and attaining broad
popular support. The new Government has indicated that its primary
economic goal will be to restore the country's economic growth in order to
expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the labor
force, improve social services, and bring about a more equitable
distribution of income. The Government also recognizes that for this
1/ Part I of this report is similar to that of the President's Report on
the Santa Catarina Small Towns Improvement Project (Report No.
P-4144-BR dated August 29, 1985).



- 2 --
growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to control inflation, put the
finances of the public sector on a sound footing, and overcome constraints
on growth imposed by the balance of payments.
Poverty Alleviation
5.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Govermment over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have b&en strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and health services for the poor have been upgraded and
expanded. Increased government efforts have also been directed to low-cost
housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water and
sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these and other programs,
there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the 1980
demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare improvements
during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains were realized by
all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as reflected by improved
access to public services, declining infant mortality, and increased
durable consumer goods possession by households, also attest to significant
poverty reduction during the decade. Given the impact of recent economic
difficulties on output and employment, however, some of these gains may
have been seriously eroded. One of the first actions of the new Government
was to introduce a priority program for the social sectors for 1985, with
increased provisions for nutrition, health, housing, school improvement and
water supply programs, assistance for small farmers, employment creation
and special assistance for the Northeast.
Recent Economic Performance
6.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 72, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous  credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.



- 3 -
7.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and the international debt crisis
of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the reluctance of
foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new credits, and bleak
international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance from the
International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjustment
program. In February 1983 the INF pledged financial assistance of the
order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the Extended
Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were commercial
bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling
of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other measures of
financial support.  A similar agreement for 1984 provided, inter alia, the
rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and the commitment of
US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
8.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and exterral borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro,
which is pegged to the US dollar, was devalued by 30X in February 1983 and
subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation. Import restrictions
were increased, and tight fiscal and monetary restraints were imposed.
Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and exports increased by 8.5% in spite of
adverse trading circumstances, resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5
billion and a reduction in the current accout t deficit from US$14.8 billion
in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to US$6.2 billion.
9.        In 1984, these trends continued, with the complete elimination of
the current account deficit in the balance of payments. Accordingly, in a
period of two years Brazil achieved an external adjustment equivalent to
over 5% of GDP. An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was
generated. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall,
much of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current
US dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the
favorable trade performance, and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's
international reserve position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net
increase of over US$7 billion.
10.       At the same time, the major source of internal disequilibrium,
the public sector deficit, was also brought under better control. Central
Bank figures show that the consolidated, operational public sector deficit
was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to 2.5% in 1983; a small surplus was
planned for 1984, but recent information indicates that a significant
deficit remains. Steps were taken, however, to reduce product and interest
rate subsidies and, adjust relative prices for fuel and other publicly
administered products. Although inflation continued high, substantial
progress was made towards establishing a new basis for growth.



- 4 -
11.       The short-run costs of adjustment have been high.  Inflation
reached 211X in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages, increases
in administered prices, very high real interest rates, and the effects of
devaluation. GDP fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions
concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors. All together, per
capita GDP declined by over 12% during 1981-83. For that period industrial
employment fell by over 20%, with the largest reductions in incomes and
employment concentrated in the main industrial centers.
12.      Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, however, which can be expected to continue until there is some
relaxation in the present austere demand management policies. In
particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized until real
interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
13.      Building upon the favorable 1984 results, Brazil's overall
external economic prospects continue to be positive for 1985 and 1986.
The international reserve situation is the strongest in many years, with
the Central Bank's cash position currently reported to be more than US$8
billion. Such reserve levels would allow for considerable contingencies in
the balance of payments for 1985 and beyond. In addition, as compared with
1984, some aspects of the international economic situation appear
encouraging; both international iiterest rates and oil prices have
declined. A change of 1% in the average interest rate paid by Brazil means
a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million. Similarly, a
dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has an impact of
about US$250 million on the trade balance.
14.       Exports in the first quarter of 1985, were 12% lower than in the
same period of 1984, and were subsequently affected by industrial
stoppages, mainly in Sao Paulo. A recovery has since occurred and by June
1985 a trade surplus of US$5.5 billion had been achieved, although with
both exports and imports slightly down from the first half of 1984.
Current Government estimates are for total 1985 exports of nearly US$26
billion and a trade surplus of US$12 billion, with non-oil imports
increasing but imports of oil declining further.
15.       In spite of the improved production performance in 1984, domestic
economic prospects are clouded by inflation, which remains a critical
issue, and reducing it under the current system of indexation and in the
context of very resilient inflationary expectations has proven to be
exceedingly difficult. Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce
inflation, does mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects
commonly associated with it. A major challenge for the new Government sill



- 5 -
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To accot.l.-ish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible short-term economic
program will be essential. This will have to include, inter alia, a
substantial reduction of the public sector deficit.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, albeit dependent on the economic policies pursued by the
Government as well as a number of external economic factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy-makers. The levels of international interest
rates and of oil prices, growth in the OECD, the avoidance of additional
trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the availability of modest net
amounts of external financing, are all critical for Brazil. The
medium-term strategy is expected to focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, reduced inflation, increased investment and
savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
17.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive wi .h the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. Total medium- and long-terzn debt is projected to grow in nominal
terms more slowly than the projected -ate of international inflation.
Gross disbursements are projected to rise from US$14.8 billion in 1985 to
about US$20 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$11 billion to about
US$15 billion in the same period, with net disbursements averaging
approximately US$4.5 billion. The projections are consistent with
reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced
share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending portfolios.
Nevertheless, moderate amounts of new lending are expected to be required
after 1985.
18.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. With the base case projections,
interest payments would fall from 37% of exports in 1984 to about 21% in
1990. The total debt service ratio is projected to fall from 72% in 1984
to about 48% in 1990.  These projections assume that debt repayments due
during the next five years will be either rescheduled or compensated by
equivalent new loans, included in the gross capital inflows referred to in
paragraph 17.
19.       GDP is expected to show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, the
growth rate accelerating from 4% in 1985 to over 7% in 1990. Throughout
the 1984-90 period an average increase in real per capita consumption of
near 3.5% annually is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1988 that
the 1980 level of per capita income would be restored. Alternative
balance-of-payments projections, including a scenario with interrupted OECD



recovery and continued high international interest rates, indicates that,
even if international trade conditions are less favorable, and the net
capital inflow substantially smaller than assumed in the above projections,
Brazil should still be able to achieve equilibrium in its external
accounts, while maintaining positive economic growth rates, albeit lower
than would be required to obtain a sizeable reduction of unemployment
levels.
20.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international conditions. Nevertheless,
some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of Brazilian development
strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon the country's success
in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness of the external
constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period 1984-90 will be mo-e
modest than during the 1970s. Thus, policies impacting on the growth of
employment opportunities will be a particular concern. Third, to sustain
that more modest rate of output growth will require both a continued net
inflow of external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly
improved savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the
clear difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has
the economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out
of the present liquidity situation &nd resume a satisfactory rate of growth
whiLe continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil is
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes
indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1985 the Bank had made 144 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,124.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and US$1,054.5 million
in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1985 was US$4,278.9
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million have been approved for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project, two loans totalling
US$122.7 million for rural development projects in the Northeast of Brazil,
a US$16.3 million loan for a technical assistance and pilot rural water
supply and sanitation project, US$200.0 million loan for a railway project,



two loans totalling US$712.0 million for a power transmission project and a
power distribution project and a US$100.0 million loan for a land tenure
improvement project in the Northeast. Thus far in FY86 one loan for a
small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million has been
approved. Work is advanced for a third and fourth rural development
project in the Northeast, a second alcohol development project, a second
agriculture sector project, a second agricultural extension project, an
agricultural credit project, an irrigation development project, an
irrigation engineering project, a metropolitan urban development project in
the Northeast, a second export development project, and a public sector
management project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$80 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.6% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.2%.
24.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,032.95 million, of which US$685.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$347.22 million, US$262.07 million
represent loans and US$85.15 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, were
reflected in our operations. This included working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of costs of
recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental financing
amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and rural
development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. These higher rates have been continued in
selected cases, to March 31, or June 30, 1986. Also, greater use is being
made of Project Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in
advance in order to reduce the need for the Government to prefinance the
Bank's share of project costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds
to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.



-8-
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding exclort capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exoFange conszraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to liternational c-3mpetition. Several loans to BNDES aimed
atstrengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and two loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, a loan for medium-sized cities, and two loans for small market
towns, are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition
research and development project and a first health project for the
Northwest region, a basic health care project in the state of Sao Paulo and
a national health studies project are helping promote efficiency, cost
effectiveness and equity in the delivery of health services in Brazil.
Several projects for rural and urban development, for health and for rural
water supply and sanitation, directed to the needs of the lowest income
groups in the Northeast are under preparation. The proposed project, which
would be part of the Govermment's flood rehabilitation efforts in the
Northeast, will have a special focus on the needs of low-income families
and small enterprises in seriously damaged urban areas.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. This



would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been
provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing operations for
about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private financial
institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather limited in Brazil for
the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing
available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the debt
rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in the near
future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - BACKGROUND
The Nortneast Region
31.       The Northeast region covers 1.5 million square kilometers or 18Z
of the country's total area, and is the second most populous in Brazil with
35 million inhabitants in 1980.  The region comprises nine States as well
as the northerm portion of the State of Minas Gerais and the small Federal
island of Fernando de Noronha.2/ Although the Northeast is less urbanized
than the more industrially developed regions in southern Brazil, half of
its population lives in urban areas including three of Brazil's large
cities: Recife (pop. 2.2 million), Salvador (pop. 1.8 million) and
Fortaleza (pop. 1.5 million). The Northeast has been viewed as the
country's foremost problem region since the late 1800's. The country's
wealthiest region during the colonial period, it subsequently lagged behind
as industrial, agricultural and commercial activity shifted to the south.
In 1980, the Northeast had a per capita income equal to only 41% of the
national average. Infant mortality rates in the Northeast are 32% above
the national average and life expectancy at birth is 13 years less than
that in the Southeast region of Brazil.
32.       Fiscal incentives and subsidies for private sector investment
through the Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), and Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico Social (BNDES), have helped to establish moderm industries in the
region and revitalize traditional ones. In 1980, manufacturing accounted
for 17% of regional GDP (as against 14% in 1970) and employed 8% of the
labor force. The continuing predominance of subsistence agriculture in the
2/ Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Peraambuco,
Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia.



- 10 -
region's rural areas hit by five successive years of major drought
(1978-83) has, however, partially offset the positive developmental impact
of industrial development in the region.
33.       Industrial and service sector development has also helped
to consolidate the urban centers of the region. Their wide dispersal
throughout the region affords access to essential processing, storage and
markets for agricultural produce and services to the primary sector. The
region's urban areas serve as important ports for Brazil's foreign trade.
It is estimated that, ir. 1983, the Northeast was responsible for a quarter
of the natioa's foreign trade surplus and had also provided positive
balances in previous years when national figures had shown annual
deficits. The Northeast can be expected to play an even more important
role in contributing to the restoration of Brazil's external balance.
The Flood
34.       The Northeast region is composed of a narrow alluvial coastal
plain extending 2,400 km with the traditional cultivation of sugar cane and
cotton for export through the ports of Recife and Fortaleza. The semi-
arid lands which extend 600 to 800 km to the interior have been plagued by
periodic droughts, which have forced a large emigration of the rural
population. Eight major rivers flow across the region to the east and form
the networks on which the urban settlements have developed; however, their
historic records show periodic floods. The risk of flooding has been
substantially reduced, and in some instances eliminated, in the areas of
influence of major hydroelectric, irrigation and flood control darms.
Nevertheless, with the increase in migration to urban centers, squatters
have settled during the last decade in make-shift dwellings on flood plains
to be close to scarce water resources. The vulnerability of large areas in
the region to flooding was further increased as reductions in municipal
revenues due to the drought forced severe cutbacks in road maintenance and
flood protection works, which had low priority under drought conditions.
35.       During the first three months of 1985, heavy rains seriously
affected an area of 322,000 km2 - one-third of the territory of the eight
Northeast States (excluding Bahia). In four States (Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte), some areas received three to four times the
average January-April rainfall (see Annex IV, Table 1). Of the 1,386
municipalities in the nine States, one third or 458 municipalities
sustained damages as a result of the rains and the ensuing flood. Of this
number, 414 municipalities have been declared to be in a state of
emergency. More than 5,300 dams and reservoirs of various sizes were
destroyed while transport and communications were seriously disrupted, in
some cases as long as three months. Many towns had to be abandoned while
others were totally cut off from the road network for a month or more.
Over one million persons, mainly in the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara
and Rio Grande do Norte, were forced to flee their dwellings (see Annex IV,
Tables 2). Of this number, approximately 700,000 lived in urban areas.
Much of the economic activity of about 190 cities and towns was paralyzed,



- 11 -
particularly in the low-income neighborhoods (which were also the low-lying
areas). Many industrial, commercial and service establishments suffered
significant losses not only due to stoppage of operations but also to
losses in inventory and damage to machinery, equiDuent and other fixed
capital.   Agricultural output was also sharply reduced.  The worst case
was the State of Maranhao with a loss equivalent to 1.8 million tons - more
than a half of its rice, corn, beans, manioc and cotton crops. The
disruptive nature of the flood was due not only to the high water level
over a wide area, but also to its duration. Since some areas in the
Northeast remained under water for a prolonged period of time -
approximately three months - conditions deteriorated progressively. The
restoration of productive activities and normal living conditions was
blocked in many municipalities until the flood had receded. Based on
incomplete data, the cost of damage to urban infrastructure, community
facilities, shelter and the productive sectors bas been estimated at over
US$950 million. rn addition, over US$10 million has been spent on temporary
shelter, food, medicine and clothing.
Relief and Reconstruction
36.       Emergency relief measures by the Federal Government through its
Federal Civil Defense Program, SUDENE and Red Cross have effectively
provided food, medicines, tents and large canvas shelters. The State and
Municipal authorities successfully rescued families and animals from areas
completely cut off by the flood. The Ministry of Interior (MINTER) through
SUDENE coordinated a working group composed of representatives from the
Ministries of Planning, Agriculture, Transport and Urban Development to
prepare a regional rehabilitation pLvn, based on draft proposals from the
nine States. The plan gives priority to the restoration of essential
services and economic activities, including the repair and/or replacement
of roads, dams, reservoirs, urban infrastructure, shelter and provision of
agricultural credit and seeds. It was the basis for the issuance of
Presidential Decree No. 91.265 of May 24, 1985, which establishes a
Reconstruction Program for the Northeast region.  The total cost of the
program has been estimated at Cr$3 trillion (US$430 million at end-August
1985 exchange rate) for: (a) highways - federal, state and municipal; (b)
urban inf-rastructure including shelter and public buildings; (c) social
infrastructure for education and health; (d) agriculture - seed
distribution and credits; (e) flood protection - dams, barrages and dikes;
and, (f) other measures - including the rehabilitation of industrial,
commercial, services, communication and energy sectors. For 1985, about
Cr$1.3 trillion (US$182 million) has been budgeted, of which Cr$ 490
billion (US$71 million) has been distributed to the States and Federal
agencies. In addition, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has
allocated US$50 million out of existing loans for highway rehabilitation
while the IBRD has transferred from Loan 2062-BR US$60 million for critical
highway and urban reconstruction works.3/
3/ Brazil: Proposed Amendment to Northwest Regional Development Program -
First Phase: Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR), Northeast Flood Emergency
Rehabilitation (R85-204 dated June 14, 1985).



- 12 -
Bank Support
37.       At the request of the Government, a Bank mission visited Brazil
in April 1985 to assess how best to respond to the country's need for flood
reconstruction assistance.  As agreed with the Government, Bank assistance
would be provided in two stages. Under the first stage, US$60 million has
been reallocated from Loan 2062-BR (approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1985) to help finance the most urgent and easily identifiable needs
for rehabilitation of roads (US$35.3 million) and urban infrastructure
(USS24.7 million). This stage is progressing satisfactorily. Between May
and September, 1985, about US$35.4 million, including about US$22.3 million
which would be reimbursed from Loan 2062-BR, had been spent on the
rehabilitation of roads and urban imfrastructure. Support under the first
stage for urban reconstruction was limited to the critical rehabilitation
of water supply, drainage, urban streets and flood protection in 22 cities
and towns of five states whirch suffered the most damage.4/ Under the
second stage (the proposed project), Bank assistance for urban
reconstruction would cover a. much broader geographic area, wine States
compared with five under the first stage, and would take a more
comprehensive approach to reconstruction with the inclusion of other
priority activities such as the rehabilitation of shelter and community
facilities, assistance to flood-damaged micro enterprises and technical
assistance and studies (paras. 42-46).
Bank's Experience in Reconstruction
38.       Except for the first stage of Bank support, the Bank has had no
experience to date in providing reconstruction assistance in Brazil.
However, the lessons learned from the Bank's experience elsewhere 5/ have
heen taken into account in the design of the proposed project.  The Bank's
experience indicates that reconstruction projects need to address the
specific nature of the emergency and the cross-sectoral nature of needs;
should not seek to achieve broad structural, institutional or sectoral
goals; should require a minimum of planning and programming; and, should
involve simplified procurement and disbursement procedures.  The proposed
project takes this experience into account by: (a) limiting project
objectives and reconstruction targets; (b) streamlining project design and
administrative procedures; (c) supporting the use of existing institutions
to the maximum extent possible, and, (d) acquiring land needed for shelter
reconstruction in advance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The project was prepared by MINTER and SUDENE, in collaboration
with the National Urban Development Council (CNDU) of the Ministry of Urban
4/ Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, and Paraiba.
5/ In the Latin America and Caribbean region, the Bank has provided
assistance to reconstruction projects in Peru, Nicaragua, Guatemala,
Haiti, Colombia and the DominLican Republic.



- 13 -
Development and Environment (MDU).  Bank staff appraised the project in
July 1985 in collaboration with representatives from MINTER, SUDENE, CNDU
and the Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
(CEBRAE) as well as state and municipal officials. Given the nature of the
project, a staff appraisal report has not been prepared. Negotiations took
place in Washington in November 1985 with a Brazilian negotiating team
headed by Ms. Estael Baltar of the Ministry of Planning.  Supplementary
project data are provided in Annexes III to IX.
Project Objectives and Approach
40.       The project has a two-fold objective:  (a) to assist the physical
and economic rehabilitation of Northeast urban areas damaged by the flood;
and (b) to strengthen the planning capacity at the regional, state and
municipal levels in the Northeast region for flood protection and control.
The first objective would be achieved through the reconstruction of
essential public facilities and services, shelter and the provision of
technical assistance and credit for working and fixed capital purposes to
flood-damaged micro enterprises; the second, through a program of technical
assistance and studies designed to identify flood-prone areas in the
Northeast region and to develop appropriate land-use and zoning plans at
the municipal level. This approach would support a coherent reconstruction
process, provide a foundation for restoring a basic level of economic
activity and help to minimize the potential dangers from future flooding.
The project would be carried out through streamlined institutional
arrangements which are now in place (paras. 47-51). Although the project
by its nature does not aim directly at institutional development as such,
an important by-product would be the strengthening of existing
institutions, especially at the municipal level, through their active
participation in the planning and execution of reconstruction activities as
well as through technical assistance to be provided under the project.
Project Description
4i.       The project would comprise priority elements of the Government's
overall urban reconstruction program (para. 36) and would be implemented,
depending on the subproject, in up to 160 municipalities in the nine
Northeast States. Of the 458 municipalities damaged by the flood, 160
received sufficient damages to justify the preparation of integrated
reconstruction programs. A detailed description of each subproject
follows.
42.       Shelter-Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (Annex V, Table 1).
This subproject would include the rehabilitation of about 63,000 housing
units, the reconstruction "in situ of 50,000 housing units, the relocation
and construction of about 4,000 units in new sites, construction of
low-cost sanitation facilities, and design and supervision. Except for
relocation housing which will be constructed by the State Low-Cost Housing
Companies (COHABs) and housing foundations, rehabilitation and
reconstruction -in situ  housing will be undertaken with self-help labor
under the supervision of municipal authorities. Construction materials



-14 -
would be supplied free to the poorest beneficiaries (86X of the total),
i.e. those earning less than 1 minimum salary per month. Depending on
their income level, the other beneficiaries will be obliged to repay part
of the cost of construction materials (para. 67). The shelter
rehabilitation and reconstruction 'in situ" would be undertaken in about
160 cities and towns in the nine States, with the bulk of the work
concentrated in 60 municipalities in the five States which suffered the
most damage. The relocation housing would be concentrated in seven
States. Low-cost sanitation solutions would be an integral part of the
shelter sub-project since conventional solutions are not affordable by the
affected population. Approval by the State Secretaries of Planning of the
relocation programs and site development plans for groups of 50 houses or
more in the affected municipalities will be a condition of disbursement of
the Bank loan for the relocation component of the shelter subproject in the
respective States. The legal availability of land for relocation housing
will be a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for this project
component - specifically for the States of Paraiba and Rio Grande do Norte.
43.       Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure (Annex V, Table 2).  Urban
infrastructure work will include:  (i) improvement, repair and extension of
water supply and distribution networks and sanitary sewage facilities in
about 150 municipalities, including the reconstruction and cleaning of
about 115 km of water distribution networks, 150 treatment plants and water
pumping stations; (ii) repairs and partial reconstruction in 160
municipalities of approximately 295 km of streets and local storm drainage;
(iii) flood protection works in 25 municipalities including approximately
70 km of dikes, retaining walls, groins, and 15 storm water pumping
stations inside the dikes; (iv) storm drainage works of canals and culverts
to provide positive drainage to the low-lying residential areas in 85
municipalities. This subproject will also include design and supervision
and the acquisition of 60 trucks and miscellaneous vehicles for removal of
debris during reconstruction and for road repair and reconstruction.
44.       Repair and Reconstruction of Community Facilities and Public
Buildings (Annex V, Table 3). Included in this subproject is the repair
and reconstruction in a total of 90 municipalities of: (i) essential
municipal buildings; (ii) primary schools and health posts; and, (iii)
markets, community buildings and facilities. Design and supervision work
is also included.
45.       Micro Enterprise Credits (Annex VI).  Existing official
micro enterprise credit programs for the Northeast region do not have
sufficient resources to meet normal requirements of micro enterprises, much
less their additional needs due to the flood. This subproject would
involve the provision of credit to industrial, commercial and service
micro enterprises in flood-damaged municipalities to help them rebuild
inventories and repair or replace machinery and equipment, buildings and
other civil works. Some 2,000 loans averaging about US$4,520 per loan are
expected to be made based on eligibility criteria, institutional
arrangements and lending procedures similar to those of existing official



- 15 -
micro enterprise credit programs in the Northeast [see Annex VI for
details]. However, given the unusual situation faced by flood-damaged
micro enterprises, and for many of them, the financial burden of servicing
existing liabilities, the credit terms to be offered under this subproject
would temporarily be softer than those of existing micro enterprise credit
programs. The proposed terms under the subproject include 100 percent
financing of investment and a nominal rate of interest of 5 percent per
month, without monetary correction, which implies a substantial credit
subsidy given a much higher expected rate of inflation. As economic
conditions in the affected urban municipalities return to normal, this
credit subsidy would be phased out. Assurances were received from the
Borrower that the credit terms to be offered for new credits extended after
June 30, 1987, [i.e., by the end of the project implementation period],
would be adjusted to the prevailing terms offered by existing micro
enterprise credit programs in the Northeast region. Currently, these
include a nominal interest rate which is close to a positive real interest
rate and a more conservative loan financing limit.
46.       Technical Assistance and Studies (Annex VII).  This subproject
includes: (a) assessment of the risk of flooding in nine major river
basins (drained by the rivers Pindare, Mearin, Itapecuru, Parnaiba, Acarau,
Jaguaribe, Apodi, Piranhas, Paraiba and Sao Francisco) using remote sensing
techniques complemented by ground surveys - requiring 32 m/mo. of
consultant time; (b) development of flood plain management plans within the
framework of overall land use and toning plans for 25 municipalities -
requiring 50 m/mo. of consultants; (c) technical assistance to 60
municipalities in the planning and management of reconstruction activities
- requiring 343 m/mo. of consultants; and (d) a study to evaluate the
economic impact of reconstruction activities - requiring 42 m/mo. of
consultants (see para. 53). This subproject will also include the
acquisition of passenger vehicles and data processing equipment.
Assurances were received from SUDENE that the terms of reference for the
consultants required for components (a), (b) and (c) above will be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to January 31, 1986, and that the
consultants would initiate their work program prior to March 1986. With
respect to component (b) above, assurances were received from SUDENE that
preliminary land-use and zoning plans that would delineate the boundaries
of the unprotected 5-yr flood plain to be preserved as protected open
space, will be formulated by June 1986.
Institutional Arrangements
47.       Project Coordination.  The arrangements for the coordination of
project activities will be based on the institutional framework set up
under Presidential Decree No. 91.265 for the overall Reconstruction
Program, of which the project is a part. Overall coordination and
supervision of project activities will be vested in an Inter-Ministerial
Reconstruction Committee created under the decree. This committee is
chaired by the Secretary General of the HINTER and consists of
representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Urban



- 16 -
Development, Transport, Communications, Industry and Commerce, Mines and
Energy, Health, Education and Agriculture, as well as the Superintendent of
SUDENE (Annex VIII, Chart 1). The day-to-day responsibility for project
coordination, management and supervision will be exercised by MINTER
(through the Office of the Secretary General) at the national level, SUDENE
(through a special Project Unit) at the regional level, the State
Secretariats of Planning (SEPLANs) at the state level and the Municipal
Offices of Reconstruction (HORs) at the municipal level.
48.       The SUDENE Project Unit will consist of a Project Director, three
Senior Advisors, a General Manager and nine area supervisors, or one per
State (Annex VIII, Chart II). The Project Unit will be responsible for:
(a) reviewing final designs submitted to it by the executing agencies; (b)
monitoring project activities; tc) inspecting completed works; (d) liasing
with the states; and (e) ensuring that the states receive the necessary
support from SUDENE's Regional Offiues, SUDENE's technical departments and
other agencies. The Project Unit will receive technical support, as
necessary, from SUDENE's technical departments. Coordination and
monitoring of project implementation will be done by the Project Unit
through SUDENE's Regional Offices. Currently, SUDENE has Regional Offices
in five States (Maranhao, Bahia, Piaui, and Rio Grande do Norte) and its
headquarters are located in Pernambuco. In States where SUDENE does not
have an office (Alagoas, Sergipe and Paraiba), the coordination and
monitoring will be done through services from the Regional Offices, with
logistics support from the BNB, which has branches in every State.
49.       Project coordination and supervision at the state level will be
carried out by the States through their SEPLANs, under individual project
agreements (-convenios") between the States and SUDENE. Approval by SUDENE
and a State of a "convenio" satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition
of disbursement of the Bank loan in that State. The state SEPLANs will:
(a) consolidate the proposals from the municipalities; (b) provide
assistance to the local agencies in the analysis of subprojects and in
execution of works; (c) coordinate and supervise project implementation, in
conjunction with the relevant sectoral agencies; (d) review and approve
final designs, bidding and contracting documents; and (e) authorize payment
to each municipality. All technical assistance for shelter and low-cost
sanitation and for municipal management will also be coordinated by the
state SEPLANs.
50.       At the municipal level, the MOR will be staffed with
professionals (engineers, architects and social workers) who will be
responsible for managing the project, establishing work programs, budgets
and accounts, and supervising work progress and expenditures. The program
of reconstruction works in each municipality will be approved by the
Municipal Cabinet and will become an integral component of the municipal
development program.



- 17 -
51.       Project Execution.  The works under the shelter, urban
infrastructure and community facilities subprojects will be executed
primarily by state and municipal agencies [Annex VIII]. These agencies
will bear the principal responsibility for the deslgn, construction,
contracting and supervision of the works involved. Some of the urban
infrastructure works and building reconstruction will be carried out by the
relevant federal agencies (the National Department Against Droughts (DNOC)
and the National Department for Sanitation Works (DNOS) for flood
protection, and the Special Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP) for
reconstruction of health facilities). The micro enterpri3e credit
subproject will be implemented out jointly by BNB and CEBRAE. Lending
activities will be done through the BNB branches in the States while
technical assistance to the micro enterprises would be provided by CEBRAE
through its state agencies (CEAGs), under arrangements similar to those of
existing programs of technical and financial assistance to micro
enterprises in the Northeast region. It will be a condition of
disbursement of the Bank loan against the micro enterprise subproject that
a "convenio- sdtisfactory to the Bank has been signed by SUDENE with BNB
and CEBRAE.
Implementation Schedule
52.       Given the urgent nature of the reconstruction activities, the
project has been under implementation since the middle of this year.   The
most urgent water supply reconstruction works are expected to be completed
in six months while the most urgent -in-situ' shelter, clinics, schools and
flood protection would be completed in 12 months. The low-cost sanitation
work would be implemented in parallel with housing reconstruction. Street
and storm drainage repairs and reconstruction along with the remaining
civil works would be completed in 18 to 24 months. The total project is
expected to be completed within two years, a period which is sufficient to
execute the most urgent investments to restore basic economic activities.
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       The SEPLAN of each State will prepare monthly physical progress
and financial reports which will be submitted to the SUDENE Regional
Offices. The key indicators in the progress reports will be monitored by
the SUDENE Project Unit. A study to assess the economic impact of
reconstruction activities, focusing particularly on their employment
generation, will be conducted by SUDENE (para. 46). A major objective of
this study will be to explore ways of linking the short-term reconstruction
program with long-term development, and to suggest strategies to avoid a
sharp reduction in employment after reconstruction is completed.
Selection of Works
54.       The lists of works proposed by the States for the shelter, urban
infrastructure and community facilities subprojects have been reviewed
according to the following criteria: (a) reconstruction of assets of



- 18 -
critical necessity in the initial reconstruction period; (b) restoration of
key social and economic activities in the cities and towns affected; (c)
likelihood of efficient implementation and timely disbursement; (d) no
other financing committed; and, (e) confirmation of high priority by the
Government and local authorities. The works which conformed to these
criteria have formed the basis for the project cost estimates presented
below.
Project Costs and Financin'
55.       Total project cost at August 1985 prices is estimated at US$208.6
million, including about US$9.6 million of taxes and duties. The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$68.8 million, or about 33% of total
project cost. Varying rates of physical contingencies have been applied to
the base costs of the different project components depending on their state
of preparation and the corresponding firmness of cost data. These are 15%
for the waxer supply, sewage and flood protection components of the urban
infrastructure subproject and 13% for storm drainage; 10% for the shelter
and community facilities subprojects and the streets component of the urban
structure subproject; and zero for micro enterprise credit and technical
assistance and studies subprojects. The overall average physical
contingencies amount to 11% of total base costs. Price contingencies were
calculated in US dollars at 7% in 1986 and 7% in 1987 only for project's
foreign exchange cost. No price contingencies in dollar terms have been
provided for the project's local costs based on the assumptions that the
exchange rate of the Brazilian cruzeiro would be periodically adjusted in
line with domestic inflation and that the nominal cruzeiro cost of salaries
and other domestic inputs of the project would increase pari passu with
domestic inflation. The overall average price contingencies amount to 1.5%
of total base costs plus physical contingencies.
56.       The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would finance about
50% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. This would cover all
of the foreign exchange component of expenditures (except US$0.1 million of
the technical assistance and studies subproject) and US$31.3 million of
local costs. Additional externai financing is expected from the United
Nations Development Programme to cover US$O.1 million in foreign exchange
and US$0.4 million in local cost of the technical assistance and studies
subproject. The States will provide US$8.2 million in professional
services for the administration and supervision of works. The balance of
local costs would come from Federal Government funds already earmarked for
the Reconstruction Program by Presidential Decree No. 91.265. Federal
Government funds have been programmed as follows: Cr$ 700.0 billion about
(US$100.0 million equivalent at end - August 1985 exchange rate) for
project activities in 1985-87, of which Cr$ 245 billion (US$35.0 million)
has already been disbursed to the States, and Cr$ 455 billion (US$65.0
million) for project activities in 1986 and 1987.



- 19 -
Procurement
57.       The following table summarizes the procurement procedures to be
applied to the various subprojects. The distribution of the amounts
between LCB and other procurement methods could be subject to revision as
the subprojects are implemented.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions) a/
Procurement Method
ICB    LCB   Other    N.A.   Total Cost
Civil works                                76.5   97.5     -        174.0
(39.0) (48.4)             (87.4)
Equipment                                   2.8    0.2     -          3.0
(1.6)  (0.1)              (1.7)
Services                                    -      7.9     13.7 b/  21.6
(5.4)    (--)     (5.4)
Micro Enterprise Credits                    -     10.0      -        10.0
(5.5)             (5.5)
79.3  115.6     13.7    208.6
(40.6)  (9.4)     -      (100.0)
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank. Cost figures shown in this table include contingencies.
b/   Salaries for project administration/supervision by federal agencies,
SUDENE, States and Municipalities.
58.       Civil Works, Equipment and Consulting Services.  Most civil works
contracts will be small in value, below a quarter of a million dollars and
will be spread over 160 cities and towns, making them unsuitable for
international competitive bidding. No single civil works contract is
expected to *xceed US$4 million. Civil works under subprojects (a), (b)
and (c) valued at more than US$100,000 would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures (LCD) acceptable to the Bank. Civil works
valued at less than US$100,000, with an aggregate amount per municipality
not to exceed US$5 million, would be procured through local shopping [with
a minimnm of three quotations] or force account.  Equipment and goods under
subprojects (a), (b) and (c) such as trucks, earthmovers, high capacity
pumps, and miscellaneous vehicles valued at more than US$25,000 would be
procured through LCB. The aggregate value of these equipment and goods



- 20 -
will be limited to US$3 million per municipality. Miscellaneous goods
costing the equivalent of less than US$25,000, with an aggregate amount of
US$1 million per municipality, may be purchased through local shopping
after obtaining a minimum of three quotations. Consultants would be
contracted locally and internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.
59.       Micro Enterprise Credits.  Procurement under the micro enterprise
credit subproject would follow the normal commercial practices of private
sector firms. These procedures, complemented by credit supervision by BNB
and the CEAGs, would help assure that the goods and services under this
subproject are acquired in the most economic and efficient manner.
60.       Contract Review.  The SUDENE Project Unit will exercise the
primary responsiblity for reviewing and approving contracts. For all
contracts with an estimated value of US$2.0 million or more, the Bank would
review and approve standard procurement documents and specifications prior
to bidding, and bid evaluations and award recommendations prior to signing
contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post award
review.
Disbursements
61.       Direct foreign expenditures would be incurred only under the
technical assistance and studies subproject. The proposed Bank loan would
cover 10OZ of these expenditures estimated at about US$0.5 millioc, net of
taxes and duties. Disbursement of the Bank loan at the rate of 55% would
be made against other eligible project costs, net of taxes and duties,
except the salary costs of project administration and supervision which
would be wholly funded by the Federal Government and the States. Loan
disbursements would be against statements of expenditures which would be
audited by MINTER's independent auditors and reviewed by Bank supervision
missions on a sample basis. The closing date of the loan would be December
31, 1987.
62.       As noted above (para. 52), implementation of the project has
already started in earnest given the urgent nature of the reconstruction
activities. Retroactive financing up to 15% of the proposed loan amount
(or US$1j.0 million) would cover eligible expenditures made after July 26,
1985 and before loan signing for housing, other civil works and related
equipment, and for final design and technical assistance. As of September
30, 1985, about US$6.0 million had already been spent under the project on
shelter and about US$4.0 million on urban infrastructure. Total project
expenditure by the end of 1985 is expected to reach about US$28 million.
63.       In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project financing with its own resources, a
Special Account will be established at the Central Bank with an initial
deposit of US$13 million. The Government may request the Bank to make
advance payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special
Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made
at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure. The Central



- 21 -
Bank would send the corresponding Statements of Expenditure to the Bank,
which would then replenish the Special Account.
64.       A Project Account has been established in BNB to receive deposits
of counterpart funds and transfers from the Special Account. This Project
Account will be the source of funds to reimburse project executing
agencies, including the Project Unit, as local expenditures occur - similar
to the arrangement in effect for the Bank-assisted Recife Metropolitan
Region Project. MINTER and SUDENE would be jointly responsible for the
transfer of funds from the Project Account to the States, while SUDENE and
BNB would carry out the financial monitoring of the project, following
criteria and procedures similar to the ones already in use for regular
projects. Assurances were received from the Borrower that the amount of
counterpart funds in the Project Account will be maintained at a level that
would enable all the project's financial requirements to be met in a timely
manner.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
65.       The SUDENE Project Unit would maintain individual accounts which
would record each subproject in the nine States. Annually, the Project
Unit would provide the Bank with accounts and financial statements,
including the opinion of an auditor acceptable to the Bank, not later than
six months after the end of the calendar year. Also, on an annual bas!s,
the Project Unit would supply the Bank with a copy of the audit of the
Special and Project Accounts, including the opinion of the auditor.
66.       Regular reporting of the project progress to be provided to the
Bank by the Project Unit on a quarterly basis would consist of the
following: (a) monitoring tables summarizing key indicators in the
progress reports submitted by the state SEPLANs; (b) disbursement during
the preceding quarter and accumulated for each subproject financed by the
Bank, the Bank participation percentage, amounts financed to date by the
Bank and amounts pending financing and reimbursement by the Bank; {c)
documentation to support disbursement applications attested to by the
executing agency; and (d) a qualitative description of the progress in the
overall reconstruction program and in this project.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
67.       In order to take account of the loss of income and disruption of
economic activities attributed to the flood, the outstanding liabilities
and corresponding debt service on destroyed properties, and the extreme
poverty of the flood victims in the project area, a flexible approach to
cost recovery under the shelter subproject has been adopted. Excluding the
value of self-help labor of about US$23.3 million to be supplied by the
housing beneficiaries themselves, the total cost of the shelter subproject
is estimated at US$53.8 million (Annex V, Table 1), divided into: (a)
US$8.5 million, the cost of contract labor (skilled masons, electricians
and plumbers) to be financed by the housing beneficiaries themselves; (b)



- 22 -
US$6.2 million, the cost of design, administration and supervision to be
provided by state and municipal agencies; and, (c) US$39.1 million,
construction materials credits. No recovery of the cost of design,
administration and supervision is planned. Repayment terms for the
construction materials credits would vary by income group. The poorest
beneficiaries, i.e., those earning less than one minimum salary per month,
will not be obliged to repay the cost of construction materials. These
families account for 86% of the total number of families. Assurances were
received from SUDENE that the cost of construction materials from the other
beneficiaries will be recovered partially. Families with incomes
equivalent to one to three minimum salaries per month (11% of the total
number of families) will be obliged to repay the cost of construction
materials according to terms that would yield cost recovery of construction
materials of about 40%. Families with incomes equivalent to more than
three minimum salaries per month will be expected to repay the cost in
accordance with terms being applied to standard housing projects of the
National Housing Bank (BNH) jointly with COHABs, which would be equivalent
to a cost recovery of construction materials of about 60%. The overall
average rate of cost recovery of construction materials across all income
groups would be about 21%.
68.       Cost recovery under the water supply and sewage component of the
urban infrastructure subproject would be through the tariff normally being
applied by the municipal water companies. These companies are
participating either in the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) or in
programs of the FSESP under which they adhere to common tariff policies
which in general permit adequate cost recovery. The costs of street
drainage, flood protection improvement and community facilities would be
recovered partially through indirect user charges and increased real
property taxes.
Project Justification and Benefits
69.       The benefits of this project are two-fold.  First, through the
reconstruction of shelter, infrastructure and other physical assets and
provision of assistance to productive enterprises, the project would
cortribute to restoring production, employment and incomes in the
flood-damaged municipalities as quickly as possible. In general, over one
million people living in the project area are expected to benefit from the
reconstruction activities, of whom 650,000 would benefit directly. In the
absence of the project, the efficiency of the transport, water supply and
other infrastructure vital to the economic and social life of the affected
municipalities is likely to remain permanently impaired or recover only
slowly, resulting in continuing substantial economic losses. Without
special assistance, small firms would also find it difficult to resume or
normalize their operations. The slow recovery of urban municipalities
would negatively impact on rural areas with which they have close economic
linkages.
70.       The second benefit is indirect.  Under the project,
municipalities and state-level institutions would gain valuable experience
in the planning, management and implementation of reconstruction



- 23 -
activities. This experience, complemented by technical assistance that
municipalities would receive, could be usefully extended to the planning,
management and implementation of development programs.
Risks
71.       The proposed project would involve a large number of individual
reconstruction activities which would have to be carried out simultaneously
in as many as 160 municipalities in the nine Northeast states.
Furthermore, because of the urgency of the project, the level of
preparation of some of the proposed activities could be insufficient. The
risk of delay in project execution that these factors imply would be
reduced by decentralizing project implementation to the local level to the
maximum extent feasible; relying primarily on existing institutions of
proven capacity; and, providing municipalities with technical assistance as
required. The streamlined coordination arrangements which have been
specifically established to expedite the Government's flood reconstruction
program would also help to minimize the risk of delay. Some delay might
also occur if local counterpart funds are not provided on a timely basis.
However, the high priority being given by the Government to flood
reconstruction in the Northeast and the simplified funding arrangements
under the project would keep this risk of delay to a minimum.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, DC
November 25, 1985



AM= I
-24 -                                                      PUg I of 7
U75L                   - sOee    181cn3  DATA IT
UAZL                                _5350  crwn (33031  833383) b
mmi T               CSiT inarr maiuw3lb
L96941-   Ilse A .     UT          L L-  S.OW  Ga  CAR
t_WWAm St. *)
TUTAL                             35L.O       6512.0      6512.0
ACtWILT1ItAL                      1036.0      1961.2      2325.7
W  WI 0*9296 (Cm0)                    3M0.0        00.O      2740.0            215.0                     U345.3
C=T OCOm M1= cmA
(KIL0AM1  OF OIL GUIVALuIW)     265.0        412.0       740.0                .                    112.
LJTUM  A   VWIaL 3t123130
ropuLaTIow.mIo-y13 (TUOUS )    2s9o          95r67.0   12600.0
*  URUP POtiAT10N (I OF TOTAL)         44.9         55.8        66.8             65.5                      00.8
POPULATION eOJICTIONS
FOPULAfTOI FJI    2000   HILL)        U          l1.l
SWATIOHB   PULITTOU (HILL)                               202.0
FOPULATION 16063316L.
POfILATZOU o1231n
FM SQ. M.                          8.3        11.3        14.0              35.79
FM S5q D. A. aol. L4D             0.8         4.4         53.?              92.4                    .58.9
FOftLAT1U Act SUITwcuU  CZ)
1-14 13                          43.0         024        40.9              39.9                     31.0
L5-" YES                          52.6    *    4.2        53.0             5S.0                      GL1L
*5 AM AO                           2.0         3.1        32.                4.1                      7.1
rOPULATol  GrOM  3ATZ (1)
TaAL                                .1          2.$        2.3               2.4                      1.0
U33AM                              5.7         5.0         4.1               3.6                      347
cum  5RI MaT (MR 0601)              *2J          33.0       31.2              3t.3                     2.4
Cll  02AS  UTZ (WI TOMt )           12.9         10.3        5.1               0.1                      8.8
C0303  RWEODOUT   RATE               3.0         2.4         1.9               2.0                      1.
FANILT PLUMrnI
Acmrnoms. AM_AL (t1s3 )             ..        111.0      203..
usas (Z or NAED         )           ..          . o a         ..
POW Am  -mrr
(19-71100)                          89.0       102.0       133.0             114.3                    114.5
MR CALPITA S0711. OF
CALORIES (Z Of E3I3us)          100.0        100.0      107.0             110.6                    123.8
ROTLUS (GUM16 DWA)                04.0        02.0        00.0             07.3           n9.7
or WNICU MD"AL   PoLIK          35.0         30.0       20.0 /d           34.1                     24.5
OP.LD (*as 1-4) 0m Sl               L1.4        12.5         6.0               5.7                      3.2
LIVE 1393r. AT 133T (TUBS)          50.7         8.9        23.8              64 677.A
LrWAIr 10r. AiL (CPU TE)           116.2         s.&        723.4             0.                       54.2
ACSS TO SAIl Vh=  (3105)
TOTAL                               ..          50        77.1               M A5.4
na"                                ..           .0        W.8 7             78.1
Ul                                  M.O2.0                50. 7e-           46.2
ACCESS TO ETYA 01rS5A
(1 OF loWUt.ATion)
TOTAL                               ..         35.0       401/.             32.9
113381                              ..       .85.0        33.7 77           07.0
.013*0.                             ..        20.0        31.7 7            20.5
POPULATION WI 135C1*             221.0        2130.0            l     O    1917.7                    106.66
PM.  3 =ULM 950                   2810.0      12.O            ..              i5m                     7.4
POP. M  NOSPItTAL 38
TOTAL                            310.0       270.0       2500              367.2                     30.3
IIU"                             230.0       320.0          ..             011.5                    201.5
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..            2 .3
AUIISU1015 PHOS2ITAL 3-                         18.4             *      -    27.3                      20.0
333IM
ATU83*   S13Z oF MOUSIUOLO
TOAL                       '       5.1         4.8         0.9 .a
1133A3                              ..         5.0         0.7 a
IsSAL                               ..          5.3        5.3..
ARRALZ 30. 0r FmohsIEOG
TOMAL                               ..          1.1
Una"                                ..         1.0
2.2
ACSS TO ELiT. (3 oF   JIGS)
TOAL                              28.7        47.0        17.4
1Mtn"                              ..        75.0        U.S
ORAL                                ..         3.4        20..



AM= I
- 25 -ePagp 2 of 7
*mnuuu zw= uu ~            ~           ~          ~           (M  =  ol'W
IUCOXUZ  TT             111.0       2.0         :2. Ik4.3                                   594
isIIUtts3*1                       11.0         26.0        2L.0  &[2                                    01.9
13*1                    MO           2.0         35.0  4L     0   ".                         006
V0C!TOh*CS (20  111mM)M              13.5        16.7        "*.2a             33.6                      21.4
PIUSt                             331.0        25.0        26.0 I30.1                                  25.1
530053*5                          13.0         13.0        14.0              1668                      20.3
ADUIT LrnCT lA2R CX)                *1.0          31.2        76.0  .          79.5                      75.
i*iNi C11U/tNOWA   MP                7.4         15.6        44.9              "60                       54.
RAM  UZCVUUIIUSAUII T.              65.4         105.9      155.1             22:L                      164.9
TV UctAOunu   OP                     16.S         44.3       11t.?            107.2                     12.5
UUi5h    ("DUIL! am"L
zzwU        CIKULAT
M      5U   P019*11W              52.           35.6       4.C0 A            6.                        95.3
CDllb AU*L   AIID*NSICIT             4.4           2.0         1.               L 2                       L9
UsF
TOTAL U20  FRCZ C=M)             233260       30*t1.0     4 5.03.
13AiU  MUM)                       17.2         20.1        23.3              252                       39
C CPUSU)              31.9         45.6         25.9             3LS                        07
=INIU  (UNCUM                     14.5         15.3        24.4              23.9                      2.3
PA sZCATM  3*3  (PIKUnI)
TOTL                               3.1          31.7       3L1               322                       42.9
mmY                               52.7          50.3       48.9              49.3                      59.7
r311                              11.2         12.6         145              152                       3.0
scOC 0315D310 3*=                    1.4          1.4    U     .4               L.4                       0.9
T       
vz3 Or nPVAIZ  =MM
I S      OF .o OM                   ..           ..          ..                ..
ItZU   20=       11 O U           5iO.O        63.5        52.0 /L             ..
lAMEST 2o101 w u331                La           3.2         2.5                ..
L SU  40Z  uori1 1                10.5          9.0         9.4                *.
MMDI31  AIOLDS IOU!T MONS
LZNL CUSS 15L CAMA1)
131*3..                                 ..          ..             21.2                         .
A                                   ..           ..        1300 i           15..0
ESUMAMD  mATVZ 10135  DCOMS
LIM3 (USS M5 CAPTA
RUAL                                                       33L        C U L
033*3                      ..           ..       4450 J4           522.8                        .
31*                                 ,.           ..       32.0,             272.4                        .
UTD(IhD   P. 130        O
531*3..                                 ..          ..                ..                        .
39L*                                ..           ..          .....
Nor AVAL.AEZ
MrT APPLICIIL
Lia  *- group aYM     fw web lnllata  .me ipuu2tlma-mm1ghtd wtbc1c _mms. tewerag  of cautie maw the
Inato- dupuda - av.Llahllty of data ad 1eaMt Um!0.
lb   Unless atbaruLm socm. "Dta for 1960 ref r to my ym.r bwum  19_9 _md 1961; "'D    for 1970"  e            19.9 old
1971; ad 4ata far 'Met taen? Zlcinme betmi 1950 ad 192.
c   1375.; .7 1977: l.          1.9t .#,U79:   Usjgne 1973 p*   ery md secandm: oducatAm cer ap amaup. 7-14 ad 15-17
tum e f at 7-10 mm     T     w       yeareg tubmem .   mor t Utmmtae a   tro coopzab1e w_ b marlS   data;
Ah 1372.
J1.   194



-26 -                                           ANhMC I
.                                                                           Palp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     3 of 7
DWDIUI1OSO  SOCIL :YUA1
Ne.m-Ahklise0dodslmmdmwina hem imis. pmlb lAd Limm amewksta  dw maiule kt shoM aWm be mete Oim liMy map mu be iunaeDmulyefl
a_1d 1Miem_s bemm or th Im of aindddud doWdio  ad =Wul cd_ dlb.eanemmriw ma oih   te da The da ae. aeeteln uaW go
domiim , -dof amegakWd. diciim  011116 med IhaeIm coem imi     dMirin biewm mmoaL.
TM rahrmu gp  mI 1) then mtrp go" of imr vebimet ummeup ad (2) a ctimy Fe" wM *arewha bl  aw.aw _iamiw dm  thd  mm"
row e ofimmmuamy (eam" hr' Hb tmomOl lapinE 4       g rowlueMw ddh IamieWerth Aiwad Midd EUg a d   1.1 b'immea owo.
aeds.iuaml adml.o latdo ad-   Poo dat a d avaupe - mepebtie wemaud atm   rauiss fo sel udicta sd ike. ady when oMai
th  amma md tdtDI eee
AREA (thouand sq.k)                                          Ckue h* Amt (par t r)-Numlber or li  births in the year
ruse--Total surface am conmpun land am  a ninland waters;    per dousan or mid-yar popultio. 1960.1970, ad  1983 data
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                    CGa  D_min Rae (per e)-NmNubr olNrdeabs in  e yar
giCOkMd-Etimate or agricultural ar usi  temporarily or       pe thusn ofmid-year popflaiow; 1960. 1970. ad 1913 datL
pranamdy ror crops. pastures. maket and kith- pgand   or to    Grts_ Aep.dsidl Raft-Average number of daughtm* a wom
fie rallow. 1960.1970 and 1932 data                          wil bar in her nonmal reproductive period ir sh   pen
p .: -aespecilfcferityae u       llyfive-yeraverag ndin
GNP PER CAPITA (US)-GNP per capita esnmat  at currmnt        in 1960, 1970, and 1913.
markt pncea. clulated by sam  conveeso  meod - Wod               : P-'w,'r        As    d   (t*e.md-Annual  an1-
Beak ArtIa (1981183 basis); 1983 dats .erof nocpes o b                                r  er                 o
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CA_E&-Annual apput                   fiilvy plming perm
conmpuon of commercial pmary ene    (coal ad lipenezc               P1,#-DJm (puwu .lmmvidin)-The pm-
petrolcum. natwal gs and hydro-. nuclear and geotbhmal dec-    tao  of mamod wome ofchild-beaing ag who am pracing or
ticiy) in kilogm  of ol equivalent per capira 1960. 1970. and  whse   nds ame practcig any form of ;couacpt    Wome
1912 daza.                                                   of Child-bearing age are gen y womn agd 15-49. although for
mm  couim conuacepte mpe s ameoxd for othr age
POPULATON AND VWrAL SUT MCS                                  grup.
Teed PhFbd-A. MidYeariu.        -    of July 1; 1960 1970.   FOOD AND NURMON
and 1913 daa.
Urb_ AVahm_en (pemew  ajr rod)-Ratio of urban to toi         fdra Of Feed PrSd Per Caita(19-f100)-Tnd exof pe
LFuiu Ppd-.u  peiuatof 1.0Rato o uran o ttal  capita annual producti onr an rtoad coannoditieL Ptuductioa
poultUion:diffcdretidnOfurbnaemamayaIeC         comPwr-      excudes anil red and se tor agioure Food commodities
abiity of data among countriesa 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   indiude primary commoditie (e4g. sugarcne instead of supr)
A_0d-  Pkjeciew                                              whicb ae edal and conti nuents (eg. coff  and te are
Pop*anuo  m year 200-e prjectn of populton for 2000.  c_duded). thqy compre cereal. root crps, pulbse  oil seds
made for each economy x.sately. Stuting with infonnaton on   IqtbkS frts, nuts, sugrn and sugpr bees. vtock, ad
toa populto by age and se. feirlity rtes, mortality rates, and  P vsock poducts. Aggreg  producto of each country is bosed
inteaional migration in the bas yetr 19t0. these par.mctcrs  on national averge producer price weights 1961-65. 1970Q and
we  pojected at fve-year intervals on the bass of gcFeraliaed  19B2 dta
sumptions unti the popublio bcame stationary.               P- Cqpit.SWO . fCd-i (Pueaaof dirv        wu)--Compia
Sauaoy popukami-,ls one n which age- and x-speciLfic mor-    ed fim calorie equivalnt of nct food supplies valabk in country
talny ztes have not chaged over a long period, wbi agedfic   per caa per day. Avail  sApplies compis domet poduc
feiliy rtes have amutamusly remained at rpacemenl kvd       nion imports ls        t  and chane in staciL Net supplies
(net reproduction rat-1). In such a popuai, the birth rte is  exclude aima red, see  for us in a hukut qute ted io
consta  and equal to the deah rte, the ag stuue is aso       food processin  and los in disti o.L Requirments wce
constanL and the gmwth rat is zero. Tbe stationry popation   eiatd by FAO bad on pbysiologl nd rnormal aaciy
sizc was estiu ed on the bais of the projected claacteistic of  and bealth consdi  envuimetal tmpeatur  body weights
the populaon in the year 2000. and the rat of  of fertility  age an se distribution ofpopulationand allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment levd.                                     wase at houehold klvd  1961. 1970 nd 1982 data.
Pbpulmm Momaentn-Is the tendency ror populationt of
contnue beyond the tam that rhvd  firaiEty ha been           percapita nzt supply of food perday. Net supply ofrood is ddinod
achdved: thzt as. evn after the net rproducon  te ha rched   as above. Requiremnts rer aU counries eaWbised by USDA
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year r i measured a  provide for minimum arowaoc of 60 gms of tord protein per
a ratio or the uliate stionary populon to th populaion in    day and 20 gran of anial nd pls protein. of which 10 gras
the year . give the ans ption dtat fertily remn at replace   should be animal protei. Thes sundardsAr lower than those of
ment levd from year r onward, 1915 data.                     7S guma of tota prtein and 23 pazcs of animal protein as an
110fi                                                        averg ftor the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
ntr Sq.rn.-Mid-yar populaion per sqaw kilomn  (100 htr,      Suppr. 1961. 1970 ad 1912 data.
tam) of total arm 196Q 1970. and 1913 dataL                   Air Cai hwu  Supp  hum Ad-dead Pai rotei- n supply
Pkr sqJbk. arsCJudr   Laud-Computed as above for agric_ukal  of fooddcved fromanma and pul  in gms perday; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 19B2 dam                           1970 nd 1977 data.
Apliu. Age Sw;e(wd    (0-14 yel work-                        CM(q.s 1-4) DsdAw (pw'thesind)-Numberof(daths of
ingage(15-64 yeanr). and  d  (65 yarsand over) a pentage     cbildrn agd 1-4 yen per thou"nd children    the sme age
of mid-yar populatio  1960. 1970, ad 1983 dait.              group in a Siven ye  For most deveopingcotunes data derived
AP 1-1  G _Wt Awe (w                                eoffl   v   r      trmm lire ubles 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year populaon fror 195060- 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Fig Iia GrowCt Rae    --)-whm-Annua growth rates             4fi E       _pwey at ASW  (ews)-Number of yean a  wbOen
of urban popultOn for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infat would live if prailing paUern of monality tor all peo*



- 27 -                                            AN=I~ I
page 4 of 7
X~Eraee  ato _ pvznwy. 4aid sacs dayw-Totl itodMui  15.
at d  time of of ts biah w    to sMy de mm througout iut life;  h u" /r                            divi-dedX by mmsb O
1960, 1970 and 1913 data.                                     rolled in pWnay and Ibcondery nv d          b
h    Mraft  Jlaft Jpudm)-Number of inats who die                a_sm  thU iarepOOdiRs bl
beoem reaching oc Yer Of ag Pcr thousan live birth imta * piva
)tmtr 1960.1970 and 1933 data.                                COrIUIbIFIO
A  -  ~~  H~  (~r   ~/P*Naduimk.sw.ai                   asseg   Ca. (Per tAhE,W  PVVW1AftTz)-PasiengW  can corn-
,uu-Nuabe ofpeole totl. rba.  nd asA with W3oSnO   puise motor canrSW- se tinls thanz eight p6rsons ecldudes ambul-
,,.-Nuabff oatf upeplys (intdLudbe issta  audem  waters or    anal, hearses and military vehiles.
aimeasd bat unauamminld waw sAch a  that fa(0W prct.d          ,&  Ra.c,s,v (pm' rhesalpepidutiekxW_   1 typMm of rever
bombohe. apn ads.nitary  walbi    up oofthir P                for nadio broadcas  o geneal public per thoud of popuhtion;
inv apopuaIMMM  In aw urban am a ublic founin    sdpo         exduds un-licensd reaives in countries and in yeaw  wben
ess  not tm     a m n 200 M   fro  a house Dmy ba             tegi or radio set was in dcffct; data for rrmnt an may
a bag wudma resonabek   d   of that houe.    rwl ar           not be comprable since mot num untri  abolished litaing.
reasonable am m~ould uiaOply am ghc  ou                        Vhdivor    b( of  pm rhdpT     advers for broadcast
bosioddo not have to speed s dispropOUt1010aW PMart fthe dayci  uk   atomdppuain  xud   niadT
i fething 'be 6am 2lWOW =OD&           x            _|.        mrever in counties and  yciws when regstion of TV sm  wa
AmerM V. EZWat Ddupea (Pweg  ofpminih)-Ecd.
md ,rsww-Nmber of people (totaL urban, and mnal) srved by
exaua disposal as puomlaes or diesr -s petive population.     AfNw C-ag*dc (pw sMmmdpp    .j-Shows the aver-
Excr&a djsow may incuduc dh collection and disposal. with or  4 g       tion  of daily F nd  intaest nw,p    d e     a
without treatment, of hunan excreta and waste-water by water.  pio         pubicaton devoed primaily to recording enr    news.
bor  systems or the use of pit pivies and silar insiaations    It is conidered to be daily if it appean at last four  timesa woc.
pipadem pa Mysichw-Population divided by number or prac-       Cs   A,d   Aadepr Copies _-  ew-Based on the
uingphysiciquaed fron a medicalschoolat universityleve.        mumnr Of ticts sold dunng the yerir induding admmo   to
hp atm pw N_inm  JPrue-Populaution divided by number of        dXvW-in cineus and mobile units
praccng mal and feal Vaduate nurses. assistant nurses,
pictical nurses sod nuring auxdiarieT L abR FOtve
a p. Hpitl &-s,    n and r I-l?1pulaion,                       Tw r x            (uv ps                                 
(total. rban. and rrl divided by th  respove _   umbr of        luding armed frces and nmployed but eluding housewivs,
hosplw b    available in public and prinatc. grat an           sudcnts. etc, covering population of adl ag   Definitions in
bospas and bdiitanon emtczum Hoapr are am       u"smems        varius countriu am not compaable 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
pwemanty saffed by at let one physica  Establshments ptv-      F        (p    -funale labor force as     togp of tota ao
dirig principally cusal care am nog incltded. Rual hospital    fom
howcvr. indude health and medical centers not permanely stafed  Agvieamrr (parsorr-Labor fome in fanming. forestry, bunng
by a physiian (but by a medical assistnt, nurse midwik. etc    and fishing as perntage of total lbor fat: 1960. 1970 and 1980
whih offer in-ptit accommodation and provide a limited range   data
of modicai facdies.                                           Iamry (pacentk-IAbor force in mining, constructo  mnu-
A _ls&sk r pa Ha;pial Bed-Total number of adrmission to or     ctuting and elecdicity. water and gs as pecentage of total labor
dischrg  from hospita dividd by the number of bed.             fo: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data
POW.*ddp   sRe (Pwcg)-ras4    Midmud--&,ipio
HOUSINIG                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL nta,e. m    rema labor form
A-me Sic f HMo-d  (pe     p-                )-ss tul. aris.    as percetaps of totaL male and female popubltio  of ai apts
.bdn-,ol    ouAbouscaoldFanistswragroupof individuals wbosha          vely, 190. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes     baurd on lOs
living quarters and thr main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partiiatio rates rdlecting age-scz struct  of the populatiot, and
may eot be icudad in the houbeold for stLisIc  purpos.         tong time tr     A few estim   are fiot naioa soures.
AvW Nas*JwqfFamessra lxs--ax4 wIm  aWidin-                     Echrm._i  Deps:w Ratio-4ano of population tnder 15. and
Average number or persons per room in a  uUrban. and nual      65 and ovcr, to the working ag popultion (then apd 15-4).
o ied conventiosl dwellin    respectively. Dweligs cxdude
noVn-perManet strUCIUtes and unoupied prts.                    INCOME DLSTM UTIOlN
hrrzuq  of D-eMugrD w"it E&kft-a4 wbas, ad rua&-               hcgt. of Tin DkpesIi Im     (bo_ v esA aid M0_-
Conventional dwelipngs with ciecuicity in living qum   as pemen-  Accruing to percentle groups of households ranked by total houn-
tagr of total. urb    and rural dwellnp v r etiey.             hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERza TARGET CROUPS
A        E    _ Rin'i  ,                                       The follwing estims am very apprnmte measures of poverty
frinwy -chA l ro - I made and ferrae-Gross tardaL male a       leI kes and sbould be inerpreted with considerable cauton
female enrolment of all aes at the primary lvel as percenrta  of  EsisaadAksorhm vey Iamw L"d (USSfper cJpa)-w6w
mapecrve pmnauy scbool-ag popultons Wbile mny counmes          ai -Absolute poverty income levl is that income lvel
consider pmary school age to be 6-11 year oers do not. The     below which a minmal nutritionally adequt diet plus essential
differDccs in country prcsin the -ags and durantion of sxhool  non-food  quirements is not afordable.
amn:rlcted in the rto   un. For some countris wih universal    E      Re ivE  Ibenry I      e LCIPff (USIp.. cati-4raiM
ductio, gro en oilm.t may exceed 100 par sntm m  some            d ,wrl-Rural relative poverty incme levd is one-thid of
pupils are beow or above the country' stadar primary-school    average per capa personal incom  of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for hier cost of
Secmupyiy sdwo  - wod, mok wafnark-Computed as above            ving in urban as
eseondary educaton rqm   at keat rour yean of apprved pfi-      EUId A"Wax: Mew A&h  wi Aerty Aicomr Lewd (par.
mary i   on  provides SUIeraL. V0tionaL or teach  tanmuig     caaJr-w wm    mi- Ptrcst of oopultion (urban and rual
mstra on for pupam Lsaly of 12 to 17 yeas of a  correspond-    who are -ab     poor.-
c  couse are Sn-y exdudd
Vexationd EwoMbmt (percv ofsecrday)-Vocational insttm-                    Compaative Analyis and Dat Division
os incuhde tchnicaL induL or otbe progrms which or                     Economic Anialyss and Projee_n Deparftm
independently or as dcprtms ofcondary       on                                          June 19



lm "E   pp_1 
Efl~ d    apmsaS - un  MP           po- p      *. orM  swm   mlmm3 * mmp . i mqw omu  m  o  ep,c
VI  2-   10        -        vma -m -of
VI    slo    010             M -WWAS I"
Tmc          rc qm   -
~~ ma ma~u   P -~~t  at  ~   - tram    - ur   i   - a        !mS 1, nA-
_ _S'9   tx-    WE          'WO      u 31A
L*O    S'O   o*O              1IAa t|ll
-         ;i   (z3    '     ) mm "Nov 
VI   WV    61t   vv    ret 3E    l4LUPRO  0w
Vt    S-I   s-    ri    ri       v                                 a-A     w
rsi   si-  s-ao   rc    aI    rs                              I-) 3315  -  .* rn
rz    m    rt   rti   rsn        sWi RJ
r-  -u    ;        r     rt rii r g  a" ._
.ti   ,,1w *1i  un   C,u                                 czIY   1 ) ininU 2Fi
.u    rsa      ri-                    ra       zi     rni    rls                    -i
s-     r-       cu                      -      s-i _           s                       SW
IIIs    CL                         ru      r1      rig    ru
ft     s@-t   vs-                      ru      s-c iP   s      s-
.-     s rr    ri                      rvz     ru      vi      c_
i      it      et                      sI      S-IE    ca      itt                       A 1 
;-     st s.   r                       rK      s       rui    ri                        wao
rB    ri       ra                      st      c-       i     s-Pt                    aui
Vi   s IV        I                     ami    om       rm      WON                   -p        n
ns-mv   vats    s-at:    i    nc      is                    (WI-gm) c      AD
t~~~~~~~~~~a-    l ri f                                  fn  ts.    us-    ra         r      F     (FrFf1r wI.U  - 
rs     ns       r-     Vs      VD       re         rzt   s-c    rot-   rii-   rl         r-        MCI "DM                   
1      s-i    s-c      TV     r,      s-m         au    VCi    es-.-    VWr frs-        tt        E                 SW. _ -_ mz
ri      ri      re      rii    11'n              rLo >        rt m         11r 9 b  1sl    Wi      twi             vi 'a   *
rL      r        t       -'s   rt      *.          Vs-   0si-   ra        ro      rL     Vs.       ,ar
vi      ni      Ct      rc    rs       rc         rsc     s-i-    rel       o-   t i    tCn 't                              J
iS     rG      Vs      VI      VL                  rc vs    ram    -o     sc    si    cs c                               An
s-i    sII      III     r      rt       It         rt     ft        0      s-i    ri      - z                           _  _
s-      u-     s-i    s-i r     -  sc   ,          s-    s-cr-    *o      f  ri-          c a Vs    WE- e 
061  _1       m                      au        71     Ping      Volmam             m1PUl 1u
t@|a-[*J ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ES4   iiTt  s-u U-|-                 tF
-        8Zm -  m
LP1s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g             - sz -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~La   oprf



-29 -
~-  mma                                                              -    t
lutdeieer                 (t3)                            Actual                                              Prajaccei
1975    imo    aSa       Ias       ISD      '       3       3        19w7      m        ima   1a10
se_ 2.                              a      o9    21.2     9.9     -3.0        .     2161 0    4.        4A       4         3 .3 33         4.0
ftump-                        o m       20.7    MA      "A       -a0.1   U   J      9.0      -1        42 .2             4 .4     4       4i.
sIamdam/h                  1_0.          0.0     2.5    40A       7.4      4.       20.      -1.0      3.0     S3        GA        .A     7.A
Pbgdmn IM                   33.4        -3.0      IA     -..4    -W3       -9       3.3       3A        2.2      9A   * 2          9.o     Li
1~ 4 ~wmr                  1,073        3.2    13.2   .4         -i.      -4.1   3324         A       3.0      3.3      7J       7.  Ul
1.0          -3i  l.D*       -        4.3     -304    -13.0      -0.9        I       Li    -LA        LI      ILI
_a.us        9.      4.    -4.       -9J       -1330     .A       D.      21.7      3J       9.       3 
3,2mD       40.3    -2        34 A0..2-10-3 2..9                 21        Si       9.0      I0.      3u      3
lutftif                                   37 I    J                          192      191      Dl       2Z
1ftIwIai                                 242      431     414 72            49 373             M U               NO V0 e               4n   5
%M elf Tade U"~73                       37       9        43       M0       P        42       *        to       73      71       73
OP&lag Nwmwdffm nm   C                          kmm  *L Mamem CO
(a  cm   Ptai)                                  (a    _    392 udd)
Ms~        M.    iM        a                         10y,-   IN=    -1RPW
30.0    30.0   1M"0   1mu                            1.        1.0    L1
kinYp                           AL7      4        4.2      44i                        1.1 3     U       44
.mteZnb                         37J      !5.2  DJ          53.3           J.2/L  21.2                    Ls
Ip.0 3s.0          .0    10to                         -3.4    -4.7       94
ran_ ol                           J      11.1     15I      133                        37.     - *4.     44
1ami_                          2JJ4    /A.4       Li        LI                        43       -7J      L2
_aoimw  _cd owdome      25.5     I3.      NJ       33.0                       43       -3A      IL1
xi*      3.1     *7.0     47                         -1.9 _     .1      9 g
-m  d T_ d                  M   o cm  Of    r .1   etr
;b 1 cmmlm CZ)            oks.1cg Qgi  (2)            unow  1 3ma_  a)
_i____ of__ 1r75    133 I11                      Mr      INS      1 r-W           '973    10 o      W
bta                          (0W2    57Y3   eL3         D.5     35    21A          0J      1.3    L2
rNPKU                        67J3    445    xi          37      ILO3     17.       3.2 O    1    193
ja Jew  do ped 11-1130. hkWV PIC  1d_ _N_-1w           1          laO IMq
n r a c           19710.         _         -  -w _
lo ,c a                 -    M1 EalIM1 - fbUml
s Na _mel     e,        . f aw d     e  m  m, _ im           N  . _   w.      d e        ad   m-  U a  for    at ad
1130
_1mm     "mm               MW L1sw Ia 1123   s ..     Cumcc no pewums_ 1W0e va      .m               m       cum  et  s
3m 117to he insLy  iy mdpt.m cdm   W    d oepd ~acIm in1 p-f-                wfo Sm   cuof do  m% ad4 ~m  mg          S  uomo
-    -  Smw  agomiu iniecd m. Prilm tot M           ad   bom-w  -w yew         l homm  f18-mia umiscp1w   Imemm a   ). o a
-mIMa   313 ta.U 1          izp  I          fIm   odtdWiutcl-o    f -  1po t= mu sommito             u de   Im f- d        La
VIb    OMMOCM  l.d Ad    ip~n mgt  N1 COa   M*:  VCLwdImNE. m0 411"ULDIL RItI Sl.f   -  tiO         u. to ~tmi N ow
sm   12Ldpm   ,oa  to~ fim   mm.mr  TI caftm In dnodc Onag   mpk  faa bocmlm of CP m. amec Onpedl            o Isawn         t
tf         taf  SM.= Wi 1*3[M13   G0.Q  W  Ia 1123 fmidIf  I -  MM  f imI maI 213  01   -* cgUlVA    a 4 m*
V* f-a   4c IL  Lw fad. r '*_               U1   -  o                       feo -ur sho  a_  peru  I_hI  iom fl.
Own amba gm  dal s 15 IMAM - Ul& Sem. b m doom M VI   1fwU1  p                    S lat t      tPrime le - m     fm        ma
IlL
x1 2,13



- 30 -
NWft. Gomm. ma.em (uam
_.  m    ~        ~       ~        ~        9
II        Am          02        30         13        30  i                am         391        30       tim         1Om
km lingUa .3 030- 242 .d 2.rim      -d.162    -12.34    -33.13    -4.20   s ..               an     -3.01    -2.30        -3.993      -n79       -181 i
au  o,. on"                     IIIIP    sjs        u"s           "in    A.M         IJM       3M         se.16     341            w.     ".w         3.1.l ^1f1  *,tZ
wIol.0               ad t_i    33.919                     .0"  U Iq.M        343        23.92       10 ,13   121.30      9.        Is."?1   27.13       3.217
kge 02e32r:= mm.3.3                            -.I        .32 -    3.93.2    .46.313   -30.31    -2.M       -20."T   -13.2311  -2.30    -12.m 0        -2.729
fo1 002.2 Immm      am           (.02      (.42 1*0             39.33    (3.0231   3.3133   (33M1m1)   C9.31321    3931).1    (0.0185   330.091    120oj"
kObeUW-Ao3    3.3.202              -1.229    .31*2      -2.302    -.3189   -2.3)        -2.1)2     -z.fh     -I.=       -0.000    -2.M2      -1.113    -G.92
019 mt.                                  13       1U         to        -20        26         In          0          0          a          0         a          6
boeo  lmmm belmm                    4.40    -32.03    -33.30    -25.331        4.241        03      -3,201     -1.319     -.511       .mn        -ml        -no
D03m   Pvm_    _maim                   2        1.121       .39        903        O2       2.02  1      3,i m2               U        Ij2.0      I.s3e     3.623
WX *    4323                        2.830     4.*0       a.40       7.40      1.J23      0223       I.1n 9      .n.      4.27 *.291            1229      1.233 1
0gm  U*oviano0                     46.94133   33.23133 31  3 (II110  4933    110.91021  (30.102)   MAG16    330.JI03  (3093?)  (10.0213)  (3.3023S  (30.&323
asmamesm                  C~~2.13333    (1.9111)   (?*1.39    31.4"2  .13I(020            2.2)    33vtlo3)C1.1) C4.2303   (30.pl0)  (22.1143   322.33   (IS*092
Itmi1_ tm_ _ootm  3303               -391        -1:       -as          I         .1 n      *m          *     -3.90      -1.       -2.10      -3.M       -3.09
Ober C9020   32..3Adt      ov
_l 0"_INi)                           -71      2"4        2.329     2.39      -3.9       4.131       -u                   -*10    -3.193      -1.SA      -3.363
Ba bnto  goom~  3- 25d42mm
ftaft.0                             343v      3.391       431.     0,133         so    p.12         -M         -no2       434         "I    -2.30       -2.391
Utnt.o..o o           larn  I..159              0.932      1.50  .30            2.31230111 3         0JJ  wG  .91  21.137    32.230  22.0       1.30      10.010
-_ eat eab0243                        SG      1.24         9          0          0
an gIb.3d b,ofI g,.3ON)             .2.       2.0        3.3        1.0       2.3        4.0       04         0.0        3.4        1.3       4.9        0.2
0gm. 02.be.           0.922     12.233    30.323~~~~~~~~I  to90  3033     a080       a43        30.2        3.30         so02   3.0       342
3012.1 1mg.                         -          -          -         -          -         s -     *             -      *n            -     n z -     . -Is 
_E .S s.m1 *            .32                      3          2s.=     202    le.0    i1w             1        I.0          Im 13 00     30 ,      20
de fta"L       c1ir * e             sit       GU 30a"                         an2         0       . _3                    3         2_  _  _3_
13-       24 3t -.X  -.                            i           3..          0          9         3          0e         0 GO *. SX
0~  *tasm.L                         Ito 063  1120         in.     3.303     2.3S0  23.0           011       2.3        38.90     2041       269.9      3232
MftmmLw bOmo                     4 123     10.22      13uS        03jw      3.3        2.3 I231    13o0               1 1@.1 11.31  goi.n  In 0       7. 32
11m3802     N   dDutw               230t       22241      39121   n023m      3.302      2.20      13.222    Sim3        "3.20     3.03ji   w1.30    3:.23
0*,24 ....rdsl      129a    3II           190       3"2        2*7       a.         297      27'          2*0       30         39      219
9r20  M.                          4.13wub  p  20.132  30.20     23.123      3.323    I29x7    23.22         3.102     23.191    3.802      3j.913     17.20
--50 32I32  303.m.                343       2.9    01         1 3.30        1320      3002       9122       9303      0933    20233        *00       230
_ _.bI..      - n2ow                2.610    22.4       3220       2.2       23.911     1.71      22.31      203        9.9        9.U0,      9.03      9.172
d2abe                      1.3        LS        2.2        4.1.      32.1       4.9        9.1       8.2        1.0        1.3       1.0        7.3
r_SAo1 U                             0.1        L7         2La       32.        2A   l     2    l 0            ,          7, 1.2     7.3       1.4        7.0
tM  =.2  mga2mfO.O  4.2W 11            L DI  P    2.1       2.2        ii         0.        2.6        0.2        4.3       3.         0.2                  7.L
781.2 ft00t.w ommOlb               32600     22& 1..12    32 1     d.3       22.3111,   31.931     MITI    26.39       23.31      3211.263    10.03    22."o,
_   _ _ mg         3.401      0232 .     113       I.222      7.       20          2 10.27l            Loin[    30J1S2      14.33       31.30
k      s.s1    w _ *u, (30OJ          MA          3.        02.A       2.17      "J.0      7313       30.0        3.2      26.9O      26.        23.8      &I.
ftwonud Lm    CZ) is.3.1                22.7       234       22.1       31.0       32.9      32LA       9.9        9.9        9.1        9.3       9.3
amow must7 off NW
0-2.a-  3mms (Ym.3 it                   V    9.      7 0      9.1      13.9        9.3       9.0       10.3       21.0       U.  11.0   2         12.3       L1.1
01tg.2                                 13.       12.2      2I4        2.7        32.9                                                            U.S. a  .  0.  ,    77
101.0g.ftw    _                        2.9        0.9        9.4      30.2        L. A..                          ..       m.         a..         ..         ..
_2.    2m t   .2      3 *a                                  3l 9.5 r.s
Ibew.00le_m hr 002s 10 *w                                   In.
Zmomem 30mm .1M3g2030003019
_-30mg * ualst lead nm da  7  Jma
13m w m e3  mO         kmte     wwa0me 3    mm Mus, 2220  wIn 2001. so bm-Mm deft.
flt  * be onAg fea 9W. *J _*
! _ 2*. W mU.? fr 3972.. 1.
14~~~~~~ lr.mU                                           J m.
I.b    30  O  n.mOa  molmi              *.s  mm .22    m  is.  For2 e              *0 . 0     * .60_2 *m_r3   rilbI3wmd2   0  23m.01
-w _  am30.                                                                                                                           Up 2. 290



- 31 -
Page I of 3
THE STATMS aF DAK G111P OPERNS IN ERAZIL
A. SMHA STIT2 OF OANS
(Am of M'b  31, 1985)
A.otmt leos Undle-
Lon     Year           Borrommr                                Cnlatubtw.od
*(Us$  ~Milon)
Sevensty tw  loao, fully diareed                                  3,107.7
1195    1976  kal                             Ranal Developnt        12.0        1.3
1317    1976  Brazil                          Agro-Izidastry         83.0       25.9
1362    1977  State of Mims GCand             Rural Develop          42.0        1.4
1452     1977 Brail                           Edcation               32.0        7.1
1488     1977  Erml                           Rural Developmnt       11.0        2.3
1525     1978   uoacional da BbSitacw         S erage               110.0       57.5
1537    1978       l                          Rural Deve1ot          24.0       13.2
1538     1978  ELEUDAS                        PoMm                  130.0       15.8
1557    1978  Bril                            Roads                 114.0       17.3
1568     1978  Brazil                         Agrie Etensio         1W.0        16.4
1589     1978  k:ail                          Rral Dvelooent         37.0       15.0
1654     1979 Banoo Naclonal da Habitaceo     Sites and Services    93.0          .6
1656    1979  U Nmco Naclonal da Eabitacao    Water and Se3erae    100.0        13.2
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural DeYeliumnt       26.0       16.3
1720    1979  Bkail                           Urban Develovmnt       70.0       26.6
1721    1979  COP.                            Power                 109.0       26.7
1728    1979  kazil                           Rural Development      40.0       22.5
1729     1979  mrazil                         1irgaziou              28.0        4.7
1730-5  1979  fresil                          Roads                 110.0       25.7
1822-5  1980  amil/NDE                        Pollution Cutrol       34.0       30.4
1823    1980  Bo  Nacionl da Habituamo        Water Supply          130.0        4.3
1824     1980 cm                              Poer                  114.0       73.2
1839     1980 Bril                            Urban Tramsport       159.0       37.9
1850    1980 sanco Naclosl da Habitacao       Water Supply          139.0       32.9
1867     1980 frail]                          EdicatLon              32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minus Gerad           Rural Devel.   nt      63.0       51.5
1895    1980  &EUOSUL                         Paver                 125.0       87.9
1924    1981  Brazl                           Rural Develoment       56.0       23.9
1939     1981  ELEIROBRAS                     Po..r                  54.0       43.4
1965     1981 ENMU                            Urban Tfrisuport       90.0       57.0
1970     1981  -ano Naclal da EHbitacso       Water Supply          180.0      108.0
1969     1981 Brazil                          Alcobol Development  250.0        87.0
2015     1981  Brail                          Agriculture            29.0       16.6
2016     1981  frLIl                          Agriculture            60.0       17.9
2060     1982  Brazil                         Agriculture            67.0       31.4



- 32 -
-II
Pag 2 of 3
A. sUaRYTATEEW  OF LOANS (Continud)
(AS of March 31, L985)
Amoet low   Unis-
Loan t  Year           Borrow                    purpe        Cacellatios  bursed
CUSS Milo.
2061    1982 Brazil                          Health                 13.0       6.0
2062    1982 Brazil.                         Highapn              240.0       63.7
2116    1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4      15.1
2138    1982 EIZIROBRAS                      Power                 182.7     146.4
2163    1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4      i8.6
2170    1982 Brazil                          Urban Develoap  t    123.9      105.0
2177    1982 Brazil                          wural Developrnt      42.7       31.7
2193    1982 Brazil                          Urban Developinwt      8.9        4.8
2196    1982 CVRD                            Iron Ore             304.5      117.1
2224    1982 Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0     129.0
2225    1982 UNDES                           Devatomeat Baidng  220.0          9.5
2249    1983 Banco Nacioual da Habitacao    water Supply          3023       210.0
2268    1983 Brazil                          Agro-Industries      400.0      374.0
2269    1983 Brazil                          Rural D nlo  t        67.8       60.0
2343    1983 Brazil                          Urban Development     52.7       48.1
2347    1983 Brazil                          Eqxnrt Dsvelipont   352.0         1.4
2348    1983 Brazil                          Agriculture          303.0        6.0
2353    1983 Brazil.                         Agrictatur- 65.2                 61.0
1729-1  1983 Brazil                          Agriculture            7.7        7.7
2060-1  1983 Brazil                          Agriculture           22.8       22.7
2364    1983 Eletrobras                      Paer                 250.6      227.5
2365    1983 Eletrobras                      PoW                  22.8       190.5
2366    1983 Brazil                          Iducatio              20.0       17.4
2412    1984 Brail                            Adation              40.0       36.9
2446    1984 Brazil                          Federal Highways     210.0      189.7
2447/1  1984 State of Sao Paulo              Health                55.5       55.5
2448/T  1984 State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies         2.0        2.0
24887r  1985 Brazil                          Development Bav*is   300.0      300.0
2489/T  1985 Brazil                          Education             72.0       72.0
Total                                             9,866.7 /2
Of which bas bean repaid to the BaEk              1,734.8
Total n  outstanding                              8,131.9
Amount sold                            45.8
Of wbich bas been repaid             45.8           0.0
Total ow held by Bsk                              8,131.9
Total izxisbursed                                            3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
7.? No IDA credits have beea made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bask/MDA financed projects in execution, which is updated tiice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -                                                     N 3 d 3
. sln w D n _n mW ea  l b ii I)
Real                                                                                                             las   In    
-w                                    OblItar              .&M                                                                 U   
ai.oh. S. A.  .a. * BL                                    hi am a                            1M        -       L
1955         ~~~0. E R LP       d m ub~. S.&.                          /nod,                               0.45 OA0.65
1 _                UIP-h.CU  0 8E.L. S. A. - ta*M   a           Dno    ci                                       2.0       -      265
1i     t      4      UUa Mon  d 0          hgtln  S. A.                     -4 _                                          -       LUM
1M                 Os, C           saIi n              S. A.                 Ip                                 4.00      -      6.0o
m691    ignI72     A    1WiJi     A. sA.                                       I.DO  LD.                                          9.3
IIWIU              b1 * Cdaaum Ckdae . S.L A.                                ip    14                           3.18     3.61     7.19
1957l97n2          UlmI     . S.A. - *.aws    d     s hD UUUi               rxulmm                              am       3.03   11
km 1UM  tUM1D. 5. A.                                                        hm ad.                              5.30 _8           3 LU.
19J                h1'a3          S.A.    x a                Lm T*dv1                                           5.       2.        .
911    ~ ~~ALafo 'L A. ZbroU1   a                                     hffemmam.3                          4.40     I."6    3.0
1971               No Gm   - Sika d CalIi d  Ad                             PAP                                 4.*0      -
1972/197511%1        dja    ch a      NI    aiid                                                              133.1I4    6.70   375.
19731AM7MU         cmd. szn.g'm  _ Qd            - *U                              d697L                         x        5.7    97_ w
197                EP1rnL limc  1odp       agPk  - paceI                    Q.LrL limc D~tqm                    SA        -       SX
L973/19MMR15U            0 ONM.          d PA         mm  - CE. S. A.   3.L IUWqad Siiq                        95.00     LA    21.74
unm                1a5os  VU.b*i. S.~ A.Umm  nd                                                  g fu w1   q    6.00      -       3.0
LM1                fU0dc do 16A. lbm    S. A.                               mc                                 31.0       -      31.0
19i3/mi"                         imob l_ ma m,t Led.                        (wgu a*                             0.31     15       7.37
1Ws5               hKUM Mmo . S. A.                                         PWaumIa_                            Wm.0      -      10.0
Iwo                hucl   lasc   - 2-1 ab abndm. SL A.                      TM.3I                               3.4      LW       7.65
19u70/9            TAW S A.  t_CL 09=, su       03mm                        Tlim                               13.5              1
197               fig. -,6 re       mmzaazq                                 k  at Abml                         m.ooW      -      u.oo
197                33anmw No d. &M   S. A.                                                                     15.00      -      I5sm
oen      e     _      CRQ 206331  S. A.                                     I-      5w                          33       &M      [LA
1979               V.w do imL mmin. vIasam. S. A.                           imr Tddz                           8.00      5.7    35.37
1BWd .0   _mm S. A. -ikih                                                   g          ca2o)                                     2.00
19W                Dm  b Stm S/A -   OM 7-
Zo Ce~  oma_ dB Owll
~~~~~ Z    Cao 0.<m                                                    S.  *                              3.50      1.110    4.50
19W                Wfla    7.&MM   do am S. A. - WI L                       DM ad Sa                             .0
19W                MI - Cwfta mama   ra hhZseu1                             oIsk    A  SACadmoiu               35.0      2.      17.00
90W                 Dmiaka 1        Snu . S. .madU  Mid si Izao2    -   0.2                                                       0.J
190        1        m     A         OdIM a IblL SIA       -O        -c|                                        3SM       3.0    61.0
19w                MIMI lmpeodin                                           Chin1a SWd Iimdmi.a                43.0      5.0    63.0
in                 halmirn                                                 ?bus a- CIL LmO                     -        1.50    1.
19O               4     a  iMlI      0 Ap1da d  - A uM I                    Sad a_d raw Sluq                     .5      3.0  -5l0
IgO ~~~~       QI-Q_             ad-0_1fi_  I_oudlu                                                       43.0      1.10   50.00
1i3                 f m                                                            a   4in1       ,jhMaLa      40-       500    43.00
OR         _        bm  cam                                                 cam   t_t G=5FI  _F = s            4 00W   sLW 
190                 rta   S. A.                                             Mbu_ Ci.m2. r                      30M       .00 0AS    30.
19W               &Oa varmmvd~      d ze Bucldpins (CW)                     imy raogmL Ib-                      -         .03     L51
Igo                kACI  PdECLM                                             rod aft mud llindzt                13.00     -       10
19W                  3a  3am& _b AM   olb Ml                                                                    3.10  l.10
1995    ~ ~~ ML- 3PL   de          S.i.                               ilai 4  .ra   P.                    3.0       5.1.7   33.7
IS    Q            Sommd&&                                                   Ad so Fd  Inggo                    3.0      2.50    5.50
I190                                    Paid a                                           1a   s lasdMe 8    33.00        -       330
153                GNNa ALcoidm*vd  F06Inin.Lm   ad lFfOmNIaO                                                  50.00     4.00    24.0
IgW                   tn da Ad                                              Ouedsai  m4           u             2173     La       6.5
TL GC   G       D                                                                   L97    9SS   1I01
1_ 3m1hcai. .     _      .   1    ad shml                                          .L1       3t.1.3  67L.2
q        _iw e            D                                                        W3.3U     0.31   m.&
Tami t_adaand                                                                       7L.39      _     8L.95
A5. M M



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1. Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project:         3 months
(b) Agencies which prepared project:       MINTER & SUDENE
(c) Initial request for Bank Financing:   April 12, 1985
(d) Departure of Reconnaissance Mission:  April 21, 1985
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:        July 9, 1985
(f) Completion of Negotiations:            November 1985
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:         January 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Disbursement
(a) Approval by the State Secretaries of Planning of the relocation
programs and site development plans for groups of 50 houses or
more in the affected municipalities will be a condition of
disbursement of the Bank loan for the relocation component of
the shelter subproject in the respective States (para. 42)
(b) The legal availability of land for relocation b'ousing will be a
condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for thit project
component in the States of Paraiba and Rio Grande do Norte
(para. 42).
(c) Signing by SUDENE and a State of a project agreement
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of disbursement of
the Bank loan in that State (para. 49).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Signing by SUDENE, BNB and CEBRAE of a project agreement
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of disbursement of
the Bank loan against the micro enterprise credit subproject
(para. 51).
B. Other Special Conditions
(a) Credit terms to be offered under the micro enterprise credit
subproject will be adjusted by June 30, 1987 to the terms
offered by existing micro enterprise credit programs in the
Northeast region prevailing at that time (para. 45).
(b) The terms of reference for the consultants required under the
technical assistance and studies subproject for the flood risk
assessment, development of flood plain management plans, and
the provision of technical assistance to municipalities for the
planning and management of reconstruction activities will be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to January 31, 1986, and
the consultants would initiate their work prior to March 1986
(para. 46).
Cc) Preliminary municipal land-use and zoning plans that will
delineate the boundaries of the unprotected 5-yr flood plain to
be preserved as protected open space will be formulated by June
1986 (para 46).
Cd) The amount of counterpart funds in the Project Account will be
maintained at a level that would enable all the project's
financial requirements to be met in a timely manner (para. 64).
(e) The cost of construction materials for the shelter subproject
will be recovered partially from beneficiaries with incomes
equivalent to more than one minimum salary per month (para.
67).



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Table
BRAZIL
r
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Cowarative Emiufall Data for S.lected Haunicipaltles ()
mouthly Rainfall
_ /- IlYCll3u                                                                    iL              -      s   WI8  R  X
mm~~~~~~~~~~~~yn   mi uI
P                            3         532     t            aJ      212          is        n         ae 11S    SU y              3.=   1U50
w z  3Z3                               34      36n523               24           mMs  2J    ah        /        4N3  t12 f    1.l5    n/a
Sam                        135 in              3            S5      44           at       33         r         55    14  it    1.5       20
tU143                                  446     2                                 S61  3  5a0  25                2     156        2.16 t5W
W DIIt                     153         411    2DC           34    35N              Ui    *1          /         73     1J2 V      1.6    1716
.=U                        142 3t0             22           a26    233           as      2D3       aZa         371    T3M        3.5    1135
*            1U4         @1      =2    '      466    242           357     215         3         3      1544'    .E        1310
177        256     161          453    m 137                  12         25        605   1262         1.50.   335
9%.N-A                     173         52      17           175    210           236      104        392       659    1310       t."      15
_aimum                     ISO         364     1M           463     2      ,      4       1          333       67 1573           L22       34O
a         GM      16t          4t     295            SW      26         so2        06   223         2.U3    1140
70        220      141          24      253          ms      205        mis       211    3W          4.05     650
_I~1ZdS                     67a        256     133          3m      214          556      13         1is       414    1037 V     2.55      W5
as        21S      13n          216     22           57      167        417        S36   1475        2.47     762
kuo gna                    Ila         1m       "a          35      225          367      I1a        310       613    153        2.43      901
hm     ko um m              37         277       5          46       1            305     121        a3                we        2.37      534
r         335      1            514    275           mi      24i        mis        2a;    745i       2.37    1155
St        18       152          315     15           3       152         531       15    1403        3.44     6U
67        1s       131 25               2S5 *33               73         130       521    1047       2.51     us
J. SA*                      43          US      34          482      173          301      91        33        407   12           3.110    640
__                                        T                             _          _            _                     -_
A             _ t.. 2.a
jm ad 1imy aqdy
5t~ FIUiZ7 .d 1c cay



NOIEASr URBAN FILOD IE  C "IRg tN  WVE=r
Data on Arm, ikzirdcipalities and Population Affected by Floods a/
AREA __                              PINICIPALr=                                    PO A1MON
STAlES           1             2             3             4                5             6             7             8              9
AREA    AREA AFFECTED                 NO. OF MJNIC.   NO. CF KJNIC.                 IUPUOATICtlN   POPUAT[ON c/       X
Km2    BY FLOOD Kn2        (2/1)       (TOAL)         AFFECEDBY          (5/4)       TOML)    WITHDUi SHEL113    (8/7)
(000)      (000)                                          FLODD                       (000)           (000)
Marariao          324.6         160.6          49.5          132               130            98.4       4097             306           7.4
Pimilu            250.9          66.9          26.7          115               68            59.1        2188             173           7.9
Ceara             146.8          39.3          26.8          142               85            59.9        5380             310           5.7
R.G. do Norte      53.0          20.2          38.1          151               31            20.5        1933             130           6.7
Paraiba            56.4           8.8          15.6          171                35           20.5        2810              27           1.0
Pernsrbuco         98.3          18.6          18.9          167                53            31.7       6243              21            .03
Alagoas            27.6           4.0          14.5           96                12            12.5        2012              18           .03
Sergipe            22.0           3.7          16.8           76                13            17.1       1157              14           1.2
Blhia               -             -              -           336                31             9.2       3085              27            .08
TOM  b/       979.6 b/      322.1 b/       32.9 b/      1386               458            33.0       28905            1026          3.5
a/ The infonrmtion presented is as of July 31, 1985
b/ Thee totals do not inelude the State of Blaa.
cl These fli'res reflect the pqoulation witlbcut shelter at the pesk of the flood period.



BRAZIL: NJR1HEAS URBAN FIUOD RRCrSt    lCla'N FUIEUF
Summry Homing Cast Estiuntes by State
Costs in US$'000
REHABILUTATIN                                  RECONSTRUCTION                                      LaCaiost       UrAL
Est.          "in situ"                Relocation                 Sub-Total            Saditation              Est.
- U a/   Cast    r W           Est. Cat       -1         Est. Cost       -Ill      Est. Cost      Est.Cost      =111     Cost
Maranhao           .22,260    5,113        2,500      1,413          520          840                     2,253          1,004                 8,370
Piaui               15,140    3,416        6,160      3,481          140          232                     3,713           843                  7,970
Ceara                 -         -         11,370      6,416          880        1,430                     7,846            740                 8,586
R.G do Norte         8,200    1,850        5,110      2,890          310          510                     3,400           600                  5,850
Paraiba              4,080      9QD        9,110      5,154          930        1,498                     6,652           360                  7,932
Pemrnanbi            3,460      780        4,890      2,760           -          -                        2,760           140                 3,680
Alagus               2,220      500        3,920      2,213          420         687                      2,900           240                 3,640,,
Sergipe              7,530    1,700        2,480      1,400           -                                   1,400           440                 3,540
Baia                  -         -          4,460      2,520          790        1,280                     3,800           400                 4,200
TOTAL    63,300    14,279       50,000      28,247        4,000       6,477        54,000       34,724         4,765       117,300  53,768
Average Cost
per WU            US$226/                US$565/                  US$1,619/                                             US$80/
a/ mmeling units
I-J



BM2IL: NREASr IBAN FJIOD R        rDl EJECr
SMARY OOST EMXE: RERABILtTICN CF IRAN DfRSWUCRE
Costs in UB$'000
WA=  SUPPLY AND SANITAON                .1RE'               FIOD .TECr1CN            SIS IAIWE             UUKD ThML
No. of No. r'f     DLatrib, Total    No. of Repavirg Total   Dlkes No. of  Total    No. of  Canal  Total
tinic. Head        Network  Cost    Munic. in m2    Cost    in m  Pmp    Cast          Kmic.  in m
Served WOfti/clsN   (m)              Served                           Station          Served
MARANtD               40       32       77,8601/  7,062     56   490,240  4,020    9,650    1    3,762        11   12,510  3,628      18,472
PLAUI                 21       18       4,020    2,592      14   170,840  1,230   10,650    8    5,604       10   10,820  3,476       12,902
AERA                  41       38       8,200      881      38   220,110  1,849    4,541    -    1,762       28   21,650 11,303       15,795
LG. do Nt1             9       37       6,420    1,141       9   134,251  1,018    8,200    2    1,212        9    6,090  1,963        5,334
PARAIM                 6        6       4,800       551      6   158,100  1,279    7,200    2    3,051        2   59,6C0   3,412       8,293
PERNf[X               24        6       3,200      300      21   476,200  4,220    5,150    -    2,180       21   18,730  5,900       12,600
MA=S                   4        4         600       200      4    76,000  1,OOOZ/  7,960    -    3,700        12   23,470 13,660      18,560
SEUPE                  6        6        7,600    2,100      6   186,600    370       -      -      -         6   73,596  2,450        4,920
BAIA                   -        -         -         -        4   582,500  6,990   13,800    2    6,240        6   25,434  7,000       20,230
1TrAL            151       147     112,700   14,827    158 2,494,840 21,976   67,151   15   27,511        84  251,900 52,792      117,106
NLlES
1/  adnly clenitig and disinfect1z
n/ hneludes 2 larp box calarts
e:



BRAZIL: NOR4IEAST UREAN FLOD REPX7flCT4 1'W)JECr
SUHMARY COST EST MMrS: REPAIR AND       I F (rGsiJfl"f FMAI1X11E
AND PUBLIC BIUIINXS
Ccats in S'00O0
SCHOOIS                                   CLINICS                          MICIPAL BUUmEL            GRAND 1UJAL
Rehabilitation    Recontnuction    Total   Rehabilitation   Recorstruction   Total   Rehab.    Reconstr.   Total
I                I              Cost      No.   Total      Nb.   Total   Coat                            Cost
Claaarms  Total   Classrm. Total
MARANHdD           1,230   3,111      -       -      3,111     233    718        8      580    1,298    852        1,429      2,281       6,690
PIAIJI              460      891      -       -        891     256    825        -      -        825    996         692       1,688       3,464
CEARA               390      429      40     442       871      62  1,030        -      -      1,030  1,900        1,387      3,287       5,188
R.G. do NCIIE      1,002   1,670      38     480    2,150      147    635        6      120      755    425         142         567       3,472
PARAIBA              84      200      20     210       410       6    273        4      302      575    302         185        487        1,472
ENAHBU0M             54      360      -       -        360       8    309        2      126      435     -           -           -          795
AIWS                 65      320      -       -        320       3    220        -      -        220    100          -          100         640
S l4RE               48      100      -       -        100       6    100        -      -        100  1,227        1,480      2,707       2,907
BAHT                360      792      40     508    1,300       12    540        -      -        540    150          -          150       1,990
TOTAL          3,693   7,873      138   1,640    9,513     733  4,650       20   1,128    5,778  5,952         5,315     11,267      26,558
us
W4i



- 41 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
MICRO ENTERPRISE CREDIT SUBPROJECT
The objective of this subproject is to help reestablish a basic
level of economic activity in flood-affected urban municipalities in the
Northeast region by providing financial and technical assistance to
flood-damaged micro enterprises in the industrial, commercial and service
sectors. Industrial, commercial and service establishments, mainly in the
States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte and Paraiba, suffered
total losses tentatively estimated at over Cr$217 billion (US$ 31 million
at end - August 1985 exchange rate). Of this amount, the damage to micro
enterprises was about Cr$125 billion (US$18 million). Industrial
establishments which sustained heavy damage included ceramics firms,
saltworks, food and drinks processing plants, rice mills, and wood
processing and furniture shops. Since many of the affected firms were
small, informal enterprises, it was not been possible to date to compile a
complete inventory of affected firms and flood-related losses.
Institutional Arrangements
As with the other subprojects, overall supervision of this
subproject would be under the Interministerial Reconstruction Committee
created by Presidential Decree No. 91.265 of May 24, 1985 [see para. 47].
The funding for this subproject would be channelled through SUDENE and
allocated to BNB and CEBRAE. The BNB would operate the special line of
credit while CEBRAE, through its state agencies (CEAGs), would provide the
necessary technical assistance, under arrangements similar to the existirg
programs of technical and financial assistance to micro enterprises
in the Northeast region. The BNB and CEBRAE have agencies in all the nine
Northeast States. Both have had considerable experience, and have played
leading roles, in promoting small-scale industry development in the
Northeast.
Principal Elements
The subproject would involve: (a) a preliminary assessment by
the CEAGs to identify the flood-damaged firms which require financial
and/or technical assistance, and to appraise their debt servicing
capability; (b) assistance to firms from the CEAGs in developing credit
proposals and in applying for credit; (c) technical assistance through the
CEAGs, to be provided in parallel with financial assistance through BNB, in
such areas as management, production, marketing, financial planning, etc.;
and (d) credit supervision by both BNB and CEAGs.
Financial Assistance
About US$9.5 million or 95% of the total subproject cost wwill be
allocated as financial assistance to flood-damaged micro enterprises on
terms and conditions, the principal ones of which are summarized below.



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Given the lack of complete information on the affected firms at this stage, it
has not been possible to be precise about the potential demand for financial
assistance. BNB and CEBRAE expect, however, that some 2,000 loans could be made
at an average loan size of Cr$31.5 million (US$4,520).
(a)  Beneficiaries:
Flood-damaged industrial, commercial and service establishments in the
municipalities for which a state of emergency has been declared. The
annual gross revenue of industrial firms must not exceed 5,000 times
MVR (Maior Valor de Referencia), or about US$120,000, while that of
commercial or service firms must not exceed 2,000 times MVR, or about
US$48,000. Furthermore, the firms should not be part of economic or
financial groups.
(b) Purpose
Assistance for the rebuilding of inventories and other working capital
and/or repair or replacement of machinery and equipment, civil works
and other fixed capital.
(c) Financial Charges
5% per month, without monetary correction.
(d) Grace Periods and Maturities
For working capital loans: 18 months, including a grace period of 6
months.
For fixed capital and mixed loans: 36 months, including a grace period
of 12 months.
Loans are repayable in monthly instalments after the grace period.
(e) Financing Limits
Up to 100% of the total value of the investment, but not to exceed 400
times MVR (US$9,590) in the case of industrial firms and 160 times
MVR (US$3,840) in the case of commercial and service firms.
(f) Disbursement Schedule
Working capital loans will be disbursed in one instalment. Fixed
loans will be disbursed according to the physical/financial chronogram
of the investment. These loans may be disbursed in up to three
instalments, based on the recommendation of the CEAG in the credit
proposal.



- 43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
Technical Assistance
About USS0.5 million, or 5% of the total subproject cost, will be used
to finance technical assistance complementary to the financial assistance that
flood-damaged micro enterprises would receive under the subproject. The
technical assistance would be the same as that being provided by the CEAGs under
existing micro enterprise development programs. It would include: (a) the
provision of management consultancy services in the areas of organization,
financial accounting, production and sales systems, management information
systems; (b) marketing support; (c) facilitating the access of micro-enterprises
to available technologies, including techniques for improved utilization of
residues and wastes and efficient use of energy; (d) provision of training in
various management and technical areas; and (e) credit supervision.



- 44 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Studies and Consulting Services
Flood Hazard Evaluation of the Major River Basins Affected
1.        The substantial losses experienced in the Northeast area as a
result of successive phenomena of drought and flooding, together with the
significant investments now required for the reconstruction program,
indicate a need to identify areas subject to potential risks. Under this
project, therefore, a study will be undertaken of the risk of flooding in
the nine major river basins (drained by rivers Pindarn, Mearin, Itapecuru,
Parnaiba, Acarau, Jaguaribe, Apodi, Piranhas, Paraiba and Sao Francisco).
The study will provide a preliminary tool to identify potential risks for
development in the area. The study, as proposed by the OAS Regional
Development Program, will be based on an analysis of Landsat images at a
scale of 1:1,000,000 and 1:50,000 using color enhancement of Bands No. 5
and No. 7. The study will be conducted over a three month period by a team
consisting of the group of the San Francisco River Basin Planning Study
(PLANVASF/OAS), SUDENE, and the National Institute of Spatial Research
(INPE). The study will be supported with UNDP funds available for the
reconstruction program.  The average cost of consultants for the study is
US$2,500 per man month.
Professional Services and Budget                            Cost in US$
Flood Hazard Specialist                                        15 000
Edaphologist                                                   32,000
Equipment                                                      38,575
Landsat images/mapping/material                                50,500
Training                                                       31,800
Travel, transportation and per diem                            12,050
Administration                                                 21,050
TOTAL                                                    200,975
Municipal Flood Plain Management
2.        Based on the "flood risk analysis" of the OAS consultants, each
municipality affected by the floods will delineate the unprotected flood
plain to be preserved as open space/recreation and or agriculture within
tlae framework of overall Land-Use and Zoning Plans. The 'flood risk"
analysis w-ll serve as a guide to establish the urbanizable limits.
Special attention will be devoted to the definition of mechanisms (zoning
regulations and land use) to ensure the implementation and enforcement of
the plan. Approximately 25 municipalities will be included in these
studies which should be completed by June, 1986. The Urban Development
Division in SUDENE with consultants and support from INPE and OAS, will
assist the municipalities in the above tasks as well as preparing
enforceable land-use and zoning regulations. The State SEPLAN would
monitor the enforcement with special attention to the flood plain
management. The average cost of consultants is US$1,480 per man month.



- 45 -
ANNEX VIl
Page 2 of 6
Professional Services and Budget                            Cost in US$
Urban Planners                                                  37,000
Land Surveyors                                                 37,000
Expenditures (transportation and per diem)                      15,000
TOTAL                                                        90,000
Economic Impact of Reconstruction
3.        This study will analyze the impact of reconstruction activities
on employment generation. A major objective of the study will be to
explore ways of linking the short-term reconstruction program with
long-term development, and to analyze strategies to avoid a sharp reduction
in employment after the reconstruction program is completed. The study
will be conducted by the Technical Division of SUDENE, specializing in
employment and labor, CEMO. The average cost of consultants is US$1,270
per man/month.
Professional Services and Budget
Cost in US$
2 Economists                                                   36,000
1 Planner                                                      27,000
Expenditures (transportation and per diem)                     16,000
TOTAL                                                     79,000
A Program of Municipal Management Strengthening
4.        This program will address the need to strengthen the managerial
and operational capabilities of the municipalities involved in the
reconstruction project. The program, to be implemented in parallel with
the necessary public works projects, will strengthen the planning,
financial, and operational procedures employed by the municipalities. The
first step of the program will be to improve financial and administrative
capacities of the municipalities during the reconstruction. The second
stage will focus mainly on municipalities that have suffered major damage
and now face a significant reconstruction task and help them in the
following activities.



- 46 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 6
(a)  preparation of municipal action plans, defining investment
priorities for multi-year periods;
(b) organization of financial services, including tax collection and
administration, budgeting, and accounting;
(c) organization of public services such as garbage collection
markets, street maintenance, and others;
(d) programming and execution of public works projects;
(e) preparation of urban legislation and land-use plans, in
particular regarding the design of enforceable controls of
urbanization along the edges of flood plains. This activity will
be supported by special monitoring units set up in the States
Planning Secretariats.
5.        The program will be coordinated by the MDU, through the
Secretariat of Municipal Action and the Secretariat for Urban Development.
It will be implemented by the state Secretaries of Planning with support
from consulting firms.No new units will be formed; instead the emphasis
will be on strengthening existing resources in the states and utilizing
experienced agencies like the Institute of Administration and Management,
the Fundacao Joaquim Nabuco, and others. The basic objective of the
program is to provide on-the-job training for municipal staff, thus
facilitating the absorption and internalization of methods and procedures
to be introduced by the assistance teams.
6.        Given the relatively large number of municipalities involved, a
specific technical assistance method will be implemented. Existing manuals
will be adapted to the requirements of the reconstruction task to assist in
the training of municipal staff and to facilitate the implementation of
administrative procedures. Those manuals will focus on areas of project
preparation, budgeting and control, municipal tax administration,
accounting, capital budgeting, and organization and operation of public
services (garbage collection, markets, slaughterhouses, etc.). These
manuals will serve as guidelines for technical assistance work with
municipalities and state teams will be trained on their use.
7.        The program will be divided in two stages. The first stage will
focus on the organization of HORs in approximately 60 municipalities and
will assist in the coordination of the reconstruction projects and related
tasks. The second stage will provide technical assistance in the
preparation of action plans to approximately 15 municipalities selected
according to population size, extent of damage, and participation in the
Medium-Size Cities Program (only those not participating will be
included). Attached is a preliminary list of municipalities that will
participate in the program.



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 6
Professional Services and Budget
First Stage (Duration approximately 5 months)
Cost in US$
- Senior urban management and
administration experts.
(60 municipalities - 1 p/m/6 munic.)                          37,500
- Planners, urban managers, administrators
to organize MORs.
(5 municipalities - 3 man/month/munic.)                      306,000
- Travel, transportation and per diem.                             40,000
- Preparation and printing manuals.                                40,000
First Stage                   423,500
Second Stage
- Planners , urban managers, experts in
urban finance, programming.
(15 municipalities, 9 man/month/munic.)                      360,000
- Travel, transportation and per diem.                            120,000
- Materials and printing.                                          25,000
- Project Supervision.                                            100,000
Second Stage                  605,000
TOTAL FOR PROGRAM           1,028,500



- 48 -                   ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 6
Preliminary List of Municipalities Included
in the Technical Assistance Program
(First and Second Stages)*
State/Municipality                              State/MunicipalitIes
1.  Estado do Maranhao                          4. Estado do Piaui
Arari                                          Altos
Bacabal                                        Campo Maior
Barra do Corda                                 Floriano
Caxias                                         Parnaiba
Codo                                          Picos
Chapadinha
Coroata                                    5. Estado da Paraiba
Pedreiras
Presidente Dutra                               Cruz do Espirito Santo
Santa Ines                                    Pombal
S. Mateus do Maranhao                          Sousa
S. Joao dos Patos                             Gurabira
Vitoria do Mearim                              Itabina
Alagoa Grande
2. Estado do Rio Grande do Norte
6. Estado de Sergipe
Acu
Areia Branca                                  Propria
Caico
Macau                                      7. Estado de Pernambuco
Nova Cruz
Apodi                                         Belen de Sao Francisco
Afogados da Ingazeira
3.  Estado do Ceara                                Floresta
Ouricuri
Serra Talhada
Aracati                                        Salgueiro
Iguatu
Ico                                        8. Estado de Alagoas
Limoeiro do Norte
Morada Nova                                   Penedo
Russas
Sobral                                     9. Estado da Bahia
Crateus
Quixeramobim                                  Remanso
Quixada                                       S. Sebastiao do Passe
Camocin                                       Senhor do Bonfim
Caninde                                       Santo Amaro
Cascavel                                      Itaberaba
Pacajus                                       Brumado
Taua                                          Xique Xique
*   Only 15 Municipalities will be included in second stage technical
assistance.



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
Low-Cost Sanitation Consulting Services
8.        Low-cost sanitation solutions are an integral part of the
reconstuction project since conventional solutions are not affordable to
the affected population. Currently, low-cost solutions developed by a
a project financed by the UNDP (TAG) have been adopted in the States of Rio
Grande do Norte and Paraiba within the context of the Medium Size Cities
Project, as well as the Recife Metropolitan Region Project. The Special
Public Health Services Foundation, TAG and the technical units in SUDENE
will be in charge of implementing this component in all nine states in
close coordination with the agencies implementing reconstruction of
housing. The average cost of consultants for the technical assistance is
US$ 1,778 per man month.
Professional Services and Budget
M/mo.       Cost in US$
Sanitary Engineers                                                  54,000
Expenditures (transportation and per diem)                          10,000
TOTAL                                  64,000
-Other Studies and Technical Assistance
9.        It is expected that additional needs for consultants and
technical assistance will arise as the project progresses. An amount of
$200,000 is bu!dgeted for other studies



- 50 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST URBAN FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements by State for the Shelter,
Urban Infrastructure and Community Facilities Subprojects I/
1.        The implementation of project components in the nine states will
be conducted by the relevant Municipalities, State Agencies, and Sectoral
Ministries. The project will not require the establishment of a new set of
institutional arrangements; rather, the structure that will be used is
already in existence in the Northeast. In monitoring the operational
structure, aspects concerning the agility, simplicity, and necessary
decentralization of the work are being given priority. Although in recent
years the states have increased their managerial competence, there are
differences among them concerning implementing capacity. Thus, in each
state, operational arrangements to compensate for potential weaknesses are
being adopted. In every state, a key role will be played by the State
Secretariat of Planning, SEPLAN, that will consolidate the proposals from
the xunicipalities, provide assistance to the local agencies in the
analysis of subprojects and in the execution of works, and in conjunction
with the relevant sectoral agencies, coordinate and supervise project
implementation. State and local agencies in the municipalities will bear
primary responsibility for project execution and operation, including
design, contracting, construction, and supervision works. Given the
extension of the area impacted by the floods and multisectoral nature of
the damage, the various components of the project will be executed by a
number of different agencies. Thus, an efficient participation of SUDENE
at the regional level and SEPLAN at the state level are key aspects in
ensuring the coordination of all the activities.
2.        According to needs, in each affected municipality, the office of
reconstruction (MOR) will be staffed with professionals (engineers,
architects, and social workers). The program of reconstruction works in
each municipality will be approved by the Cabinet and will become an
integral component of the Municipality's development program. The MOR,
will be responsible for the management of the project at the local level,
establishing work programs, budgets and accounts, and supervising work
progress and expenditures. SUDENE will be responsible for channelling the
funds for the project to the different executing agencies and verifying
that disbursements on behalf of local executing agencies are authorized by
SEPLAN.
3.        The specific implementation program for the nine states
(summarized in Table I) is as follows:
1/ The institutional arrangements for the micro enterprise credit and
technical assistance and studies subprojects are discussed in Annexes VI
and VII, respectively.



- 51 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5
(i) Maranhao. In Maranhao, as in the other states, the SEPLAN has a
coordinating role. However, in this case, the Secretariat of
Interior has been given a major role in the Reconstruction
Program, sharing with SEPLAN coordination responsibilities. In
addition, the Secretariat of Interior is in charge of the
reconstruction of housing. For this task, it has adopted a
centralized organization, providing technical assistance to the
Municipalities through the mobilization of professional and
technical staff already working in state agencies (e.g.
engineers, architects, social scientists, and social workers).
Ine Secretariat of Interior is also centralizing the purchase of
building materials, conducting a market analysis of materials
available and costs, and distributing them to the
municipalities. In Maranhao the municipalities have a ioro
limited role than it is the case in other States and operate
closely under the State agencies management. The reconstruction
of roads is being executed by the Department of Public Works of
Maranhao (DER); power supply by the Power Supply Company of
Maranhao (CEMAR); and health and education facilities by the
respective State Secretariats. The reconstruction of Sao Luis,
the State capital, is beit-g implemented by the Municipality of
Sao Luis. Due to lack of interest on the part of the Maranhao
Water Company (CAEMA), the rehabilitation of water supply will
not be included in the project. The reconstruction program in
Haranhao lacks at present an integrated framework, and
coordination among the implementing agencies is deficient. A
more active role by SEPLAN-MA and an improved comuLlication
between the State and SUDENE are two aspects that will require
special attention in the implementation of the reconstruction
program in this State.
(i1)  Bahia.  In Bahia, the SEPLAN will also have a coordinating role.
However, since most of the reconstruction works are concentrated
in the Municipality of Salvador, the State has also delegated to
it a coordinating role. This municipality, along with the state
housing agency, COHABICORDEC; the Agency for Coordination of
Social Development, CDS; and SURCAP, will be responsible for
the planning, implementation, and supervision of housing
reconstruction. These agencies will organize technical teams
that will travel to the affected municipalities in the interior
to provide assistance in the planning, execution, and supervision
of works. The Secretariats of Health and Education will be
responsible for the execution of works in their respective
sectors, both in the capital and in the interior. The Company
of Water and Sewerage, EMBASA, will be responsible for the
implementation of the water and sewage component; the Bahia



- 52 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 5
Power Supply Company, COEBA, for the rehabilitation of power
supply; and the State Department of Roads, DERBA, will design,
execute, and supervise road reconstruction.
(iii) Sergipe. In Sergipe, SEPLAN-SER will coordinate the program and
flow of project funds - channelled by the State Secretariat for
Municipal Coordination, SEAM. Planning and implementation of
housing reconstruction will be carried out by the State Housing
Agency, COHAB, which will provide assistance to the affected
municipalities. The State Company of Water Resources, DESO and
COHIDRO, will plan, implement, and supervise the reconstruction
of water supply systems; the Secretariat of Work, Transport, and
Energy, DER-SE, will be responsible for power supply and roads;
and the Secretariats of Health and Education will plan and
execute the works in those two sectors.   Reconstruction in the
State capital will be implemented by the Municipality of Aracaju.
(iv) Alagoas.  In this State, the Governor passed a Decree (No. 6385)
of June 25, 1985, assigning the coordinating role of
reconstruction to the Secretary of Planning, and an implementing
role to the State Secretariats and the Municipalities. A
reconstruction coordinating group is currently being organized by
SEPLAN-AL to provide technical support to the municipalities and
to monitor implementation of the projects. The group consists of
four professionals, two architects, and two engineers.
Reconstruction in the capital is being planned and executed by
the Municipality of Maceio. Rehabilitation of the Water and
Sewage System is being planned and executed by the State Company
of Water and Sewage, CASAL; the road system by the State
Department of Roads, DER; the powpr supply system by the Power
Supply Company of Alagoas, CEAL; and the health and education
systems by the respective Secretariats.
(v) Piaui. In Piaui, SEPLAN-PI is coordinating the program and
plans, with the support of SUDENE, to gradually reduce State
participation in the reconstruction as municipal capabilities to
plan, execute, and supervise the works are strengthened. At
present, in spite of discrepancies between t e municipalities
and the state, the implementation of reconstruction works are
proceeding in an exemplary fashion. Both in the Municipality
of Parnaiba and of Teresina, efficient programs of housing
reconstruction through aided self-help (mutirao) have been
organized by the respective municipalities in coordination
with COHAB. Reconstruction of water and sewage is being planned
and implemented by the Water Company of Piaui, AGESPISA; of roads
by the State Company of Roads; power supply by the Power Supply



- 53 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5
Company, CEPISA; and, health and education by the respective
Secretariats. Reconstruction in the capital is being executed by
the Municipality of Teresina. In view of the efficient housing
reconstruction program in Teresina, plans are underway to
implement a program of dissemination of the experience within the
State and to provide technical assistance to other
.aunicipalities. The Teresina team has a substantial experience
in community development programs and replication of this
experience should be of benefit to other affected areas.
(vi)  Faraiba.  In Paraiba, SEPLAN-PA is coordinating tie
reconstruction program. Planning and implementation of housing
reconstruction is being carried out by FUNSAT (Foundation for
Assistance to Workers) in conjunction with the municipalities.
The State Department of Roads DER-PA and the municipalities are
planning and implementing road reconstruction; the Power Supply
Company of Paraiba, SAELPA, is executing the rehabilitation of
power supply; the Secretariat of Health along with FUSEP (the
State Health Foundation), are responsible for the reconstruction
of health centers; and the Secretariat of Education for the
reconstruction of schools and education facilities. The
Municipality of Joao Pessoa is responsible for the reconstruction
in the capital. The planning and decision-making processes in
Paraiba are lagging behind and need improvement, particularly
conceraing the future of the population in Cruz do Espirito
Santo, a city located in a flood-prone area that was severely
damaged. The problem is currently being analyzed by a Committee
designated by the State that should submit alternatives and
recommendations to the State Government for final decision in
early August. Considering the severity of the problem, this
process requires special attention and rapid action, -with a
reduction in the administrative layers involved in
decision-making.
(vii) Rio Grande do Norte, The projects in Rio Grande do Norte are
coordinated by SEPLAN-RN. Planning and implementation of housing
will be conducted by the State COHAB, and the municipalities;
roads by the State Department of Roads DER-RN; and the municipal
departments of Public Works, power supply by the Power Supply
Company of Rio Grande do Norte, COSERN; and healthi and education
facilities by the respective Secretariats. Reconstruction in the
State capital will be implemented by the Municipality of Natal.
Currently, conflicts exist between the State Govermment and some
of the affected municipalities that will require mechanisms
addressed to resolving discrepancies, facilitating coordination
of the reconstruction program, and ensuring an equitable



- 54 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 5
allocation of project funds. Plans for housing reconstruction
and relocation in Mossoro are not satisfactory and require
special consideration.
(viii) Pernambuco.  The reconstruction program in Pernambuco is
coordinated by SEPLAN-PE. FIAM, the Development Foundation,
along with the municipalities will be responsible for housing
reconstruction; DER, Department of Roads, and the municipalities
for road reconstruction; COMPESA, the Company of Water Suppl, for
the rehabilitation of water; the Secretariat of Education and the
municipality for reconstruction of schools and other education
facilities; and the Secretariat of Health and the Health
Foundation Amaury de Medeiros, FUSAM, for clinics and health
centers. Reconstruction in the State capital will be the
responsibility of the Municipality of Recife.
(ix)  Ceara.  Coordination of the reconstruction program in Ceara is
the responsibility of SEPLAN-CE. The reconstruction of housing
will be the responsibility of SEPLAN with assistance in technical
issues from NUTEC, Foundation for Industrial Development, and the
municipalities. NLTEC is an agency adjunct to the University
with approximately 150 professionals working in different
technical areas (chemistry, geology, and civil engineering). At
present the organization of housing reconstruction requires
support on aspects related to community development that are not
within ,he area of competence of NUTEC. In the project, that
area will be the responsiblity of PROAFA, an agency with a
substantial experience in low-cost housing and community
development. PROAFA now works only in the Fortaleza metropolitan
area, and in order to participate in the reconstruction project
it needs to extend its area of coverage to provide assistance to
the affected municipalities as well. Reconstruction of water and
sanitation will be the responsibility of CAGECE, the Water and
Sanitation Company of Ceara; health and education of the
respective Secretariats; road reconstruction of DER-CE,
Department of Public Roads; and reconstruction of the capital
will be undertaken by the Municipality of Fortaleza.



t   M        1~~~~~~~~~~
X,
4111~~- 5 



UM II
StAZIL
XRDEAr URBAN FLOM                   FRE=
SUSE's ODordinatiln with egonal Offices
SM10i. _9S                               P        D.  ;                         --  TIICAL D9i1SIL
1. Imtitutional Aspects
2. Orgaitzatn alz/
A&Mnistrative Aspects
3. Systea Analysts
~~JF~~TSOR                SUPWflWSO         SJPfWIS3R        SiPUYIOR          WFUI32R         SEW9RSPWISE                         EWISEl
Sm=                                sum               mas
Office            Office           Office          Office Rio         HEqts.                                                                Offif
branhai            PCi Ceara                        C,do Ntrte       Pernwh=             Paraiba*       ALgow*            Sajc               Bia
Papn                                                     t     eiv            f          w                            I    _
* Paraiba, Alagoas aid Serglpe ci, not lsw  regional off is; tluy reeve mpport fran Heaqatr Sn Penrie.



BRAZIL: NOREAST URBAN FLOOD REraIwRrIC4N FRWJECr
Stmary Ccet Eatlmtes by States 1/
(1Bi '000)
All       Total by    % of
Cwrponent             STAIFS       Mbranhaw    Ptaui      Ceara     R.G.Norte   Paralba   Pernamluco   Alagoas   Sergipe   Bahia   Sates        Subproject   TotWa
1. SHEUR                             8,370     7,970      8,586       5,850      7,932       3,680       3,640     3,540    4,200                 53,768     25.8
1.1 RehabiLlitatton               5,113     3,416        -         1,850        920         780         50o      1,700      -                  14,279
1.2 Recostructton                 2,253     3,713      7,846       3,400      6,652       2,760       2,900      1,400    3,800                34,724
1.3 Lew-Ccot Sanitation           1,004       841        740         600        360        IO          240       440       400                 4,765
2. URBAN wRASIRTInCMF.              18,472    12,902    15,795        5,334      8,293      12,600      18,5W      4,920   20,230                117,106     56.1
2,1 Water Supply & Sewage         7,062     2,592        881       1,141         551        300         200      2,100      -                  14,827
2,2 Street                        4,020      1,230     1,849       1,018       1,279      4,220       1,000        370    6,990                21,976
2.3 Flood Protection              3,762     5,604      1,762       1,212      3,051       2,180       3,700        -      6,240                27,511
2,4 Stom Drainap                  3,628     3,476    11,303        1,963       3,412      5,900      13,660      2,450    7,00                52,792
3. ClM4NY FACIILIMES                 6,690     3,464      5,188       3,472       1,472        795         640      2,907    1,990                26,558     12.7
3,1 Sdinols                       3,111       891        871       2,150        410         360         320        100    1,300                 9,513
3.2 Clinics                       1,298       825      1,030         755        575         435         220        100      540                 5,778
3.3 Municipal BudldL,p            2,281      1,688     3,287         567        487          -          100      2,707      150                11,267
4. MCIR    MRMSE                                                                                                                     10,000       10,000      4.8           <
5. SllJllES & TECH. ASSISTANC                                                                                                         1,200        1,200      0.6
5.1 Flood Hazard                                                                                                                    2M            200
5.2 ltmldpal Mmiamzt - TA                                                                                                           926           926
5.3 Lca-Cost Swdtation - TA                                                                                                          74            74
TUML                   33,532    24,276    29,569       14,656     17,697      17,075      22,840    11,367   26,420   11,200      208,632    100.0
%of Project                   16.07      11,64     14,17        7.03        8.48       8.18       10.95       5.45    12.66    5.37           100
I/ Costs based on Augst 1985 prices,



BRAZIL: NLIHE1 STr tRB  FUIOD f     IfLwm cnN FRDJXr                   -
StwoMr Cost E6ttntee by C oet
Civil   Equip-   Sub,    l            Supir-      Base   1byical    9ub,Tot   Price                     Total bv     Z of
Cbcponent                             TA, (I)   Lent   Woia   ent         Total   6 Adntn.  vlisio        Ccut   Canting.       US$      Cwtlng.    Total   &zmpr3ject    Total
1, 9HELS==                                                                                                                                                      53,768        25.8
1.1 Rehablitatkc                   -         -     11,115    -        11,115     556       1,111     12,782     1,277      14,059      220       14,279
1,2 Reaonntrxutcn 2/                -         -     27,028     -       27,028    1,351      2,702    31,081      3,108      34,189      535       34,724
1.3 Lw-Cast Sbiltatlon              -         -      3,711     -        3,711      185        370      4,266      426        4,692       73        4,765
2. MRM INIRAsiERCTueE                                                                                                                                           117,106        56.1
2.1 Uater 9upply S Sewage          172       31    10,773    938       11,914     219         579    12,712      1,887       14,599     228       14,827
2.2 Stint                           -         -     17,924     -       17,924      857        896    19,677      1,960       21,637     339       21,976
2.3 Flood Protection                -         -    20,593   884        21,477    1,006      1,073    23,556    3,531        27,087      424       27,511
2.4 Storm Drainag                   -         -    41,485   500        41,985    2,031      2,098    46,114      5,865       51,979     813       52,792
3. CCHMEIIY PACILXIES                                                                                                                                            26,55B        12.7
3.1 Sdchols                         -         -      7,646    95        7,741      387        387      8,515       851        9,366     147        9,513
3.2 COInlc                          -         -      4,693      9       4,702     235         235      5,172       517        5,689      89        5,778
3.3 HunlclpgI &a l1diqp             -         -      9,168    -         9,168     458         458    10,084      1,009      11,093      174       11,261
4. MICS>wRaRSE                         -         -        -       -          -        -           -      10,000        -        10,000      -        10,000      10,000        4.8       ,,
5. TECH. ASSrIlNE   6 STUMES                                                                                                                                      1,200        0.6       1
5.1 FloodHazard                    200                 -       -          2M0      -           -         200        -          200       -           200
5.2 Hinmipl 1Frau      t - TA      926        -        -       -          926      -           -         926       -           926       -           926
5.3 tor-Cost Sanitation  - TA       74        -        -       -          74       -           -          74       -            74       -            74
1,372      31    154,136 2,426      157,965    7,265      9,909    185,159   20,431       205,590    3,042     208,632    208,632        100
1/ Coats based on August 1985 prices.
1/ Includes relocation costs.



59~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
v  59             (PreLiminary  Varsion;
I. . AZ I 1. -  NORTHEAST URBAN FLCU()D
RECONSTRUCTIcNrF P-R-ECT    I
Sgt.R00 f;,%,_v_                     i              '              I               RIVER VAUYEY FLOCDED AREA$
AN!) MNICIPALITIES
-  7J-.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~AFFECTED.
C & ~~~~~~~~~~~~~QUADR     rTS
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~  -  -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-V4E t-t
"A)                           .F   N I                                    AUNI  E la) PIQUES 18RIG EM WWI
<. - !3~~~~~~~~; _L3L1 5i ~~~~~~~~M A  1 3 2 1 30 6 7 305.7 t I 29 - 5 294.90e
, rA*!                                                                       I     IS  8  54 169690 09 5 169.69C
I          a~~~~~~P            5   52.5 2-      .9
Jr.P    I N                                             53 |24 2 1.679- 4 1P        1 67e
--          _N__46 t3 ;                                                                  2  1_-662 19-4 Z.519
_  _  _           7    -1    -----                                                                     I Joi$   6B   A   3'6  3 t  Z 94 10 2935  Z 1.60C
_    T,'   >'_  >    ?t  1             ATiS            -~~~~~~~~TOT 1.4 2f7 324 1s0m5e73 1-2 978.24C
__ _ C ' }M(   -       IOF .                                       C RD EC   HE



IBRD 1938
4 ~ - l;                                       BRAZIL
( X   ;; '            NORTHEAST FLOOD URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
P A R A           *.s ,
\  ., k    .   -'ws''Si'.la,  s3
P#\ *- sX S F                 F*RTAL-'-
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pw r. 
L~~~~~~~~~~ L
Macau~~~~~~a
0              .      aAed   A  XS. /                   .,   .-NATAL
IT                                                                                I ori r/   2/
nU_r__ -   9                                                  -  .- /-- r w- IKAL
ao__ r__             C J JeqUi___/  .  JAOA
__.B Rs. -    .B I 
} 9.MUE !-I                                                    -1_ R FIUNOSCO h ieJ ol ) TrAoN
. 4 - .        r
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~? e.i. 0r...                              Slt ,aiare A  ,,,,  o.MAIEZ;  IE
GCAj A S S
_ . . ; / 4(RACAtoJU
B A  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IILATR
ir                 -asSIM,rrr 
*   -  /  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __VADOR
44         40.~~~~~~~~~~~~Mkan fom
c.p..". Fft              quii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0C08318



