Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot NO. 7755
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
APRIL 28, 1989
.
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL Wa ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washmiton. C.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Oi,c-Gswaul
0petaImq ivAhtin
April 28, 1909
-MEHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Portugal
Industrial Energy Conservation and
Diversification Project (Loan 2168-PO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Portugal - Industxlial Energy Conservation and Diver-
sification Project (Loan 2168-PO)" prepared by the Industry and Energy Opera-
tions Division, Country Department IV, Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office.
Attacbment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their offieial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banc authorintion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ........ * * .      ........- * **  ..........     ......... * 
Basic Data Sheet ,......... ----. ... -**..........e.           l      i
Highlights *   .................  .............                         v
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.  Introduction  ....   ..................**....*****.**.   1
II.  Project Background and Objectives  .. ..... .....   1
III. Project Implementation, Institutional
Development and Management  .. . ......     ..........   3
IV. Conclusions, Sustainability and
Lessons Learned  ........... . .   ....     .......    7
This document has a restricted dbtribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT GOMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Portugal Industrial
Energy Conservation and Diversification Project supported by Bank Loan
2168-PO. The Loan to the Republic of Pcrtugal, for US$30 million equivalent
was approved on June 3, 1982.
The project was designed to assist Portugal in reducing the energy
consumption of its industries, in diversifying their sources of energy, and in
developing the basis for an etpanded and more effective renewable energy
program. Four components were to be financed under the loan: (i)
Energy-Intensive Industries Component; energy conservation and diversification
studies and investments within putlic and private sector companies operation
in the major energy-intensive industries. (ii) Technical Assistance
Component; an energy survey covering about ten other major energy-consuming
industries involving primarily small- and medium-scale private enterprises,
along with technical assistance in setting up an Energy Conservation Center.
(iii) Leasing Component; a leasing facility earmarked for energy conservation
equipment in predominantly private sector enterprises. (iv) Renewable Energy
Component; studies, pilot projects and te_hnical assistance to accelerate the
development of Portugal's renewable energy resources.
Due to changes in the Government at the time the project was approved
and the need for subsequent governments to obtain parliamentary approval for a
number of administrative agreements under the loan, the signing of the loan
was delayed until March 11, 1983 and thereafter, the loan became effective on
October 6, 1983, 16 months after Board approval. The loan was closed on June
30, 1987, with a disbursed amount of only US$2.6 million.
This PCR has been prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Operations Department IV, EMENA Region, and the Industry,
Trade and Finance Division, Technical Department, Asia Region.  The report is
based on information received during completion mission and from the Staff
Appraisal, President's and Supervision Reports, as well as other documents on
file. The Borrower did not submit a project completion report.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report to
the Borrower and Executing Agency for comments; however, none were received.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETIOh' REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVA\ON
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Item                                   Appraisal           Actual or
Expectation     Current Estimate
Total project cost (US$ r)                       53.7                 52.7
Underrun or overrun (
Loan amount (US$ m)                            30.0                  2.59
Disbursed                                      30.0                  2.59
Cancelled:  11/16/84 US$11.5  m
06/30/87 US$15.91 m                                     27.41
Repaid                                                               2.05 /a
Date physical components completed                 n.a.                 n.a.
Months since loan signing                          n.a.                 n.a.
Proportion completed by above date (2)             n.R.                 n.a.
Proportion of time overrun (X)                     n.a.                 n.a.
Economic rate of return                          15 - 40Z               n.a.
Financial rate of return                           n.a.                 n.a.
Institutional performance                          n.a.                 n.a.
/a As of December 31, 1987.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
As of June 30,                  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(i)  Appraisal Estimate           5.00   14.30  28.10  30.00
(ii)  Actual                               0.44   1.41   2.52   2.59
(iii) (ii) as X of (i)              0.00    3.08   5.02   8.40   8.63



iii
Staff Input
(staff weeks)
Bank FY    1980 1981 1982  1983  1984  1985  i99P  1987  1988  1989  Total
Preappraisal     0.2  5.6  3.2                                                  9.0
Appraisal                  76.8                                                76.8
Negotiations               13.1                                                13.1
Supervision                 1.8   4.6  16.0  19.9   6.0   3.4   1.4   3.5   56.6
Total:           0.2  5.6 94.9   4.6  16.0  19.9   6.0   3.4   1.4   3.5  155.5
Mission Data
Item                 Month/Year        No. of  No. of    No. of       Date of
weeks   persons  man-weeks   Report
Identification         March 1981           2         3          6    04/16/81
Appraisal               August 1981         2         7         14    09/21181
Post Appraisal   I      October 1981        2         5         10    10/30/81
Post Appraisal  II      March 1982          2         2          4    04/16/82
Post Appraisal III      June 1982           1         2          2    07/13/82
Supervision   I         January 1983        1         2          2    02/10/83
Supervision  II         February 190'       1         1          1    03/26/84
Supervision III         December 1984       2         2          4      a/
Supervision  IV         February 1985       2         2          4    05/20/85 b/
Supervision   V         May 1985            1         1          1     n.a.
Supervision  VI         July 1987           1         1          1     n.a.
Completion              July 1988           2         2          4    08/12/88
Total                                                         53
a/ 1st of the two part mission.
b/ A full supervision report, June 10, 1985.



V
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The basic objective of the project was to support Portugal's National
Energy Plan goals, namely to reduce energy consumption in industry, diversify
industrial energy sources, and develop the basis for an expanded and more
effective renewable energy resource program (para. 2.02).
2.       The project was an ambitious and innovative attempt to highlight the
importance of energy conservation and to systematize and help advance the
energy conservation efforts in Portugal. However, a number of factors
adversely affected the implementation of the project:
(a) the project was implemented in a period of political uncertainty
and changes in Governmen-, and a stabilization program which led
to sharp reductions in industrial investment;
(b) the project lending rate was not competitive for subproject
lending (para. 3.02);
(c) the institutional arrangements for the implementing agencies of
the "software" elements of the project were not defined clearly
enough, leading to conflicts among them (para. 4.02); and
(d) in retrospect, the project proved to have too many components for
adequate control.
3.       Although most of the loan was cancelled, the project has nevertheless
had benefits. A number of important subprojects have been implemented,
although without Bank financing. Legislation, regulation and system of
incentives have been introduced (para. 4.03).  Some results of the studies are
gradually being implemented and the creation of a viable Energy Conservation
Center is being actively pursued.  Furthermore, some 80 subsidized energy
conservation and renewable energy source investments in small- and
medium-scale enterprises have received Government support since 1986, with
savings of 150,000 tons of oil equivalent per year. With increased
availability of EEC funds, further progress in this area can be expected.
4.       An overall lesson to be learned is that in this type of project great
emphasis must be given to ensure that an appropriate financial and institu-
tional environment for the project exists. This would imply a relatively
small number of objectives with a straightforward design.



* iv
Other Project Data
Item                                Original                       Actual or
Plan       Revisions     Estimated Actual
First mention in files or timetable                                 1980
Government's app:ication               --            --          May 1980
Negotiations                           --            --          April 22, 1982
Board approval                                       --          June 3, 1982
Loan Agreement date                    --                        March 11, 1983
Effectiveness date             August 1, 1982        --          October 6, 1983
Closing date                   June 30, 1986   June 30, 1987    June 30, 1987
Bor.rower:  Republic of Portugal
Executing Agency: Ministry of Industry and Energy
Fiscal year of Borrower: January 1 to December 31
Follow-on project: None
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (abbreviation):  Escudo (EFc)
Appraisal Year: 1981
Exchange Rate:   US$1.00 = Esc. 65.2
Esc 1.0 = US$0.015



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2168-PO)
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01     This is the Project Completion Report for the Portugal-Industrial
Energy Conservation and Diversification Project for which a Bank Loan in the
amount of US$30 million was approved on June 3, 1982 through the Republic of
Portugal to the DireLtorate General of Energy (DGE), the National Laboratory
for Industrial Engineering and Technology (LNETI), Caixa Geral de DepositGs
(CGD) and Companhia Portuguesa de Locacao Financeira Mobiliaria (LOCAPOR).
The loan allocations for the Technical Assistance and Renewable Energy
Components were channelled directly to DGE and LNETI by the Government while
the loan allocations for the other components were to be onlent through CGD
acting under an agency agreement with the Government. The completion of a
suitable agency agreement between the Government and CGD was to be a condition
of effectiveness.
1.02     Following i i closing of the loan on June 30, 1987, Bank staff
visited Portugal in july 1988 for preparation of this report, which reflects
findings of this mission and the review of project files and related documents.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
2.01     Portugal has limited domestic energy resources, and is, as a result,
highly dependent upon energy imports, a fa:tor which has constrained its
development. To address this issue, Government strategy has been to reduce
energy use through sound demand management, including energy conservation,
substituting cheaper local sources for imported oil, and developing renewable
resources. The National Energy Plan (PEN), which was developed in the early
1980s, has provided the framework for energy planning in Portugal, aimed at
minimizing energy custs, increasing security of energy supply and reducing
import dependence.
2.02     The basic objective of the Project was to assist the country in
meeting the major goals of the PEN, namely to reduce energy consumption in
industry, which (including refineries) accounted for about 502 of total energy
consumption and offered the major short-term opportunity for reducing the oil
import bill; diversify industiral energy sources; and develop the basis for an
expanded and more effective renewable energy program. The PEN had targeted
10-15% energy savings in the economy by 1990, most of which was to be achieved
in the industrial sector. Accordingly, an integrated package of policy and
institution building measures, as well as investments, studies



-2-
and energy audits was prepared. The project scope included priority areas of
this package and included four complementary components designed to support
11 the priority areas:
(i)   Eneray-Intensive Industries Component:  The Project's largest
component was to provide support to large, public and private
energy-users in the refinery, chemical and fertilizers,
cement, and pulp and paper industries in implementing energy
conservation and diversification programs, through the
financing of energy audits, feasibility studies, engineering
services and investments;
4
(ii)   Technical Assistance Component:  This component was to
provide the technical assistance, training and organization
setup repuired to implement effectively the Energy Management
Decree ^ and to promote energy conservation and
diversification throughout the ind'strial sector. It was to
include: (a) a comprehensive energy survey, through
specialized consultancy services, of the Refactories, Tiles
and Bricks, Fine Ceramics, Food and Vegetables Preserves,
Sugar Refining, Dairy, Paper, Textiles, Glass, Brewery and
Fishing Industries to help in the identificati'%n of
energy-saving measures and energy conservation/
diversification investments in those predominantly private
and smaller industrial companies which had limited or no
in-house capabilities to achieve this; and (b) consultancy
services to help set up an Energy Management, Audit and
Training Center under the Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Exports (MIEE).
(iii) Leasing Component: This component was to provide financial
assistance for the establishment of a special leasing
facility for energy-conserving equipment, to be made
available to small aad medium enteiprises by the leasing
company, LOCAPOR; and
(iv)   Renewable Energy Component:  This component was to include:
(a) a comprehensive study of the potential for increasing the
use of wood energy and other renewable energy studies; (b)
strengthening of renewable energy research and development,
including the financing of agreed pilot/demonstration
projects; and (c) technical assistance to enhance the
capabilities of the institutions responsible for planning and
guiding Portugal's renewable energy program.
2.03     The project was first presented to the Bank in 1980 by the then
Secretary of State for Energy, preappraised in April 1981, and appraised in
1/ Issued in 1982, under this decree, about 1000 enterprises with yearly
energy consumption in excess of 1000 tons of fuel oil equivalent would
undertake energy conservation measures including hirizg of energy auditors.



August 1981. A follow-up mission finalized the arraugments for certain
project components in October 1981. The loan was approved on June 3, 1982 but
was not signed until March 11, 1983 and did not become effective until October
6, 1983; a total period of 16 months from Board approval to effectiveness, of
which the major delay of nine months war in loan signature. The most
important cause of the delay was unexpected changes of Government and the
consequent need of caretaker Governments to seek parliamentary approval for
the number of administrative agreements required under the loan, e.g.,
permission had to be obtained from Parliament for loan signature. The total
capital cost of the project was estimated at US$54.1 million, of which US$36.0
million was in foreign exchange; the Bank loan was US$30.0 million.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
A. Changes in Prolect Scope
3.01     At the time of appraisal, the proposed allocation of the Bank loan
was as shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Allocation of Bank Loan at Appraisal
Category                                                      us$ million
1.    Energy Conservation/Diversification
Projects in Selected Enterprises
(Energy Intensive Industries Component)                  18.50
2.    Consultant and Training Services for
Industrial Energy Survey, Renewable
Energy Studies and Projects, and
Institutional Development                                 2.00
3.    Equipment for Renewable Energy iilot
and Demonstration Projects                                1.65
4.    Equipment Financed through Leasing Facility               6.00
*             5.    Front End Fee                                              0.44
6.    Unallocated                                               1.41
Total                                                    WQO
3.02     The Energy Intensive Industries component was aimed at the oil
refining, chemical and fertilizers, cement and pulp and paper industries. The
total cost of the 1982-84 time slice of energy conservation expenditure in
these industries was estimated at US$40 million with US$26 million in foreign
exchange, of which US$20 million was to be financed by the Bank. At the time
of Board presentation, the interest on the Bank loan was 11.62, one of the
highest rates in the Bank's history. (The Seventh Power Project, signed at



-4-
the same time as the Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification
Project, had an interest rate of 7.722.) Virtually simultaneously, various
EEC countries, notably France, offered concessionary terms on loans to
Portuguese industry, with interest rates in the 7-82 range. Also, project
implementation was undertaken in the midst of economic recession which took
its toll of Portuguese industry. Some enterprises became insolvent and
illiquidity became pervasive among industrial companies. Many were therefore
reluctant to take on additional debt exposure. In addition, in 1984 the
Government caused delays by holding up the allocation of local currency funds
for the Project. This situation hampered demand for energy saving investmeats
in general while the high rate of interest on Bank loans encouraged potential
borrowers to utilize other sources of finance. Many of the larger projects
had in fact been appraised by the Bank, and the appraisals proved to be of
considerable utility to those enterprises which, in the event, financed their
projects from other sources. As a consequence of the above factors, although
in all of the targeted subsectors energy conservation projects have been or
arA being undertaken, none were financed by Bank funds.
3.03     One of the subprojects under the Energy Intensive Industries
component wac; for PGP - Petroquimica e Gas de Portugal. The PGP subproject
was in the event financed by the Company's own funds without recourse to loan
financing; the project also underwent a change in scope. At the time of
appraisal, PGP operated three ammonia/towngas plants near Lisbon, using
naphtha as raw material. The original project concept was to import LPG from
Algeria to substitute for the naphtha feedstock. However, negotiations with
the Algerians fell through and it was decided instead to modify the project
scope so that the naphtha used as fuel could be replaced by fuel oiL which was
cheaper in the international market. By the time that the project was
completed, the large ammonia plant at Quimigal (supported under the 1978
Fertilizer Modernization Project) had come on stream while international
prices of nitrogenous fertilizers had fallen considerably. Consequently, it
was not considered worthwhile to run the PGP plant to make ammonia, and
operations were restricted to towngas production. At this juncture, the
Government's internal pricing policy for hydrocarbons came into play. PGP was
charged E22,200 (US$153) per ton of fuel oil and, for naphtha, E25,000
(US$172) per ton when used for ammonia production and a highly subsidized
price of E3,300 (US$23) per ton when used as a feedstock for towngas
production. This provided a powerful incc.itive to PGP to continue to use
naphtha rather than fuel oil as fuel for towngas; as a consequence, the new
facilities to utilize fuel oil are not operating.
3.04     The leasing component of the project has not been successful, with
disbursements through LOCAPOR standing at US$126,000 out of an original
allocation of US$6 million (table 1).
3.05     As a consequence of these shortfalls, the sum of US$11.5 million was
canceled from the loan on November 16, 1984 and a further US$15.91 was
canceled on June 20, 1987, making US$27.41 in all. Thus, only US$2.59 was
actually disbursed out of the original loan of US$30 million. Table 2 shows
the amounts disbursed by categories.



-5-
3.06     It can be seen from Table 2 that, apart from a negligible amount
disbursed on the leasing component, only the components dealing with
organization and promotion of energy conservation (strengthening institvtional
arrangements, establishment of an Energy Conservation Center and carrying out
an energy survey in about 12 industrial sub-sectors) and with renewable energy
bave in fact been implemented.
Table 2: Amounts Actually Disbursed
Category                              Amount Disbursed (US$ Million)
1.     Equipment, materials and spares
for Part A of the Project (Energy
Conservation in Energy Intensive
Industries)                                    0.0
2.     Consultants, enrineering and
related services under Part A of
the Project (Energy, Conservation
in Energy Intensive Industries)                0.0
3.     Consultants, services and training
under Parts B and D of the Project
(Organization and Promotion of Energy
Conservatrion and Renewable Energy
Components)                                     1.785
4.     Equipment under Part C of the Project
(Leasing facility)
5.     Equipment, materials and spares under
Parts B and D of the Project
(Organization and Promotion of Energy
Conservation and Renewable Energy
Components)                                    0.241
6.     Fee                                             0.443
Total:                                          2.595
|          B.  Leasing Facility
3.07     In 1976, the Government initiated a financial incentive scheme
designed to encourage small- and medium-scale enterprises to undertake energy
conservation and diversification investments through cash grants paid out of
the Government's Supply Fund. However, serious difficulties were encountered
in trying to apply the benefits of this incentive scheme to leased equipment,
since the ownership of any asset purcnased using the energy savings incentive
stays with the Government until its benefits are proven.  This meant that the
leasing company could not repossess equipment from a customer defaulting on
the lease terms without involving the Government, a lengthy and costly



-6-
process. The appraisal mission had expected, based on assurances received,
that this problem would be resolved, but this did not happen, possibly due to
changes in the Government.
C. Organization and Promotion of Energy Conservation
3.08     This component consisted of strengthening thc institutional
arrangements for the promotion of energy conservation within DGE and the
Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (IAPMEI),
establishment of an Energy Conservation Center (CCE) within LNETI, and an
Energy Survey in about 12 industrial sub-sectcrs in order to identify
energy-saving potentia! a.nd to recommend energy conservation and
diversification measures and investments.
3.09     As far as strengthening the institutional arrangements are concerned,
IAPMEI has overseen the execution of some 50 energy audits, using resources
made available by the EEC, and has lined up another 60 firms which are now
awaiting audits. However, although the CCE was nominally established three
years ago, only three engineers have been recruited and bureaucratic
difficulties have so far prevented the Center from recruiting adequate staff
and thus from undertaking operations on the scale envisaged. In addition,
some bureaucratic friction was caused between DGE and LNETI because the lines
of responsibility were not clearly drawn and some overlapping of
responsibility occurred. This problem now seems to have been sorted out.
3.10     Consultants (foreign and local) have completed the Energy Survey in
the industrial sectors selected and full documentation has been prepared,
including complete and detailed manuals for each of 11 industrial subsectors
where complete audits were performed and simplified manuals prepared for
another 11 subsectors. These manuals are for the purpose of assisting energy
managers and plant technicians to identify specific energy conservation
measures. In addition to the detailed audit reports, a 5-year energy
rationalization plan was prepared, as well as document models for energy
consumption management regulations, a fuel substitution report, and a report
outlining target specific energy consumptions for each subsector studied.
While the foreign consultants seem to have done a good job within the
constraints imposed by the Terms of Reference (TOR), some communication
difficulties were reported between the foreign consultants and locally
recruited consultants who, in some cases, were insufficiently experienced in
some subsectors. A considerable amount of training of energy audit engineers
has been carried out by the foreign consultants. Technical manuals have been
prepared by the foreign consultants and six seminars held; as a result,
Portuguese consultants are now t&king over the energy audit work. The TOR
produced at appraisal -roved to be too optimistic; they had assumed that an
audit could be completed in 4-5 days, which turned out to be insufficient in
some cases. As a result, funding was inadequate for the consultants to send
out teams a second time to Portugal to complete all the audits. In
retrospect, a smaller number of subsectors should have been selected for the
survey, with more in-depth coverage and a longer period allowed for the audits
themselves. The audits are expected to be useful for the industries in their
future conservation activities; however, as of now, little energy conservation
investment has been undertaken as a direct result of the audits.



-7-
D. Preparation of a Renewable Energy Program
3.11    This component of the Project was to consist of four parts:  (a)
Biomass energy studies and renewable energy studies; (b) Research and
Development (R&D) activities, including pilot and demonstration projects; (c)
preparation of a renewable energy R&D program; and (d) strengthening of the
institutional structure for renewable energy planning and R&D.
3.12    Among the renewable energy studies was a very successful one on the
use and demand for wood residues as an energy source.  The Portuguese
authorities have stated that this study gave them valuable new insights into
the potential for using this resource.  Studies were also made on the
development of small hydro units and on solar ponds.  In addition, the market
potential was studied for solar hot water systems, sind pumps and biogas.
Pilot and demonstration projects included the erection of the first house
conNarsion and gasification of wood residues and a biogas collection and
utilization system. This last project was intended to utilize the energy
obtained from biogas production to heat greenhouses. Unfortunately, the
company carrying out the work went bankrupt; attempts to restart the project
on a less ambitious scale are under way.
IV. CONCLUSIONS, SUSTAINABILITY AND LESSONS LEARNED
4.01    The project represented an ambitious and innovative attempt to
highlight the importance of energy conservation and to systematize and move
forward the energy conservation efforts in Portugal. The focus primarily on
industrial energy conservation was appropriate in view of the generally high
energy costs incurred by Portuguese enterprises.  However, the project was to
be implewented during a period that was affected by political uncertainties
with several changes in Government and by the implementation of an economic
stabilization program that was successful, but at the expense of sharp
reductions in general industrial investments. For this project, the problems
were compounded by the very high Bank lending rate that placed subloans in a
position of competitive disadvantage. In addition, in retrospect, the project
also proved to have too many components for adequate control to be exercised
and effective institutional arrangements to be implemented in the Portuguese
context. As far as the Energy Conservation Survey is concerned, the
experience under the project shows that it would have been better to
concentrate on a much smaller number of subsectors and to have been able to
follow through with investments to implement the audit recommendations.
4.02    The conflicts which arose between the Portuguese institutions involved
in implementing the "software" elements of the project might possibly have
been avoided if more clearly defined institutional arrangements had been in
force when the implementation stage started.
4.03    Although most of the loan amount was cancelled, the project has
nevertheless had important benefits. Thus, a number of the major subprojects
have been implemented, although without Bank financing. Also, some measures
encouraging energy conservation have been introduced, or are being



-8-
contemplated by the Government, including the introduction of legislation on
independent production of electricity, a system of incentives for the rational
use of energy, energy consumption management regulations, promotion by DGE of
a real price policy for energy, regulations on heating, insulation and air
_onditioning of buildings and reformulation of the electric power rate
system.  An increased awareness of the advantages of energy conservation, and
the potential for energy saving through improved housekeeping, has been
instilled in those managements whose enterprises participated in the
multi-industry energy conservation survey.
4.04    For the reasons described above, the major portion of actual Bank
financing went for studies and technical assistance. The implementation of
recommendations took some time; thus, it is only now that the creation of a
viable Energy Conservation Center is being actively pursued. Some 80
subsidized energy cons.rvation and renewable investments in small-and
medium-scale enterpribes have received Government stpport since 1986, with
savings of about 150,000 tons of oil equivalent per year. With the increased
availability of EEC funds further progress in this field can be expected.
4.05    Given the frequent changes of Government which occurred during the
identification and appraisal stages, it was perhaps not surprising that less
than full support for the project was forthcoming from Government officaLs.
It was also realized by Bank staff at the time of appraisal that Bank interest
rates were likely to be uncompetitive with EEC fundr that were beginning to
become available to Portuguese industry at that time, although the term of the
Bank loan was much more attractive to the Portuguese than other commercial
funds. High officials in the Government, as well as the managements of the
major industrial enterprises involved, continued to express interest in
receiving Bank loans through the appraisal and Board presentation stages of
the project, although contact with alternative sources of funds had already
been initiated at that time. The considerable delay in loan signature was
also a major factor in the decision of many project entities to turn to other
sources of finance, since many of the entities were not prepared to defer
their plans until the loan was signed. Also, by the time the loan was signed
interest rates, including the Bank's, had fallen considerably from the 11.6%
fixed rate of the loan, making the funds less attractive than other sources of
finance.
4.06    Perhaps the overall lesson to be learned is that, in this type of
project, great emphasis must be given to ensuring an appropriate financial and
institutional environment for the project to be implemented; often, this would
imply a relatively modest set of objectives with a fairly simple and
straightforward design. In this particular case, the experience shows that a
smaller number of components, with more emphasis on follow-up and
implementation of audit recommendations, might have been desirable.  The
establishment of a local project implementation office has, in other projects
and countries, proved a useful device for ensuring efficient implementation of
multicomponent projects in conjunction with a generally high level of Bank
supervisors.



