Document of               FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3318-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
May 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1981                   April 1982
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
$1 = 65.2 Esc.                      $1  = 72.1 Esc.
1 Esc. = $0.015                       1 Esc. = $0.014
Exchange Rate Used In Staff Appraisal Report
$1 = 65 Esc.
Esc. 1 = $0.0154
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MW      1,000 Kilowatt, megawatt
MWH     Megawatt hour
MTOE    Million tons oil equivalent
TOE     Ton oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS
CCE       Energy Conservation Center, LNETI
CGD       Caixa Geral de Depositos
cif       Cost, Insurance, and Freight
DGE       Directorate General for Energy
EEC       European Economic Community
EFTA      European Free Trade Association
EIB       European Investment Bank
EDP       Electricidade de Portugal, Empresa Publica
IAPMEI    Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LNETI     National Laboratory for Industrial Engineering and Technology
LOCAPOR   Companhia Portuguesa de Locacao Financeira Mobiliara
MIEE      Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports
MLT       Medium- and Long-Term
PETROGAL  Petroleos de Portugal
PGP       Petroquimica e Gas de Portugal, Empresa Publica
.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Portugal
Amount:                      $30 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                       Thirteen years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
Relending Beneficiaries:   Large scale public and private enterprises in the
refinery, chemical and fertilizers, cement, and
pulp and paper subsectors and LOCAPOR, a leasing
company.
Relending Terms:             The Borrower would onlend through the Caixa Geral
de Depositos (i) the equivalent of about $20 mil-
lion on a project-by-project basis to eligible
large-scale industrial enterprises on terms not
to exceed 10 years, and (ii) the equivalent of
about $6 million to LOCAPOR for 13 years includ-
ing four years of grace. The interest rate for
industrial enterprises would be 12.8 percent per
annum, plus the foreign exchange risk on repay-
ment; for those enterprises availing themselves
of exchange risk coverage, including LOCAPOR, the
interest rate would be set to be equal to the
floating interest rate payable on local currency
loans with similar repayment terms, including a
premium paid to the bearer of the foreign ex-
change risk (currently about 26 percent for
industrial enterprises and about 22.5 percent for
financial intermediaries).
Project Description:         The project is designed to assist Portugal in re-
ducing the energy consumption of its industries,
in diversifying their sources of energy, and in
developing the basis for an expanded and more
effective renewable energy program. The project
includes four components: (i) the Energy-Inten-
sive Industries Component for financing of energy
audits, feasibility studies, engineering services
and energy conservation and diversification
investments in selected industries--refinery,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- :1. -
chemical and fertilizer, cement, and pulp and
paper; (ii) the Technical Assistance Component to
help identify energy-saving and diversification
measures and investments in otber industrial sec-
tors and to strengthen institutional capabilities
for energy conservation; (iii) the Leasing Com-
ponent for establishing a financial leasing
facility for energy-conserving equipment to be
made available to small- and medium-scale indus-
trial enterprises; and (iv) the Renewable Energy
Component for a comprehensive survey of the
potential for increasing the use of wood energy
and strengthening of research and development
programs, including the financing of pilot/demon-
stration projects.
The major benefits of the project would be signi-
ficant energy savings and high economic returns
in energy-intensive industries, identification
and promotion of technically feasible and econom-
ically attractive energy conservation and diver-
sification measures in otber industries and the
upgrading of related Government-sponsored ser-
vices. The leasing component would encourage the
implementation of energy conservation investments
through a new and particularly suitable equipment
financing mechanism not adequately developed in
Portugal. The renewable energy component would
help establish the foundations for a renewable
energy program. The technical and financial
risks are considered moderate as the project is
dealing with existing plants and commercially
proven technology, which represent relatively
limited investment programs at the enterprise
level and which do not entail any additional mar-
ket, financial or environmental risks. The risks
associated with the introduction of leasing have
been reduced by the association of proven finan-
cial, managerial and technical resources in the
leasing company's ownership. The main risks are
those deriving from the integrated nature of the
package of investment, studies and financial and
technical assistance; satisfactory arrangements
to ensure coordination are already in place
through the existing project coordinating body.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Energy Intensive Industries Component              14.0      26.0     40.0
II.  Technical Assistance Component a/                   0.3       1.7       2.0
III.  Leasing Component                                   3.2       6.0       9.2
IV.  Renewable Energy Component a/                       0.6       1.9       2.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 18.1     35.6      53.7
V.    Front End Fee                                        -        0.4       0.4
TOTAL                              18.1     36.0      54.1
Financing Plan:
$ Million Equivalent
Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD Loan                                    -            30.0          30.0
Bilateral and Commercial Credits,
Equity and Internal Cash Generation
LOCAPOR                                 3.2             -            3.2
Industries                             14.0            6.0          20.0
Government                                  0.9           _               0.9
TOTAL FINANCING           18.1           36.0          54.1
Estimated Disbursements:
$ Million Equivalent
FY1983   FY1984   FY1985   FY1986
Annual                 5.0      9.3      13.8       1.9
Cumulative            5.0      14.3      28.1      30.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15-40 percent on typical investments in selected
energy-intensive industries; similar returns for
equipment financed under leasing component.
Appraisal Report:          No. 3837-PO, dated April 30, 1982
a/ Includes physical contingencies of about 10 percent.



I
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$3O million, in-
cluding capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an industrial energy
conservation and diversification project. The loan would have a term of 13
years, including 4 years grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
About $20 million equivalent of the loan would be onlent by the Government
on a project-by-project basis to large-scale industrial enterprises for eli-
gible energy conservation and diversification subprojects on terms not to
exceed 10 years, with interest rates at 12.8 percent per annum for those
assuming the foreign exchange risk on repayment; those enterprises availing
themselves of the foreign exchange risk coverage would pay an interest rate
equal to the floating interest rate payable on local currency loans with
similar repayment terms, including the premium paid to the bearer of the
exchange risk, currently 26 percent per annum. About $6 million equivalent
of the loan would be onlent by the Government to LOCAPOR for 13 years, in-
cluding 4 years grace; interest would be 22.5 percent per annum, the same as
applied to financial intermediaries lending to small- and medium-scale
enterprises which do not bear the foreign exchange risk on repayment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, entitled "Recent Economic Developments
and the Medium-Term Perspective with Special Reference to Resource Mobiliza-
tion," (No. 3365-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on Septem-
ber 19, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An economic
mission has recently visited Portugal and an updating report is being pre-
pared.
3.        With the revolution of April 1974, Portugal's economy was radi-
cally transformed. The banks, insurance companies, power companies, major
transportation agencies and the large industrial groups were nationalized.
A comprebensive land reform was carried out in the central and southern
parts of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers'
rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put
on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and
social security benefits were increased. Real wages and private consumption
increased rapidly in the period to 1977, resulting in a significant improve-
ment in income distribution. The Government also increased public expendi-
tures and deficits (necessitating rapid monetary expansion) to meet the
expectations of improved living standards which had been generated by the
revolution. The general circumstances of the revolutionary period and its



- 2 -
aftermath also generated a serious deterioration in the profitability and
general financial position of the private sector, and a significant decline
in foreign reserves.
4.        The difficulties facing the Portuguese economy were compounded in
the immediate post-revolution period by three major factors: (i) the drama-
tic oil price increase of end-1973 which resulted in a sharp deterioration
in Portugal's terms of trade; (ii) the return of more than half a million
Portuguese from the overseas colonies to the mainland; and (iii) the onset
of recession in Europe with reduced demand for Portuguese emigrant labor,
export commodities and tourist facilities. The combination of these exter-
nal factors with the structural changes brought about by the revolution
resulted initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments. The
current surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large deficit in 1975,
which increased to $1,500 million by 1977. Thus, the period 1974-77 saw
Portugal fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private
consumption and meeting the investment needs of the economy in the face of
continuing adverse external conditions. By 1977, real consumption per
capita had increased by about 10 percent over the 1973 level, both the
external current account and the domestic budget were substantially in defi-
cit, and the level of inflation was 27 percent, while open unemployment was
over 300,000 (i.e., about 8 percent of the resident labor force).
5.        A program of austerity measures, including currency devaluations,
was implemented in 1976 and 1977 but its impact was reduced by the continued
rapid expansion of credit, mainly to finance the Government deficit. In
early May 1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of
payments deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken
to stabilize the economic situation included: (i) a 6.5 percent devaluation
of the escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the
escudo at a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point
increase in the rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and
lending rates; (iii) ceilings on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase
in taxes; (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for
water, electricity, gas, transportation and essential food products; and
(vi) continued restrictions on allowable wage rate increases. The measures
were effective in reducing the balance of payments current account deficit
from $1,500 million in 1977 to $800 million in 1978. This improvement was
associated with a substantial decline in real wages and a reduction in the
inflation rate to 22 percent. The continuation of similar policies in 1979
produced even more dramatic results with the balance of payments' deficit
virtually at zero, export volumes rising by 27 percent and import volumes
rising at only about 8 percent. Nonetheless, the trade deficit increased
slightly as a consequence of the substantial oil price increase during the
year and a massive 60 percent increase in migrants' remittances was the ele-
ment producing the overall balance of payments improvement. In early 1980,
the focus of policy shifted to control of inflation and a six percent reval-
uation of the escudo was implemented in February. Together with continued
but weaker credit restraint and price controls, this helped to bring the



inflation rate to a level of about 17 percent. The crawling-peg devaluation
was continued at 0.75 percent per month to June 1980 and was tbereafter
reduced to 0.5 percent per month. These changes combined with a continuing
large public deficit, emerging wage pressures and the deepening recession in
Europe produced a sharp deterioration in the external trade performance in
1980 and especially in 1981. This trend was exacerbated by two successive
years of severe drought which resulted in increased agricultural and
electricity imports.
6.        The policies pursued during the past three years, although they
have generated an average growtb rate of about 4 percent from 1978-1980,
have not made any real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent). The
emphasis on short-run stabilization has also delayed the formulation of
policies to address the serious structural problems which Portugal faces.
Particularly important is the large dependence on imported energy; the ris-
ing dependence on food imports; a backward agricultural sector; an indus-
trial sector, parts of which still require heavy protection in comparison
with the EEC; an ill-defined attitude to public enterprises; and a weak tax
structure. Despite rising confidence in Portugal's economic and political
stability, private investment has been very disappointing in recent years
(it even fell in real terms in 1979), and has certainly not been adequate
given the very considerable investment needs of the economy.
A Growtb Strategy for the Eighties
7.        The recent sharp deterioration in the balance of payments suggest
that stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy. Growth rates on the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum which were
earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with the main-
tenance of reasonable stability in the balance of payments over the next two
to three years, but may be possible thereafter. However, stabilization
policies will need to be pursued in a framework wbich is consistent with
efforts to restructure industry to maximize the benefits of EEC entry, to
encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the generally
weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture. If reasonable
growth rates are to be achieved in spite of oil, food and other structural
dependencies on the import side, Portugal will certainly require a rate of
growth of visible exports significantly higher than the growth of world
trade. Portugal will also need to retain policies which can maintain
migrants' remittances at a high level. This will require careful balancing
on the part of the Government since the measures which could ensure a rea-
sonable balance of payments position may, at the same time, discourage
investment and slow the rate of growth.
8.        Certainly the position defined above will require Portugal to
fully exploit its potential comparative advantages vis-a-vis the EEC, which
the country expects to join in the mid-eighties. In the industrial sector
this will mean emphasis on labor-intensive industries, both light indus-
tries, such as textiles and footwear, and heavier items, including electri-



- 4 -
cal machinery and transport equipment. This will imply a substantial, and
possibly painful, rehabilitation process in some cases (e.g., textiles).
Although Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the
development of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be
pursued wbenever adequate rates of return can be demonstrated. In the case
of steel, Portugal is in the process of expanding capacity in areas such as
non-flat products where capacity elsewhere in the EEC is unlikely to be
expanded. Portugal's industrial strategy is also complicated by the fact
that its wage advantage will be eroded and that intensified competition from
the Far East will become a problem for some products in which Portugal may
have a comparative advantage for the moment. Hopefully, the necessary ad-
justment will be assisted by finance, advice and trading concessions from
the existing members of the EEC.
9.        In the case of agriculture, the acceptance of EEC policy will
raise prices to consumers but, at the same time, could cause a net flow of
resources into agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability
of various agricultural commodities. Portugal needs to respond to this
opportunity and thereby reduce the very large trade deficit in agricultural
commodities. The necessary response is to modernize and increase investment
in those commodities sucb as fruits, off-season vegetables and, possibly,
vegetable oils where the climate and early season confer a strong compara-
tive advantage. Modernization in other more traditional agricultural crops
is desirable even in the absence of EEC entry, but would also help to reduce
the costs to the economy of EEC membership.
10.       The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in
1976, in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not
implemented. Work has been underway for some time to launch the preparation
of a medium-term public investment program. The challenge for Portuguese
planners and policymakers is to be highly selective in its program of public
investment so that this can make a useful contribution to its foreign ex-
change needs at an acceptable cost in terms of scarce budgetary and other
resources. In addition, it is extremely important to seek new institutional
arrangements to streamline decision making as well as project preparation,
implementation and supervision. As regards public enterprises themselves,
there is a need to define a medium-term strategy which will differentiate
between their social and economic objectives. For the moment, the develop-
ment of these enterprises and external lending to them is significantly
hindered by the fact that the economic cost of meeting social objectives is
sometimes not taken into account. Subsidy, pricing and other policies to-
wards public enterprises should be made in the light of a clear understand-
ing of their consequences, with adequate and explicit provision made for any
divergence.
II.       The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment of the period. The Government has
recently established an integrated scheme of incentives for private invest-



ment and has improved arrangements for compensating owners of assets
nationalized in 1974/75. However, private investment is still hindered by
several factors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still
relatively low by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the
near future. Credit availability to the private sector is restricted by the
continuing large public sector borrowing requirement, althougb in the ab-
sence of strong private sector demand, this has not been a major constraint
in the past. Potential investors have considered current interest rates too
high and the new investment incentive scheme is essentially designed to
mitigate the perceived high cost of capital for selected investments. Under
the scheme, economic viability is a prerequisite for larger investments and
an important factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the new
scheme provides only modest additional encouragement to exports and its
choice of sectoral priorities will require monitoring. However, the very
large increase in exports in 1979 indicates the potential of the private
sector to make substantial gains in major markets.
12.       Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be expanded
further and focussed on production-oriented investments. The mechanism and
structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be rationalized to provide
appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While increased on-farm
investments are necessary, little will be achieved without substantial
advances on the technical side as well. The extension services of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries need to be upgraded, and
their links to research and to the farmers need to be strengthened. Recent
efforts to train agricultural manpower and the farmers themselves need to be
intensified.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to
Portugal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments sup-
port and for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de
Portugal has obtained sbort-term loans for balance of payments support from
the Bank for International Settlements and European central banks. In
addition, as of end 1981, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to
Portugal amounted to about $60 million and a new IMF facility was under dis-
cussion. The EEC, European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free Trade
Association (EFTA), as well as bilateral agencies have committed significant
funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term pro-
jects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II. Starting in 1977,
Portugal received $750 million in medium- and long-term (MLT) commitments as
balance of payments support from 14 countries, with the US, Germany and
Japan being the main contributors. In addition, Banco do Portugal converted
about half of its $1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium- and
long-term debt. In large part because of Portugal's gold reserve, the
Government and major banks and companies are able to attract medium-term
loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent



- 6 -
terms provided eight years repayment with interest rates as low as 0.4 per-
cent over LIBOR. The Government's efforts to stimulate direct foreign in-
vestment have resulted in a $600 million commitment by Renault and the
promise of other substantial investments. Portugal will however continue to
require sizeable external inflows for the investment necessary to restruc-
ture its economy and finance its large external deficits. The multilateral
lenders, and in particular, the World Bank and the EEC/EIB, will have to
continue to play a vital role in helping Portugal meet its capital require-
ments. In this respect, the pre-accession aid proposed by the European Com-
mission of about 275 million units of account will play a useful part.
14.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $2.2 billion at end 1977 to
about $5.1 billion at end 1980. Service payments on this debt rose from 5.9
percent of exports of goods and services plus workers' remittances in 1977
to 13.6 percent in 1980. These figures include the portion of Banco de
Portugal debt held in MLT form, which amounted to $346 million in 1977
and $1,035 million in 1979. In addition, the 1980 estimate of private
non-guaranteed MLT debt was t297 million. This gives a total outstanding
debt disbursed of about $5.4 billion as of end 1980. Undisbursed debt
amounted to a further $800 million. Although Portugal's total debt out-
standing still remains at manageable levels, it needs careful monitoring,
especially in view of the rapid buildup of short-term debt in 1980 and
1981. Preliminary figures for end-1981 from the Banco de Portugal suggests
a total outstanding debt of $10 billion-$12 billion (including $3.4 billion
of short-term debt). The debt service ratio (MLT only) is expected to rise
to about 20 percent by the middle of the decade. Given Portugal's gold
reserves of about 22 million troy ounces, this seems a large but acceptable
burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
15.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Government
priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three ther-
mal and two hydropower projects, which were successfully completed. The
events of the more recent past have created special problems; the transition
to an open political system has revealed social and economic weaknesses
which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The Bank has re-
sponded to Portugal's needs by identifying, preparing and financing pro-
jects, and through economic and sector work.
16.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's twentieth project in
Portugal, the fifteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank
operations since 1976 involved a power project, a petroleum exploration pro-
ject, two highway projects, three industrial finance projects, two education
projects, as well as one project each for water supply, agricultural and
fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer modernization, and mechanical indus-



tries. Total Bank financial assistance since the resumption of lending
amounts to $634 million. Lack of experience with Bank procedures has caused
delays in earlier projects. However, this problem has been substantially
reduced by the increasing familiarity of the administration with these pro-
cedures and the resolve to initiate procurement preparation as early as
possible.
17.       As of March 31, 1982, total disbursements from loans made since
the resumption of lending in 1976 amounted to nearly $160 million. The 1976
Power loan and the 1977 First Banco de Fomento Nacional loan are fully dis-
bursed and closed, and the other 1977 loan, Highways I, is substantially
committed. Looking at the 1978-1981 loans, projects involving direct lend-
ing to industry are progressing well and disbursing witbout major problems,
and development finance company loans are proceeding satisfactorily. How-
ever, projects directly implemented by the administration, or largely con-
trolled by it, are slow in execution and disbursement. The main reasons for
this are administrative weaknesses, such as insufficient coordination, as
well as limited experience in project preparation, implementation and super-
vision. As the result of a thorough bi-annual country implementation
review, in close consultation with the implementing agencies and the Central
Government authorities, some of these problems have been attenuated; otbers
are currently being addressed by the Portuguese authorities and by adjusting
institutional components in project design. These across-the-board reviews
have proved useful and should lead to improvements over time. Portugal's
record of disbursements has lagged behind that of other countries in the
Region. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and the IFC
investment as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing pro-
jects.
18.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have provided
a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of the
water supply (together with WHO), education and agriculture sectors and of
manufacturing export industries were carried out and discussed with the
Government, and the corresponding reports distributed to the Executive
Directors. As a major problem, unemployment has received particular atten-
tion; a report which sums up the results of a Bank survey was distributed to
the Executive Directors in FY79. A survey of the proposed public
medium-term investments was carried out in June 1979 and was distributed to
the Executive Directors in FY81. This report has served the Government in
establishing investment priorities. A draft report on Policies for Indus-
trial Restructuring is expected to be discussed with the Government shortly.
19.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned
above, agriculture and industry have been identified as areas of concentra-
tion for Bank lending. The importance of developing the industrial sector
cannot be overemphasized since this sector is expected to be the main force
in the Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, continue the export



- 8 -
expansion which started in 1978, and to maintain competitiveness in the EEC
in the years abead. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are
structural reform, export promotion, employment creation (or preservation)
and promoting energy-saving investments. Structural improvements in
industry are being introduced through projects financed in part by Bank
loans in the fertilizer and mechanical industry subsectors, and are being
studied for the textile subsector with Bank support and advice. The FY79
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry (SMI) Development loan is providing
improved financial and technical support for SMI enterprises. The FY81
Second Banco de Fomento Nacional loan supports medium-sized projects above
the SMI range. To address the needs of the agricultural sector, the Bank
has assisted the Government in creating an agricultural credit institution
and in FY80 approved a loan for a forestry project; negotiations for a loan
for the Tras-os-Montes rural development project have been substantially
completed and will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly. The
trained manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors,
which constitute a serious bottleneck, particularly in agriculture, are
being addressed through the FY78 and the FY80 Education loans.
20.       The stabilization policies of 1977-1979 (para. 5), while initially
contributing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permit-
ted implementation of the development programs now urgently needed in many
sectors. Heavy dependence on imported oil, a rapidly increasing oil bill,
two years of drought and a recession in Portugal's export markets have again
worsened the balance of payments outlook.   If the restructuring needs of
the economy are to be tackled seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the
social sectors corrected, long-term external assistance will be needed to
help Portugal. It is the World Bank's objective to contribute to these
efforts and to provide advice on institutional reforms which are crucial for
Portugal's long-term economic objectives.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
21.       Portugal's domestic energy resources currently provide only
about 28 percent of its total primary energy supply and consist of hydro-
power, uranium, and small deposits of poor quality coal. Hydropower con-
tributes about 20 percent of the nation's energy needs; of its total poten-
tial of about 22,000 MWh, 56 percent has been developed, is under construc-
tion, or is being planned and another 10 percent will be added through
expansion of existing sites. Proven recoverable reserves of poor quality
coal are estimated at only 5 million tons, and lignite reserves are esti-
mated at about 33 million tons. Uranium reserves are estimated at 8,200
tons in concentrates, which would suffice to provide fuel for three 1,000 MW
reactors for about 25 years. However, the decision to construct nuclear
plants in Portugal is yet to be taken. Portugal has good potential with
regard to renewable resources such as biomass, particularly wood, and solar
and wind energy. At present, however, only wood serves as a significant



- 9 -
source of energy, accounting for about 5 percent of total energy consump-
tion. Production and consumption of fuelwood could be significantly in-
creased, considering Portugal's existing and potential forestry resources,
botb through better use of forest residues and large-scale afforestation
programs.
Energy Supply and Consumption
22.       Portugal's energy system was developed at a time when it had
abundant access to cbeap imported oil; its electricity generation system as
well as its energy-intensive industries launched in the 1960s reflect this.
Portugal is therefore heavily dependent on imported crude oil and petroleum
products for meeting its demand for energy. In 1980, 77 percent of the
total commercial energy supply was imported, primarily in the form of crude
oil, petroleum products and some coal. Between 1973 and 1980, commercial
energy consumption increased by about 5 percent per year, while the oil im-
port bill increased from $100 million to about $2 billion. Per capita
energy consumption increased by more than 50 percent in the 1970s; nonetbe-
less, it remained relatively low at about 1.2 tons of oil equivalent (TOE),
compared with 3 TOE for the industrial market economies, but considerably
above the middle income developing country average of 0.6 TOE. Total energy
consumption in 1980 amounted to 8.1 million tons oil equivalent (MTOE), of
wbich industry (including refineries) accounted for about 50 percent, road
transport for 28 percent, the power sector for 8 percent, and the remaining
sectors for 14 percent.
Energy Pricing
23.       The Government sets both retail and ex-refinery prices for major
petroleum products. Ex-refinery prices are based on an import parity system
to encourage efficient domestic refinery operations. Retail prices of in-
dividual products bave a two-tiered structure as is the pattern in many
other middle-income developing countries. Petroleum products for private
use, such as gasoline, are taxed heavily, while petroleum products used in
key economic sectors sucb as industry and power, as well as in public trans-
portation, are taxed less or, in some cases in the past, even subsidized.
Anotber objective of the Government's pricing policy is to generate substan-
tial tax revenues from petroleum products whicb are then channeled tbrougb
the Fundo de Abastecimento (Supply Fund) to subsidize key agricultural and
otber commodities.
24.       Retail prices of gasoline have historically been among the highest
in Europe, and their contribution to sector revenues is substantial. As of
January 1, 1982, the Government again raised the prices of petroleum pro-
ducts, and now retail prices of all petroleum products are above the cif
import price range. The price of electricity was raised by about 35 percent
as well. In addition, the Government is considering revising its system for
setting ex-refinery prices so as to better account for the financial costs
associated with imports of crude oil.



- 10 -
Energy Plan and Policies
25.       In response to the impact of rising petroleum prices and petroleum
product imports on the balance of payments, the Government is formulating a
comprehensive energy policy for the country. A detailed model of the energy
sector, constructed by a joint team of Portuguese specialists and staff of
the U.S. Department of Energy and being refined by the Directorate General
of Energy (DGE), has provided two basic energy supply and demand scenarios
as a basis for the draft National Energy Plan. The major goals and priori-
ties of the proposed National Energy Plan are to:
(a) develop economic domestic energy resources, including
petroleum exploration and renewable energy development,
particularly wood and solar energy;
(b) diversify the sources of primary energy, particularly by
replacing petroleum by otber, less expensive, energy sup-
plies. It is planned to increase coal imports for use in
industry and in power generation. The economic and tecb-
nical viability of importing natural gas is also being
studied, as is the development of nuclear power based on
indigenous uranium;
(c) promote energy conservation measures tbroughout the
economy. The Government's overall target implies 10-15
percent energy savings across the board in the economy by
1990; and
(d) continue to price energy products correctly, to promote
more efficient use of energy and domestic resource
development.
Sector Organization
26.       The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports (MIEE) has jurisdic-
tion over most energy-related matters. The DGE at MIEE, is responsible for
the formulation and implementation of energy policies, preparation of energy
forecasts, review and coordination of investment plans, price setting, and
the establishment of energy conservation measures. DGE also oversees the
activities of the three state-owned companies, Petroleos de Portugal
(PETROGAL), Petroquimica e Gas de Portugal (PGP), Electricidade de Portugal
(EDP), and all other power distributors currently operating in Portugal.
PETROGAL is responsible for exploration for oil and gas, and imports,
refines, distributes and markets about 80 percent of the petroleum products
consumed. PGP manufactures town gas which it sells at bulk rates to EDP.
The power subsector presently consists of EDP and 102 municipal and private
undertakings.   EDP is responsible for all power generation and transmission,
with current generation capacity of about 4182 MWH, made up of about 60 per-
cent hydro and 40 percent tbermal. EDP distributes about 73 percent of all



- 11 -
publicly-sold electricity, while the municipal and private undertakings dis-
tribute the remaining 27 percent. About 88 percent of all households are
electrified. Botb DGE and the National Laboratory for Industrial Engineering
and Technology (LNETI) are involved in renewable energy development.
Energy Conservation in Industry
27.       Industry, including refineries, accounts for about 50 percent of
total energy consumption. Four industries--refineries, chemicals and fertil-
izers, cement and pulp and paper--account for about two-thirds of the fuel
oil, one-third of the electricity, and virtually all of the gas and naptha
used in industry. Most of the production in these industries comes from a
small number of large scale enterprises. With the recent increases in energy
and feedstock prices, most of the large-scale energy-intensive enterprises
have initiated energy audits of their plants and facilities. Studies for the
refinery industry have identified ways of significantly reducing fuel
requirements through additions or modifications of equipment, optimizing pro-
duct mix and capacity utilization, and improved operating and monitoring
practices. For the chemical and fertilizer industry, the first company study
recommended rehabilitation of electrolysers, better use of heat recovery
techniques, modifications in the acid production process, and a switchover
from naphtha to less costly fuel oil for partial oxydation. Another study
recommended switchover from naptha to ethane/propane/butane gas as the feed-
stock for towngas. In the cement subsector, a switchover from the wet kiln
process to the dry process would save about 60 to 70 percent of the energy
used per ton and studies are underway to investigate the feasibility of con-
verting to lower cost coal. The potential for using wood residues or fuel in
the pulp and paper industry has only partially been tapped. The potential
for energy savings in these four major energy-intensive industries ranges
from 10-20 percent, depending on the industry. There are also energy savings
potentials of similar magnitude in other industrial subsectors as well, such
as textiles, ceramics, glass, and food processing. The financial rates of
return to the enterprises are quite attractive and economic rates of return
have been estimated to be from 15 to 40 percent; similar high rates of return
are expected for such investments in other industries.
Energy Conservation and Diversification
28.       There are three major aspects whose combined, rather than indivi-
dual, effects determine the success of national industrial energy conserva-
tion and diversification programs.  First, industrial enterprises must
receive correct pricing signals for fuel and power usage. Second, financial
assistance should be made available at terms attractive enough for energy
saving investments to take priority within the enterprises' investment pro-
grams. Third, enterprises need to undertake systematic energy audits of
their facilities to identify economic energy conservation and diversification
investment opportunities and improvements in operating practices leading to
energy saving. The Government has already taken major steps in all three
areas. The proposed project seeks to reinforce and expand these efforts.



- 12 -
29.       Average domestic petroleum prices are relatively high and, for most
petroleum products, provide adequate incentives for conservation; with the
recent price increases, fuel oil and diesel oil prices are now above cif im-
port prices. Electricity tariffs have been increased steadily, reaching
about 76 percent of the marginal cost of supply and are expected to continue
to increase so as to generate funds to help finance the needed investment in
power facilities.
30.       In 1976, the Government initiated a financial incentive scheme
designed to encourage small- and medium-scale enterprises to undertake con-
servation and diversification investments through cash grants paid from the
Supply Fund. At first the scheme provided a grant of up to 100 percent, but
this has been reduced and now is set at a maximum of 30 percent, with further
reductions planned (para. 38). To be eligible, (i) the investment must have
a payback period of up to 6 years, depending on the type of equipment, and
have a satisfactory technoeconomic study; (ii) public bidding procedures must
have been followed in selection of suppliers/contractors; and (iii) a bank
guarantee must have been obtained to ensure financing of the full invest-
ment. The maximum grant cannot exceed the value of energy consumed in 12
months by the equipment whose modification or replacement is the subject of
the application. So far about 175 projects bave been supported under the
scheme, which are estimated to have led to energy savings amounting to about
2 to 3 percent of industrial energy consumption, or about 1 percent of total
energy consumption. This scheme has shown good success, but additional
efforts need to be made to support an industry-wide program, including the
large scale industries, and to broaden the scope to also promote better
housekeeping and energy management practices which can have a major impact on
energy conservation while not requiring significant investments.
31.       The Government has recognized the need for a more systematic energy
auditing effort within the industrial sector, and enacted in January 1982 an
Energy Management Decree. Under this Decree, about 1,000 enterprises with
yearly energy consumption levels in excess of 1,000 tons of fuel oil equiva-
lent will have to engage the services of independent energy auditors to pre-
pare a comprehensive energy audit and a five-year energy conservation plan
for each enterprise. Through this plan, each enterprise will seek to achieve
pre-determined subsector energy consumption targets linked to the performance
of the most energy-efficient enterprise(s) in the subsector. Each of the
concerned enterprises will appoint one of its staff as the energy manager in
charge of implementing, and reporting to the Government on measures and in-
vestments foreseen under the enterprise's five-year energy conservation
plan. DGE, LNETI and the Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enter-
prises (IAPMEI) will need substantial assistance to develop the capacity to
initiate and support this ambitious program.
Bank Role in the Energy Sector
32.       The Bank Group has made six loans for power in Portugal total-
ling $93.5 million. Five loans were made during the period 1963-1966, three
to a thermal generating company and two for hydroelectric generation. The



- 13 -
last loan made in 1976 financed a part of EDP's 1976-1978 investment pro-
gram. All projects were successfully completed. Preparations are underway
for a seventh power project to assist witb the financing of EDP's 1982-84
investment program. The Bank is also assisting with the modernization of the
bydropower equipment industry under the Mechanical Industry Project (Loan
1875-PO). The Bank also made a $20 million loan (Loan 2024-PO) to PETROGAL
for petroleum exploration. Bank lending for energy in Portugal has not only
provided investment funds for the projects, but more importantly it has con-
tributed to several major institutional changes: (i) implementation of a
revised rate structure for electricity taking into account marginal costs of
supply, and (ii) rationalization of petroleum product pricing. Continuation
of the Bank's involvement in the energy sector would assist Portugal in
developing further its indigenous energy resources and institutions, and
carry forward these financial policy improvements. The present project is
designed to assist Portugal's energy conservation and diversification efforts
in the industrial sector. The Bank has played an active role in the con-
ceptualization and preparation of this integrated project, which would be the
first of its kind to be considered by the Bank.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
33.       The proposed project grew out of a recognition by Portugal that its
social and economic development is dependent to a large degree on the success
obtained in defining and implementing an energy policy which modifies
Portugal's existing high level of dependence on energy imports and its rela-
tively high energy/GDP ratio. The Government bas prepared, in close consul-
tation with the Bank, an integrated package of policy and institutionbuilding
measures, as well as investments, studies and energy audits which are aimed
at reducing the cost and unit consumption of energy in the industrial sector,
the largest energy user. The project, whicb is seen as a first step in a
larger program, was appraised by the Bank in August 1981 and is described in
detail in the Staff Appraisal Report, "Portugal: Industrial Energy Conserva-
tion and Diversification Project," (No. 3837-PO), dated April 30, 1982, which
is being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
in April 1982. The Portuguese delegation was led by Dr. Antonio Labisa,
Ministry of Finance and Planning. The major features of the loan and project
are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The proposed project is designed to assist Portugal in reducing the
energy consumption of its industries, to diversify their energy sources, and
to develop the basis for an expanded and more effective renewable energy pro-
gram. The project consists of four main components: (i) energy conservation
and diversification studies and investments within public and private sector
companies operating in the major energy-intensive industries (the Energy-In-
tensive Industries Component); (ii) an energy survey covering about ten other



- 14 -
major energy-consuming industries involving primarily small- and medium-scale
private enterprises, along with technical assistance in setting up an Energy
Conservation Center (the Technical Assistance Component); (iii) a leasing
facility earmarked for energy conservation equipment in predominantly private
sector enterprises (the Leasing Component); and (iv) studies, pilot/demon-
stration projects and technical assistance to accelerate the development of
Portugal's renewable energy resources (the Renewable Energy Component). Each
component is designed to address the needs of particular parts of the indus-
trial sector and Government institutions and each reflects the differing
status of program development in these areas.
Energy-Intensive Industries Component
35.       The largest component of the proposed project will finance energy
audits and studies, engineering services and investments for energy conserva-
tion and diversification by large-scale public and private sector enterprises
in selected energy-intensive industries. Energy conservation and diversifi-
cation investment plans in the refineries, chemicals and fertilizers, cement,
and pulp and paper sectors for the 1982-84 period, amounting to about $200
million equivalent ($130 million equivalent in foreign exchange), have al-
ready been identified (para. 27). Only selected investments amounting to
about 20 percent of this total, and considered not suitable for complete
financing through suppliers' credits or other foreign exchange lending
sources, would be included under the project. In addition to several subpro-
jects which have already been appraised by the Bank, funds would be available
under this component for additional projects, including energy audits and
studies, as they are readied. The DGE will select a limited number of energy
conservation or diversification projects from enterprises in these industries
for inclusion under this component; the Bank has already appraised some of
these programs and appraisal of others will be made during 1982 and the first
half of 1983. Appraisals will follow normal Bank standards, with a minimimum
economic rate of return of 15 percent based on expected energy savings. Com-
pany descriptions, financial projections, and analysis of energy conservation
and diversification programs for several of the eligible large scale public
enterprises have already been prepared and reviewed.
36.       Subject to satisfactory Bank appraisal, Bank funds will be onlent,
on terms satisfactory to the Bank, to each enterprise through the Caixa Geral
de Depositos (CGD) to finance the foreign exchange portion of the proposed
energy conservation and diversification program (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(c)(i)). A total of about $20 million equivalent will be available for
onlending. These programs are also expected to receive some financing via
suppliers' credits and commercial foreign currency loans. The repayment
terms of the onlent Bank funds to the enterprises will be determined as part
of each appraisal and will depend on the type and composition of the program
to be financed, with a short payback period expected in the case of projects
containing already identified equipment additions or modifications, and
longer payback periods in the case of initial audits or feasibility studies;
no loans will be made for more than 10 years (para. 52). The flexibility in



- 15 -
the utilization of Bank financing is an essential feature in the financing of
a dynamic industry-wide program of this type, where the state of readiness of
industrial investments varies from company to company.
Technical Assistance Component
37.       The Government has already set up a coordinating body for the pro-
ject, chaired by a delegate of the Secretary of State for Energy and includ-
ing the Director General for Energy and the presidents of the National Labor-
atory for Industrial Engineering and Technology (LNETI) and the Institute for
Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (IAPMEI). An executive group
reporting to the coordinating body was appointed and has been active in pre-
paration of the Technical Assistance and Renewable Energy Components. Both
the coordinating body and executive group will be maintained during project
execution.
38.       Within the MIEE, the DGE will continue to be responsible for
policy, coordination and planning functions, as well as monitoring the exist-
ing energy conservation incentive scheme (para. 30) and has added responsi-
bility for the new energy management scbeme (para. 31). Additional staff
positions have been assigned in 1982 and will be maintained to enable it to
play this expanded role. Energy conservation incentive schemes will be
reviewed from time to time, in consultation with the Bank, with a view to
reducing the maximum grant percentage to the lowest effective level (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.09).
39.       The DGE will carry prime responsiblity for implementation of a
multi-industry energy survey, to be performed by a specialized firm in
association with Portuguese staff assigned from LNETI and IAPMEI. Sample
enterprises in about 10 to 12 industries would be audited to identify energy
savings potential through improved energy management, energy savings invest-
ments and use of alternative sources of energy. The industries selected so
far are: refractories, bricks and tiles; porcelains and fine ceramics; fruit
and vegetable preserving; sugar refining; dairies; paper; textiles; glass;
breweries; and fish refrigeration/conservation. On the basis of the survey,
the consultants will identify and recommend in detail typical management and
housekeeping measures that can be adopted and standard energy conservation
and diversification investments that can be undertaken in each subsector,
along with an estimate of their respective energy savings potential.  This
information will be presented in a practically-oriented manual for eacb sub-
sector for use by LNETI and IAPMEI in their training and promotional work,
and by independent energy auditors, enterprise energy managers, and plant
operators. Draft terms of reference for the survey have already been
agreed. The survey activities will be initiated during the tbird quarter of
1982 and completed during the second quarter of 1983.
40.       As part of the survey work, the consultants will train counterpart
staff from LNETI in energy audit procedures and energy management tech-
niques. The consultants will also provide the Government with detailed data



- 16 -
on the achievable energy savings targets by type of facility, major process
or product line, and category of equipment for the selected industries, to
provide guideposts in implementing the energy management decree (para. 31).
Two special reports will also be prepared: (i) consolidation of data on the
possibilities of switching to coal, solar energy, and wood and wood residues
in these industries, and (ii) potential for utilities rationalization through
cogeneration and common utility setups in the Estarreja industrial area and
in the Braga region.
41.       A second key element in strengthening of the institutional base for
promoting energy conservation and diversification is the upgrading of the
role of LNETI. A new unit, Energy Conservation Center (CCE), will be
established in LNETI by August 1, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(i)).
CCE's major functions will be to run promotional seminars and train indepen-
dent energy auditors, enterprise energy managers, IAPMEI staff and students
at universities and technical schools. IAPMEI staff will also be trained at
CCE to ensure IAPMEI is able to promote energy conservation with its small
and medium enterprise clients. CCE's technical assistance/auditing depart-
ment will also provide technical assistance and advisory services to those
performing enterprise energy audits in the more complex enterprises, to
IAPMEI field staff and to the enterprises tbemselves, and will continue the
multi-sector energy audit to other industries not covered under the project.
CCE would also prepare and publish followup subsector manuals and brochures
for these subsectors and establish and maintain a reference library on energy
matters. About 15 months of consultant services will be provided to help set
up CCE's work program and internal procedures; some of the consultant ser-
vices would also be used to assist the coordinating body in overseeing the
work of the consultants performing the multi-industry energy survey.
Leasing Facility
42.       This pilot financial leasing operation will help introduce leasing
as an additional medium-term capital source, which also happens to be very
suitable for financing the standard equipment for energy conservation pro-
grams. Leasing provides a particularly simple and attractive mechanism for
financing important categories of energy conservation-related equipment (such
as more efficient boilers, turbines, hydraulic and steam turbo-generators);
solar energy panels and collectors; eguipment to make use of alternative
energy sources; and improved dyeing and finishing equipment in textiles. The
proposed leasing facility will be of the full-payout type, with the capital
repayments being included in the rental payments during the lease period, at
the end of which the equipment user will be able to purchase the equipment at
a very low residual price. Since ownership of the equipment stays with the
leasing agent as collateral during the lease period and the equivalent of
nearly 100 percent financing is therefore available to the lessee, small- and
medium-scale firms should find it particularly attractive to lease finance
energy conservation equipment which typically have a significant impact on
cash flow and a short payback period.



- 17 -
43.       The project provides financing to a leasing facility for
energy-conserving equipment, Companhia Portuguesa de Locacao Financeira
Mobiliara (LOCAPOR). LOCAPOR was formally incorporated in early May 1982,
with share capital of $3 million equivalent paid in and with the Caixa Geral
de Depositos (CGD), Portugal's major savings institution and bank, as the
major shareholder (51 percent), along with LOCABAIL, a major European leasing
company (25 percent); the remaining shareholders include some of Portugal's
major private sector equipment manufacturers. LOCAPOR will operate under a
policy statement, satisfactory to the Bank, and maintain prudent financial
practices, including a term debt/equity ratio of 90/10, debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.8, and current liabilities other than the current
maturities of long-term debt at less than 10 percent of total liabilities
(Project Agreement, Sections 3.01(a) and 4.04). Appraisal standards will
focus on the prospective lessee's creditworthiness, ability to service the
lease, and quality of management. The initial staff of qualified profes-
sionals has been appointed. LOCAPOR will review annually its organizational
and staffing plans witb the Bank during the first three years of operation
(Project Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
44.       The financial leases are expected to have terms of between 3 and 7
years, depending on the type of equipment. The monthly or quarterly lease
payments will be calculated on the basis of full payout and with LOCAPOR's
spread of about 5 percent over its borrowing costs. Eligibility criteria are
as follows: (i) payback periods of up to 6 years calculated on the basis of
equipment cost and annual energy savings valued at the cif import price of
petroleum (the same as those for the energy conservation incentive scheme,
para. 30); (ii) equipment cost not to exceed Esc. 40 million ($600,000 equi-
valent); and (iii) enterprise with no more than 600 employees (Project Agree-
ment, Schedule).
45.       About $6.0 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be onlent to
LOCAPOR tbrough the CGD, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
for these purposes, the Government would consider LOCAPOR as a financial in-
termediary and onlend funds to LOCAPOR at the same rate as available to other
financial intermediaries for financing loans to small- and medium-scale
enterprises (currently about 22.5 percent per annum) (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(c)(ii)). Additional financing is expected to be arranged by LOCAPOR
through other medium- and long-term borrowings. During the first five years
of operation no further equity contributions will be required. Bank funds
onlent to LOCAPOR will carry the same repayment terms as the Bank loan;
LOCAPOR will therefore establish a revolving fund and, given the four year
average term of lease, be able to recycle the funds and finance equipment
with a total cost of about $18 million equivalent over the life of the loan.
The revolving fund is restricted to financing only energy conservation equip-
ment for small- and medium-scale enterprises (Project Agreement, Schedule).
46.       The existing leasing company and contract laws are satisfactory for
the launching of the project, but could benefit from some revision to better
reflect the particular structure of financial leasing. By December 31, 1982,



- 18 -
appropriate proposals will be prepared by the respective Government author-
ities to improve the existing commercial leasing and contract legislation in
such a way as to enable financial leasing to develop effectively as a finan-
cial instrument (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). Some modification of the tax
regime is necessary to define the taxing principles for leasing; due to the
importance of defining the tax regime for a leasing company to establish its
lease terms, it is a condition of disbursement for the leasing component that
the draft tax law for financial leasing be enacted (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, Para. 4(b)). The Government has confirmed that the industrial
incentives for energy conservation are able to transit through a leasing com-
pany under the existing laws.
Renewable Energy Component
47.       The development of Portugal's renewable energy resources is an
important element in the Government's strategy for maximizing the use of
indigenous energy resources. In order to help prepare the basis for an
expanded and more effective renewable energy program, assistance will be
provided under the project to undertake a resource assessment study of wood,
Portugal's most important biomass energy resource, and other renewable energy
studies. Terms of reference for the wood study have already been agreed
upon. The study will provide benchmark data on the present availability and
use of forest and forest industry residues, examine the cost and other
factors bearing on the prospects of increasing the supply and making more
effective use of these residues, and identify new markets in which wood
fuels would be economically competitive. The study will also assess the
tecbnical and economic feasibility of tree planting for energy purposes on
part of the estimated 2.7 million hectares of presently unutilized land con-
sidered suitable for afforestation. The study requires about 20 months of
consultants services. The other studies will test the practicality and mar-
ketability of solar heaters, biogas digesters, and wind-energy systems.
48.       A research and development program, involving testing and demon-
stration activities and pilot projects, is essential to keep Portuguese
institutions abreast of the rapidly evolving renewable energy technologies,
to make well-informed choices among technologies, and to develop the capacity
to adapt technologies to local conditions. The responsibilities of the major
institutions have been clarified, with DGE to be primarily responsible for
planning and programming and for promoting commercial application, and LNETI
responsible for actual conduct of the research and development program; it is
expected that universities and other research institutes will also play a
significant role. A programming study will be completed by December 31,
1982, to analyze Portugal's research and development needs and resources,
define its objectives and establish an appropriate work program. DGE will be
responsible for preparation of the programming study, in cooperation with
LNETI, and with the participation of the universities and other research
institutions. Annual updates of the researcb program will be prepared,
including proposals for additional pilot and demonstration projects (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.08(a)).



- 19 -
49.       DGE and LNETI have already identified several suitable pilot/demon-
stration projects. Additional subprojects identified as part of the program-
ming study for implementation during 1983 and 1984 and found to be in
accordance with the Government's priorities in the National Energy Plan, will
be funded under the project up to a total of about $1.9 million equivalent.
The subprojects are expected to be in the following areas: (i) biogas utili-
zation on a commercial scale; (ii) the use of solar energy to provide indus-
trial process heat; (iii) a photovoltaic power system; (iv) passive solar
architecture; (v) facilities for testing and certification of solar col-
lectors; (vi) testing and development of improved materials for solar energy
systems; and (vii) biomass conversion technologies. LNETI will be respons-
ible for implementation of the research and development subprojects, which
will be carried out either in its own laboratories or by universities or
other institutions or enterprises. DGE will be responsible for those pro-
jects intended primarily to demonstrate practical applications of renewable
energy technology on a commercial scale.
50.       Technical assistance in the form of training, consultant services
and equipment is provided under the project to strengthen both DGE and
LNETI. Staff training and consultants services will be used in approximately
equal proportions by DGE and LNETI. The project also provides a small amount
of specialized equipment to better equip LNETI's laboratories for work in
renewable energy.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the four components is about $54.1 million equi-
valent, of which about $36.0 million is in foreign exchange. The Bank loan
of $30.0 million will finance 55 percent of the total cost and 83 percent of
tbe foreign exchange cost, and includes capitalization of the front-end fee.
Commercial financing, internal cash generation and equity, totalling
about $20 million equivalent, will be arranged on an investment-by-investment
basis by the enterprises under the Energy-Intensive Industries Component, and
about $3.2 million equivalent by LOCAPOR under the Leasing Component. The
Government will provide the remainder, or about 2 percent of total project
cost. The cost of consultants was calculated at $13,500 per month for
foreign consultants and $5,000 per month for local consultants. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent were included for the Technical Assistance and
Renewable Energy Components.
52.       The CGD will act as the Government's agent for the onlending of the
Bank loan; it is a condition of loan effectiveness that a satisfactory agency
agreement be signed between the Government and CGD (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)). About $20 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be onlent
through the CGD to individual enterprises under the Energy-Intensive Compo-
nent; the repayment terms will be determined as part of each appraisal, but
in no case exceed 10 years. Those enterprises which wish to bear the foreign
exchange risk will receive the onlent Bank funds through CGD at 12.8 percent
per annum; those availing themselves of the exchange risk coverage will



- 20 -
receive the onlent Bank funds at a rate equal to the floating interest rate
payable on local currency loans with similar repayment terms, including the
premium to be paid to the bearer of the exchange risk (currently in total
about 26 percent per annum). About $6 million equivalent of the Bank loan
will be onlent tbrough CGD to LOCAPOR. It is a condition of loan effective-
ness that a satisfactory onlending agreement be executed between CGD and
LOCAPOR (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The repayment terms are the same
as the Bank loan (13 years, including 4 years of grace); LOCAPOR will not
bear the foreign exchange risk. The interest rate to LOCAPOR will be set at
the same rate as long-term local currency loans available to financial inter-
mediaries for the financing of loans to small- and medium-scale enterprises
(currently at about 22.5 percent per annum). The Government will retain the
equivalent of about $3.6 million to finance the Technical Assistance and
Renewable Energy Components; retroactive financing of up to $300,000 is
included for activities under these two components initiated after May 1,
1982, to enable an early startup of technical assistance, and pilot and
demonstration projects already identified.
Procurement
53.       Equipment financed under the Energy-Intensive Industries, Technical
Assistance and Renewable Energy Components will be procured under interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines, except
for (i) equipment proprietary to the process design, (ii) process-critical
and time-critical items and (iii) small items estimated to cost less than
$150,000 each; these items may be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
through international or local shopping, limited international tendering from
at least three suppliers or solicitation of prices from suppliers. Miscel-
laneous items of equipment in packages of less than $50,000 may be procured
under local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The aggregate amount of
equipment procured under other than ICB procedures will not exceed $5.0 mil-
lion for the Energy-Intensive Industries Component and will not exceed $1.0
million for the Technical Assistance and Renewable Energy Components. For
purposes of bid evaluation under ICB, local suppliers will enjoy a preference
of 15 percent or the applicable duty, whichever is lower. Procurement of
services under the Energy Intensive Industries, Technical Assistance and
Renewable Energy Components will be arranged under Bank guidelines.
54.       For the Leasing Component, after being approached by the lessee for
the financing through LOCAPOR's lease facility of energy-conserving equipment
selected by the user, LOCAPOR will check the competitiveness of the price and
the reliability of the supplier. This review will be facilitated by the
standard nature of the types of equipment involved. If LOCAPOR's engineers
are not satisfied that the price and procurement conditions are reasonable,
additional quotations will be requested or the lease contract refused.



- 21 -
Disbursement
55.       Disbursement of the Bank loan will be made against (i) 100 percent
of the foreign, 100 percent of the local ex-factory and 65 percent of the
otber local cost (off the shelf) of equipment, materials and spare parts,
either financed by the approved subloans for the Energy Intensive Industries
Component or financed under the Technical Assistance and Renewable Energy
Components; (ii) 100 percent of the cost of consultant services and training;
(iii) 65 percent of the total cost of equipment financed by the subloan to
LOCAPOR; and (iv) the front-end fee to the Bank. LOCAPOR will provide an
appraisal of eacb proposed investment for review and approval by the Bank
prior to withdrawal; after the Bank has reviewed five of these appraisals and
these are found to evidence a satisfactory appraisal performance by LOCAPOR,
the Bank would review ex post LOCAPOR's appraisal reports.
Audit and Reporting
56.       Accounts of project expenditures under the Technical Assistance and
Renewable Energy Components would be maintained by each of the agencies
involved in implementation and would be audited by Government auditors
according to standard Government practice, which is satisfactory. The
accounts of the individual enterprises receiving subloans under the Energy
Intensive Industry Component and LOCAPOR would have their financial accounts
audited by an independent auditor and furnish these reports to the Bank with-
in four months after the close of their respective fiscal years. Each enter-
prise and LOCAPOR would also prepare and furnish to the Bank, respectively,
bimonthly progress reports and quarterly progress reports within 30 days of
the end of each period and a project completion report. The executive group
of the coordinating body would prepare quarterly progress reports on the
Technical Assistance and Renewable Energy Components and a full project com-
pletion report for the overall project.
Benefits
57.       The programs financed under the project are expected to yield sig-
nificant savings in the energy bill of the major energy-intensive industries,
wbile also offering technical assistance and financing for the development of
energy conservation and diversification in all segments of the industrial
sector over the medium- to long-term. The investments proposed for the in-
dividual enterprises in the energy-intensive industries bave been estimated
to yield savings in energy between 10-20 percent, attractive financial
returns, and economic returns ranging from 15-40 percent. While reducing the
cost of imported energy in the short-term, these programs will also help
improve the competitiveness of the enterprises as well. The leasing facility
will encourage the implementation of energy conservation and diversification
investments for the small- and medium-scale enterprises, by making available
a particularly suitable form of medium-term financing for energy-saving
equipment with short payback periods and significant economic returns. This
pilot will also assist the introduction of leasing, an important form of
financing not yet well-developed in Portugal.



- 22 -
58.       The multi-sector energy survey and the development of the Energy
Conservation Center (CCE) would help identify and promote technically feas-
ible and economically practical energy conservation and diversification
measures and investment in a broad segment of the industrial sector. It will
also provide a training vehicle in energy auditing for Portuguese staff and
form the institutional base for stepped-up, sector-wide energy conservation
and diversification efforts. The costs associated with the survey and CCE
are small compared with the energy savings potential likely to be identi-
fied. By assisting Portugal in assessing its renewable energy resources, in
gaining greater familiarity with renewable energy technologies and their
applications, and in strengthening the agencies working in this field, the
Renewable Energy Component will help put into place the foundation for renew-
able energy development. This should make it possible for Portugal to mount
a sound renewable energy investment program which will contribute to meeting
the nation's energy needs. The coordinating body will prepare and furnish to
the Bank by September 30, 1983 an overall organizational, training and fol-
lowup action program for further energy conservation and renewable energy
work.
Risks
59.       The technical and financial risks of the investment components are
considered moderate. They are dealing for the most part with existing
plants and commercially proven technologies, which represent relatively
limited investments at the individual enterprise level. The energy conserva-
tion subprojects will reduce the cost and/or unit consumption of energy and
not involve increases in production and sales, and therefore do not entail
any additional market, financial, or environmental risks. Coal switchover
subprojects will be appraised with due regard to the potential impact on the
environment. The introduction of leasing in Portugal carries with it the
risks of establishing an untried form of financing in a potentially volative
financial market. This pilot program assumes therefore that by 1986 only
about 5 percent of investment in equipment by productive enterprises would be
lease-financed and that LOCAPOR would secure only one-third of this market.
The association within LOCAPOR of CGD, a large and proven financial inter-
mediary, LOCABAIL, a major European leasing company, and several of the lead-
ing domestic equipment manufacturers is expected to provide the necessary
financial, marketing and management strength and experience to enable LOCAPOR
to develop this business and secure a major market share.
60.       The main risks are those deriving from the integrated nature of the
package of investments, financial and technical assistance, studies and
institutional realignments. The coordinating role played by the MIEE is
crucial to the effective operation of these activities. Satisfactory
arrangement have already been put in place by the MIEE, through the coordi-
nating body and executive group, to oversee project implementation of the
technical assistance and renewable energy components. Still, taking into
account the pilot nature of some of the components--particularly the
multi-industrial energy survey included in the Technical Assistance Compo-



- 23 -
nent, the Leasing Component and the pilot/demonstration projects under the
Renewable Energy Component--a substantial monitoring and supervision effort
on the part of Bank staff is considered necessary and is planned for. To the
extent that the Bank will thus gatber experience for follow-up projects in
Portugal and similar projects elsewhere, however, this effort is justified.
61.       From a macroeconomic standpoint, the project entails on the other
hand more limited risks than otber projects implying significant capital out-
lays and expansion of productive capacity. The types of energy conservation
and diversification programs and subprojects included in the project have, as
mentioned, a significant impact on energy costs and high economic and finan-
cial rates of return, while representing relatively limited investment pro-
grams at the enterprise level. As such, the project's implementation is less
prone to be affected by delays in the recovery from the present recessionary
situation in the world or by austerity measures in Portugal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and LOCAPOR, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of the agency agreement between the Government and
CGD and the onlending agreement between CGD and LOCAPOR will be additional
conditions of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). It
will be a condition of disbursement against the Leasing Component that the
draft tax law for financial leasing be enacted (Loan Agreement, Scbedule 1,
para. 4(b)).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Mr. Stern
Attacbments
May 12, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              92.                                   MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       40.9               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   350.0       950.0    2180.0                    2609.1                    9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      473.1        951.4    1495.7                    2368.4                   7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8826.0        8628.0    9771.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2       30.0                     53.2                     76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         11.5
STAT1ONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        95.8         93.7      106.1                     80.6                    142.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    162.4         200.2      237.1                    133.9                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.1         28.4       26.9                     30.1                     22.8
15-64 YRS.                          62.9         61.9       62.9                     61.5                     65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7       10.2                      8.3                     11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               O.5/c       -O.2/c      1.4                      1.5                      0.8
URBAN                               2.1          1.3        2.9                      3.1                      1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.1        19.6       18.2                     22.9                     14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       7.5          9.2        9.6                      9.1                      9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.6         1.5        1.2                      1.6                      0.9
fAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FPOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        105.0      80.0                     119.8                    112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   116.0        128.0     126.0                     125.7                    131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           78.0         89.0      83.0                      92.5                     98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.0         38.0      38.0                      39.7                     62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       5.0          2.6        1.3                      3.4                      0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.3          67.3       70.7                     68.9                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             77.5        58.0       38.9/h                   25.2                     12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              28.9         34.5       65.0
URBAN                              82.1           ..       90.0
RURAL                              14.4           ..       56.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1200.0/d    1100.0       698.0                    973.3                    621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1430.0Td    1000.0      502.0                    896.6                    217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             183.0        164.0      187.4                    262.3                    119.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      80.4                     191.8                    120.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        10.0       13.5                     18.2                      17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          3.7
URBAN                               4.0           ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1          0.8
URBAN                               1.0           ..         ..
RURAL                                1.1          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2         ..
URBAN                              88.5           ..         ..
RURAL                              27.4           ..         ..



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/GES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME              INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE               MARRET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                    ..         98.0      117.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                     ..         99.0      119.0                    109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                   ..         96.0     115.0                     102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..         57.0       55.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                     ..         63.0       54.0                     73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                   ..         51.0       56.0                     59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  46.0            34.0       17.0                     28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         34.0       19.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                            19.0         17.0       23.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          62.0         71.0       70.0                     75.4                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.0         63.9      108.3                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           96.1        158.6      167.5                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            5.2         45.1      117.9                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    63.0         86.1       54.7                    123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0             3.0        4.1                      5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3397.3       3386.7    3761.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.9         24.8       25.8                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                44.1         33.3       24.7                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   29.0         33.2       35.8                     28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  38.5         39.3       38.5                     42.3                      45.7
MALE                                   66.0         62.3       60.2                     56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                                 13.2         18.5       18.9                     28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0        1.0                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            56.Ie,f  56.3/e,
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          6.2/eff  7.3/7eg
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         20.6et  21.4Lt.e..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     480.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      480.0                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e Highest
25X and lowest 25% and 50% of households; /f 1968; /g 1973-74; /h 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $2350 (at 1978-80 prices) and 9836
thousand.
May, 1981



-26 -                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Notes   althorg, the due  ore dIoo  foe  ---e  g-teoll.Y i,,dged tO   osh             aholalo    t  r..roSo, it  hold .1ot be totd olha  0                     00    oirto-
thelss,  sefl todenolbeordesho  eagrltodf      rtdtetetede,,cod ohaoeooerlpete-doby eufjot d               -f-tiot   be'-eeI'oIllt 
Thteestu   goooue   1)ttsaet, oootoI grIpFrh-h--Joreoee(d   etoserih  srj pulhodj                              eot,I-etoer-e                                   ryrO-
of. th       galjoo ptotitr    horto    too "Ca -tl Selo  01 thoptetern'  grou   thee  Didl  bttosey North ufOri          t dOeoe            -tuo   he a so. F o-toges
LADj RE   (hooter- oqulh. ot.)                                                t- h.t-              FopluttltUlt                       ___                             1:
fo-odb  re    -trtlrtid 01 World  Bas-k Atle  (:10-Is fIulIe; 1960, dr  eule  rrts  s_os  _ettety   sfe   hbII                                                      --otlo   ha y  af
c.1-d b,  -I  --i-  -lh.d    W-1d   Ik Altol-sdoruod  a  lrte   oegeod  eotalfeolIlI.   or e-l_
selolo) to klogret of tol ebloaleeleP_ette   160, 1970, erd 1979                         teto          -i-i-teDed hoa. tlear    -1odlae   tOIF aodoso-el
frue h-sutilal  b7-tded by thoeo-e1to         lIIhdo
'PEFOCTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Totl Ftoetlt,FIdSeu  (Ooaert(    a  of J.1, D; 19FF, 1970, eod 1979                  AROUSNI
Ftbao PopoDll    teno  ofttl:-Ftlo of urba-  Id  -tt1 Pporo-atoo;                                    A hoeSl -     onelot   ofohropo          : loloohar- li-o  go--r
difeeo7efrtoo    f  te  oto  u   ff-tt ...etorcillly of doSe                                                                                                            i-torsl   tl,       tot  olderrro   a   o   e lotded tt
191   90   o   975 dothe.- .D btehold for  tooSlt too   -p-IFot
bofolaFooIIIaeIdI-Creno.aloyoenost   hae.lf                                             bo    eno         FetrtFllre,Orlldtrtelrtopedtoo- oOtl                          d
Froletoloe -oee-  For e-rtlatyta--soo,stseo;frbeeth-                 eeeo                     oot-oodott
lsglteeonttctyaeilor lytrteoobglthttootI          y   go Th.tttoe1oesoCotlto(eCstdtoloe-ttlohs.000
looo I"  I..fetle ife e-tIIIet-r othtll 1t-a17.5  or .-t   d Flie pira                        Cd.otroIoiloott    l ostto -P l   lsg50 ene  poot
Eorslotyuoodsgc  Doto- loool Iod pent fooily ple-titg  -sf-ttr-
StolseyrooenI-IIAtetloat   oo i-to   tat-It to g-ossh Itot                                          rnr   coD-ttl   aeodfoF   - Cr ole  -oto, I'le usd teoul
tolhottoote-t.  OhAIo-t cSoe   os d,ly fe   FotIDyrao  feollo,   to                                FI.laFy ohool-ug~ pfol dtlot;              hIFoal F    p Ittad y hld-enig-   6-DO
of e--e  -epleooee-  I         tly      ht  soltryoololtseeeecoCoe .                                           t... o.to.t oo_   aoId to    soter   n    sed   I   oro
Tel  t'ed orhe hot,n of the  -ritt-d oher. tr..           lc   fIhe  pop to                        oi-Ie stat FoPII et  bel.e  -e eboot-to offto oI ooA             ae
IItthtpoa 20dlF     II oodheo     ofdtlIoe  Iffetl{ft tf_lo-Stoeytho-oe.cetdfetele-tC                                                             Co....edalehooe;-   -tdery
Fete1.                                                                o~~~~~~~~do-tlo-eottet lIeto fua  yertlep-rd otleey los...                  ot
DerY   ot_    oy  uoato   e  ete  - STe Y.., ahot .tei .oat l oaelo                                  pro-idol g.oor.l , tootlosl  ,  roeohoteolg   lo-ttoot-r  fo  poyt
Iftoho bee ht-aohed.                                                                              Ioooa        12lyoflls-oll  Iorooeotetoaouooete  gesat-IF
Fer so. be. - fold-tsa  tpuptlos..p yrq--tekilo..e..t  (10Coiae    ofSotoo   ooleo oretof  scodt)                                                       -  otfo-sll-n -ltotlIo.
totaF  area; IF60, 1970 osd 1979 lala.                                                             itolode tobn l,tdo-tli1, or uthe   ye  rs hich  plerot. lodepesd
Ferag. lot. ageltatotellotd Coeyoted  -eeboe  illgrlolo Iaod                                 .toly -tIedeypa--t  of te-odory lotlt!tlt."
Fooal    s   soto'! feett     Chitldre   fl-li yeas) .              erlg-g 15-                yeteatyeo.deetotdoy 1-r1l  dlotded by eu.sbees  oft hettlI   he
so6etyd   6  yeast ao  00SF) es yeoelag..-e of  ild-yace yoyo-                                ttepdog            lesel
letio-; 1960, 1900, add1909dot.                                                                    Adalt lecretCebs                                                   I leaeFls(iet  ed o'd "jite(
Poooatto IFoth tte ftetoss I- tool -ANtol atoob9 aeeh     f toteD  old-                    oeptesg    fstlaotpylits  ged 1  pest  sd lost
Peooge   ot  latb(oreo                    - aboAs...al groeth Fatea of etbos Pope-               CONSUMTD1ION
losoento  1951-fl, 196F-7I  oof 1970-79.                                                        Poete   os  seeosedttltof                        - Fsage  oats  -loefta  50Dbl
Doptlotlooh  1991. 1970, eod 1979 dte                                                             silitcrY o-bilee.
Otafe Oe-h Fete -  tsrh-os-) - A.ooI de-tte yet thoooaedn of  itd-yaee                            IFodlo R-tirse  feet thooaord syetof               All  yp-t  of -"'lle Ife  ol
ttatho;1960, 1970. us~l1979 date..b.  ..eodosotoserj y_blie pee  h..a..r.d of popol.tloi   soDds  s
fltotnFeotodottOtOOets-uoeregosobetofud.afbth ooena lllheuots                               DOteo...sdteol'er  IeooTtsedrFoebteltaOrFnO
tlaity tote; ant-aly fitt-pee                                                                      ..r.cootgI   99,17,  o   99   nItoottrlesnb.lshad lile...log.
of biroD-ot-tro1 derlr-  -.ode  oatyr-  of sotloral folyFotoPose.gstl blit  1 rth ohoanne  yoPol-tlu; estlodtatitee     so lses
oohltn-Ooo dettod  -rlealYF to rtolggorlott.di                    It Dl  otn-d-red
FOOD ooo  TooRDFo0t  be 'to,if It                                                                                                    l eppet  a   lots fototto_tIose.
urodoolotrfllfooroloodltce.  Ftorttltt,orldeneePedoodfeedcnd                       Ct_neenldolgA                 fe,enldtgdltlotdth,o-lItnOs.
Il tO rolordet yea  hetln.  looeodittottotF  ytisaFy good  e..gI - togatnetd        tiod sobl1e dslti.gh   Y.,i.                    d -l_
oeoootntl       ASd).    gEO -DOO-td-tOoof teCAh-totty Etbo-d 00L,EDOEOODCE
stooatago yoIdoottorln-e-lh-l  1961-65, 1970,..od 1979 deoc.                             TotlCbo1       oo Lrbancds) -           -t i-Iotoly anttse poroe,lrDd
Pettattealufolrof aloloe(tetee o  roolretonf    Coyotd  (le                tnd fo .ted  -sepluyed bot .o..   o    ooeooe  eodoe,eeR
yet day.      i1       I_tlhle ,tIetttFoOne  doae-lr  odtioistt In                               o      poyrb_e; l960. !971  ra179daa
0000.  o   OlgI l i 10th. k  e  euro to  eor -lado 001.01 feed, eeeI,                 Feaelete)-Fesl   oo   oo   eyteoeo   oo    et   on
qo-ittl -o teed Or' fotd ototenlog,  od'  Iest  to dieotibotioo. Requtot-                    AFetlootae. foeoet)   Cbot forteis                      I-oog   oetey. hootlog cod
sesneeeetlnaedhy  aO   ate  t  yheloogoelI-fe  nose  orIdtlebo500 oti                     osgt    f tte  lebo  foohteg              .    I     -; 1960,19Fod97   e.
..rebod -lse; 1961-65,117. 191F tdF77dtara                                                     1970  od 179dntc.
,o,pi, ofIfoo  yer day.  Ntt toP.yl  of f..o in defioed os  ht.-   Do-                        eoIt  try Fete  or-opte            tco,sl, etA  ft-D   lIbo- fo.t  on.
noltsesl fr ol  tosttetill        lO bey5 PSDA o-rd   o  eseepresae   fIte,el    d  fe_olo  `pFaDetOt of all agsI  _osyett,loe;
etlooooeO 0 6  fraoeo)corl.  p    iot   ttdyad00grs o.   f  Itisa  and                    1960, 1970. ood 1979 deco. . Ehese coo hetd ot I10's Pet.         tol    ae
polto pr--et.  of oblth 11 green  nhoold be atloul prtest.  Thos  ened-                         tefleot lgAge-neo_tAo... teo   theT FoFoloth-n  end loot Etto oed.k
Irdler   Ooerthoootose of 75 groee.t-1otl-totlocdd23gte..AsoI fesen l- te fete   trosoet..oIle...ten
oeepotl. e  00  -n-reg   for tbo-Id, Fropo-ed by FAC Is lth  Ohtrd                   PoteoDeodeos  ac-ta.elo  of Fotletrdeo 11 od 15 sottI
Wrd Food tortey; 1900-65, 1970 and 1970 dotIe1.totloso0tl  .bolo  f-tt.
oloed ftto etilsaoeAI        le I sd91IIi  gteo Per doy; I96-65. 197  And 0970 dote.        INC        DISbDRIFUIO
Ige ort 1F-4  -0t, ttohbldr-oiFothl5e1oggroa ;f1~te              It do-O .,ph9goou-                I  oson ,ro      -eol   potnoot , p--eol  F-ttCtt,edynos-S   Al-Ottet
lrtoI fete fonioed ftrot lfe  tablet; 1960, 1971 eod 1909 deco                                     of =boho .
F(lull                                                                                             nOVERFlY TANIOT  .OQUPS
oF ego yet otoototeodA  -1lIfotdlttth ls.
Intn 10Ff    ao (eoo   fonrolo  Iotol-.-dbasI-tA irro   - ion-I"tols  Poosty Isrtno  -ito!   Is hat OIIs .                                              t. ol-0100  htih e oni-l
bet of potyle (tonal, otbun, eta rarel) atob reenuoohleennoestoeele             nutoEtlorollr odeqoaro dCot F- at essor.olel oto-sttdoosrlsescooolssN-oItll   l_l
toe    tyl       Itt-,e  Ito ord OttfttOCt'll 0  rotreotld  boo utontaorateteffodobl-
d  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti                                         toa o t l tn   y  o  ro  to e    .n  l ( 5     e  o  o  l f  u  b  o   n  t t
eenrs IoenhottrIc  prot-rsd boehbnl_e.ntti'                 ,otdeelayelfs                            oetltvyoetlrslrJi    r-l                                  ooeg   otpt
peretgeo  roreItttepolool.    co. tbet ateaop Lbolt
Fototao ot Iosdy is botd00ooeta   aFsnr   ro      os  syh1ee  nIie(seotfthghr ro                                                         f liilolgO ios.bosaso
arentIoFeet         dtn  1 1l thonen     h.of ouoolaoaIf-oo.cl. urtan, and Fate'_
the  -11-nto- osd d1leFo_l, ocol ot  lehool  --e-nn . o  h---ettlsiCtor o   Foo                                                                                iOtoDoleo
ond nene-tttoby - -ao        --oo   syntoes or the an  of pit  tliscen eod nIoi-                                                    Froonr lebne   cod Fro'e-roloo   De-et-
ytototottooFbyotso    foolooo  SttId 00 onaho  of Fe-ttOItid  otynl-
Poelalo pe  NFtOe  eron-  o,loltolot flrde   by 'Y eetoonanloo
seleoodtse-lo  r.da..otIeto          P    -1 ndni-en 



- 2 7 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars)
Actual                                                                                  Share of GDP at
1980                     Annual Growth Rate (X)                              Market Prices (Current Prices)
($l=Esc. 53.0)    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978    1979   1980                1960   1970   1975   1978   1979    1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                   22,740          0.7   -3.7      9.0     5.6     3.2     4.5     5.5       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                                -1.8   -2.7      1.5  -10.0    4.0    9.0         3.0       22.7   16.1   14.1   11.6   12.7   11.5
Industry                                                    4.0   -9.3      4.3    10.4     3.3     3.9     5.8        34.5   37.3   38.9   33.4   37.5   36.1
Services                                                    0.8     1.6   15.8    6.6       2.5     3.8     6.0        35.4   36.2   37.9   46.6   42.2   43.4
Coosumpt.on b/                              20,294         10.3     1.2     3.1     3.3     1.1     2.3     4.7        87.8   83.3   96.1   88.7   88.0   89.2
Gross Investment                             5,707         -6.1  -45.7   30.5   28.8   -4.7    -2.1    12.1            18.5   23.5   16.3   23.1   22.2   25.1
Exports of GNFS                              6,392       -15.7  -13.2       4.8     6.8   14.6   27.4       8.2        16.6   23.4   19.6   19.9   25.8   28.1
Imports of GNFS                              9,653          4.8   26.7   17.5    13.1   -1.8        7.8     9.6        22.9   30.2   32.2   31.8   36.1   42.4
Groso  National Savings                      2,446       -35.4  -39.2    13.7   28.4   16.9   21.6   11.1              16.7     9.3   18.9   21.8   12.0   10.8
Prices
Rate of Isflation                                       27.4   20.4   18.3   27.3   22.1   24.2   16.8
Exchange Rate c/                                        25.4   23.6   30.2   38.2   43.9   49.8   53.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                                Annual Data at Current Prices f/                                      As Percent of Total f/
Imports                                                                                                                1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Food                                                     903    892       862    888    865  1,106  1,270            19.5   23.1   20.0   17.9   16.5   17.0   13.7
Other Primary                                            531      371    490      656    565      739    977        11.4    9.6   11.4   13.2   10.8   11.4   10.5
Fuel                                                      584    589      692    737    826  1,267  2,243            12.6   15.2   16.0   14.8   15.8   19.5   24.1
Capital Equipment                                      1,194      967  1,066  1,301  1,464  1,648  2,333            25.7   25.0   24.7   26.2   28.0   25.3   25.1
Other Manufactures                                     1,429  1,045  1 206  1.382  1,509  1,749  2,469              30.8   27.0   27.9   27.8   28.9    26.9    26.6
Tstal                                                  4,641  3,864  4,316  4,964  5,229  6,509  9,293             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Exports
Agricultural Products                                     363     324    307      330     371     489     552 d/   16.2   16.8   17.1   16.5   15.6   13.8   11.9 d/
Wood and Cork Products                                    360     306     345     359    371      570    810         16.1   15.8   19.3   17.9   15.6   16.1   17.5
Textiles, Clothing and Footwear                          672    578       524    594    774  1,193  1,341           30.0   29.8   29.3   29.6   32.5   33.6   29.0
Machinery and Transport Equipment                         285     254    226      297     321    426    625          12.8   13.1   12.6   14.8   13.5   12.0   13.6
Other                                  -                 558    474       388    421      542    872  1 288         24 4   24.5   21.7   21.2    22.8   24.6   28.0
Total Merchaodise Exports (f.o.b.)                       2,238  1,936  1,790  2,001   2,379  3,550  4,616             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                                       1975=100
Export Price Index                                         99     100     106     142     173    224    277
Import Price Index                                        91      100     112     144    178      236     306
Terms of Trade Index                                      109     100      95      98      98      95      91
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                              As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                         1974    1975    1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Current Receipts                                         77.8   93.2  127.1  173.6  212.2  264.3   361.8            23.0   24.8   27.2   27.9   27.2    6.9   30.0
Current Expenditures                                    76.5  102.6  153.3  182.1  238.5  302.2   407.0             22.6   27.3   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7   33.8
Current Surplus/Def.cit (-) of the State                  1.3   -9.4  -26.2   -8.5  -26.3  -37.9   -45.2             0.4   -2.5   -5.6   -1.3   -3.4    -3.9   -3.8
Capital Expenditures (Net)                               7.1   12.4   19.3   34.5   39.1   42.7           64.8        3.4    4.4      5.0    6.4      5.0     4.3     5.4
Net Financiag Requirements                                5.8   21.8   45.5   43.0   65.4   80.6   110.0              1.7     5.8     9.7     8.0     8.4     8.2     9.1
Financing Needs                                          8.3   17.4   48.9   44.7   75.8   97.1                      2.4    4.6   10.4    7.2         9.7     9.9
Debt Amortization                                       -2.5      4.4   -3.4   -1.7  -10.4  -16.5                    0.7      1.2    0.7      0.3     1.3     1.7
LABOR FORCE                                                                 TOTAL LABOR FORCE e/
In Thousands                                  Percent of Total                      Growth Rate(%)
1974     1977     1978     1979      1980           1974   1977    1978   1979       1980             1979-80
Agriculture                 1,300   1,263    1,187    1,174    1,155             34.5    33.4   31.8   30.9       29.8               -1.4
Industry                   1,307    1,250   1,283    1,330   1,382              34.7   33.0   34.3   35.0    35.6                   +3.9
Services                   1,160   1,273   1,266   1,294    1,347               30.8   33.6    33.9   34.1        34.7                4.
Total                    3,767    3,786   3,736    3,798   3,887             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                     2.3
a/  At market prices.  Sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Statistlcal discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
c/  Exchange rate at end 1981 US$l=Esc. 65.0.
d/  Estimated.
a/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
ft Data for years before and after 1975 are not fully comparable becaune of a revised
definition of intermediate and capital goods.
10340G)



-28 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1973   1974    1975   1976    1977    1978   1979   1980
Exports (F.O.B.)                     1,843  2,238  1,936  1,790  2,001  2,379  3,550  4,616
Imports (F.O.B.)                    2745  4277  3 60   3265  4533  4,787  6,182  8,667
Trade Balance (X-M)                   -902 -2,039 -1,670 -2,175 -2,532 -2,408 -2,632 -4,051
Net Non-Factor Service                67     -74   -170       54      82     276    541      596
Tourism Receipts (Gross)            (550)  (513)  (360)  (327)  (403)  (592)
Resource Balance                      -835 -2,113 -1,839 -2,121 -2,450 -2,132 -2,091 -3,455
Net Investment Income a/                86     129    -14   -133   -179   -329   -437   -608
Net Transfers b/                     1,097   1,111  1,037      964  1,134  1,635  2,476  3,015
Balance on Current Account             348   -873   -817 -1,290 -1,495   -826    -52 -1,048
Direct Foreign Investment              110     109     122      51      52       56      59     100
Changes in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
(- = Increase)                   -345     554     688      128     359   -103      -68      58
Official Reserves
Gross Esd of Year c/              2,839  2,354  1,534  1,301  1,391  1,880  1,951  1,815
Of unioh;  Gold                   1,163  1,193  1,136  1,125  1,025  1,009  1,020  1,020
Foreign Exnhange    1,641   1,125       390     166    366    871       931    795
Accu-1
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                            DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/   1975    1976   1977    1978   1979   1980
Official Grants and Grant-like         -                3      -       -       -        -           Total Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed -
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                     Public Debt Only            1,052   1,337  2,178  3,859  4,785  5,090
IBRD                                -                -       36      74    131      143     134  Interest on Public Debt           37      41      74    148    310    441
IDA                                 -                -       -       -       -       -       -   Repayments on Publir Debt    74          101    138    245    402         528
Other Multilateral                    1               4     123      87      86      69      96  Total Public Debt Service    111         142    213    393        713    968
Governments                           7              71     124    314    915    237         91
Suppliers                          207               55      41      62      53       1    106  Public Debt Service Ratio           3.5      5.1     5.9     9.5   12.9   13.6
Financial Markets                    74              91    388      396     744     700    659
Public Loans n.e.i.                  -               -       -       -      _ _      _
Total Public M&LT Loans                51    460      224     712    933  1,929  1,150  1,086  Average Terms of Public Debt
(Grant Elenent)                 9.1   11.1   12.9    4.5   -2.6         0.4
Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1980               Interest on Public Debt %         7.9     7.6      7.4     8.9   10.8   10.3
EXTERNAL DEBT                               Disbursed OnlD                             Percent
IBRD                                            109                                    2.0          Amsrtization as % Prior Year
IDA                                              -                                       -            Public DO&D                       -      9.6   10.3   11.2   10.4   11.0
Other Multilateral                              359                                     6.7         IBRD Debt Outstanding and
Governments                                   1,369                                   25.4             Disbursed                      39.0   35.6   32.2   36.1   63.1  109.4
Suppliers                                       385                                     7.1         IBRD DO&D as % Public Debt
Financial Markets                             2,868                                   53.3            Outstanding and Disbursed    3.7         2.7     1.5     0.9     1.3    2.1
Private Non-Guaranteed Debt                     297                                     5.5         IBRD Debt Service as 2
Total Public and Private M&LT Debt              5,387                                   100.0            Public Debt Service             5.7     4.3     3.1      1.9     1.8     2.0
a/  Largely interest payments.
bIs  Largely workers' remittances.
c/ Gold, National Valuation: Special Drawieg Rights, 35 per fine troy ounce and converted t0 US dollars at current rates.
December 1980 stock of 22.13 million ounces would give about $9 billion, valued at $400 per ounce.
d/ Debt service as a ratio of earnings from exports, non-factor services and workers' remittances.
No available.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Februar.y 26, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
($ million)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan                                                       Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year      Borrower                Purpose             Bank          Undisbursed
Six loans for power development and one for
industrial finance fully disbursed                      139.5          -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal        Highways                 24.0         8.7
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal        Water Supply             40.0        34.0
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal        Education I              21.0        20.3
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal        Agricultural Credit    70.0          69.4
1649 1979 Quimica de Portugal E.P.  Fertilizer Industry    58.0            21.0
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal        Highways II              40.0        38.4
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal        Small and
Medium Industry        45.0        39.9
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal        Education II             40.0        40.0
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal        Forestry                 50.0        47.7
1874 1980 COMETNA a/                  Mechanical Industry    33.4          31.3
1875 1980 SOREFAME a/                 Mechanical Industry    10.6           7.2
1942 1981 Second Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional                    Finance               100.0        97.4
2024 1981 PETROGAL                    Petroleum Exploration  20.0          20.0
TOTAL                                              691.5       475.3
of which has been repaid                           59.3
TOTAL now outstanding                              632.2
Amount sold                          2.6
of which has been repaid            2.5             0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank b/                          632.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                               475.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Year        Obligor               Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1981    Investment Company       Development Finance    10.0       1.5      11.5
of Portugal               Company
a/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I Project; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Despite start-up delays in procuring equipment, appointing consul-
tants, and preparing subprojects, all aspects of the project are now progres-
sing satisfactorily. The road rehabilitation components and the procurement
of equipment are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.  The national
transport plan and the highway master plan are substantially completed. A
second extension of the closing date is likely to be requested.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The main physical component of the project, a 90 km transmission
pipeline, is progressing although with considerable delays, as is work on the
related pumping stations which is also behind schedule. A solution is being
sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem despite some improve-
ment. A new Board for EPAL was appointed in January 1982; in addition, new
company statutes were approved in May 1981 which should serve to reorganize
EPAL into an autonomous entity with clearly defined authority and responsi-
bilities. Tariffs were increased again in March 1982 by about 45 percent on
average.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
A general public service moratorium on hiring personnel (to contain
the growing budget deficit) delayed design work. This delay combined with
initial site acquisition problems caused considerable slippage in physical
implementation. Architectural designs for all project institutions, includ-
ing management training centers, are now underway. Equipment lists have been
substantially completed and procurement is underway.   Technical assistance
is being recruited on schedule; studies have been substantially completed.
Based upon satisfactory steps taken by the Government to initiate project
work in 1981, the closing date was extended by one year to December 31,
1982. If implementation continues to progress satisfactorily, a further
extension of the closing date will be considered.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
porgress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is
practically completed. The groundwater survey and the fish stock assessment
survey are substantially completed. Project implementation for the fisheries
component is progressing although it is about a year behind the original
schedule. The credit scheme for farm development in the Alentejo has only
recently been initiated. Excess liquidities in the banking system have so
far sbarply limited recourse to IFADAP refinancing. The Government and the
Bank are in the process of reviewing the credit mechanisms.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Although six months behind schedule, physical project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily, with the urea plant already commissioned
and the Alverga nitric acid plant undergoing startup tests. Procurement of
Bank-financed equipment is about 71 percent completed, and the corresponding
loan funds 96 percent committed. The fertilizer study has been completed.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a slow start, progress on rehabilitation works is now pro-
gressing. Training programs are under preparation.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A revision in the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for Indus-
trial Estates (EPPI) has been made to ensure better returns on investment;
however, EPPI is experiencing delays in budget support and constructions
works. The technology study and procurement on other technology items is
progressing well. The textile study has been completed. A substantial
amount of the SMI credit line has been committed. Participating banks have
shown renewed interest in the credit line due mainly to the Central Bank tak-
ing steps to facilitate the use of the credit line.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: July 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established and project
implementation is now progressing well. Most of the equipment lists have
been completed and procurement is underway.  Inter-ministerial committees are
working well which should improve implementation of the civil works compo-
nents. Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under development.
Implementation of the technical assistance program is on schedule.
Loan 1853 - Forestry Project; $50 Million Loan of October 2, 1980; Effective-
ness Date: March 2, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The Project Coordination Unit has been established and is working
effectively. Satisfactory progress is being made on the acquisition of land
and the afforestation program. Procurement of equipment for the 1981-1983
afforestation seasons is completed. Despite initial delays, the technical
assistance program is now going well. The Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Fund (IFADAP) is gearing up to process subloans to cooperatives and/or asso-
ciations of private forest owners soon.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Project; $33.4 Million Loan to
COMETNA and $10.6 Million Loan to SOREFAME of October 2, 1980; Effectiveness
date: December 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Physical implementation of the COMETNA project, originally progres-
sing well, has been delayed up to six months due mainly to a change in site
location. Site preparation is now well underway and procurement is progres-
sing well. Physical implementation of the SOREFAME project is on schedule
and progresing well; all equipment packages have been procured and the man-
agement study has been completed. The engineering industries subsector study
is substantially completed. Technical assistance components are proceeding.
Loan 1942 - Second Banco de Fomento Nacional Project; *100 Million Loan of
March 27, 1981; Effectiveness date: June 16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Appraisal of subprojects and commitments are underway; however,
BFN's portfolio and arrears position remain a problem. The export promotion
plan is underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 2024 - Petroleum Exploration Project; t20 Million Loan of September 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: March 1, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, with the
second seismic survey in progress and key technical assistance in place.
Drilling is expected to be delayed to August 1982 because of the long lead
time required to procure drilling contracts and critical drilling eqiuipment
in presently tight markets; however, this delay is not expected to be detri-
mental to PETROGAL.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Six Months
(February 1981-July 1981)
(b) Agency which prepared project:                    Coordinating Body, Ministry
of Industry, Energy and
Exports (MIEE), and Caixa
Geral de Depositos (CGD)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,           May 1980
and date of first Bank mission to consider         and
the project:                                   March 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:           August 7, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:               April 22, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                    August 1, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank would appraise each energy conservation and diversification
subprojects under the Energy-Intensive Industries Component.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) Signing of agency agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between
the Government and CGD (para. 52); and
(b) Signing of onlending agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between CGD and LOCAPOR (para. 52).
2. Condition of disbursement for the Leasing Component is:
Enactment of draft law for financial leasing (para. 46).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
3.   Other undertakings of the Government include:
(a) Government to review the conservation incentive schemes from
time to time, with a view to reducing the maximum grant per-
centage to the lowest effective level (para. 38);
(b) By December 31, 1982, appropriate proposals will be prepared
by the respective Government authorities to improve the
existing commercial leasing and contract legislation in such
a way as to enable financial leasing to develop effectively
as a financial instrument (para. 46); and
(c) By December 31, 1982, the renewable energy programming study
will be completed (para. 48).
4.   Undertakings of LOCAPOR include:
(a) LOCAPOR to operate under a policy statement, satisfactory to
the Bank, and maintain prudent financial practices, including
term debt/equity ratio of 90/10, debt service coverage ratio
of at least 1.8, and current liabilities other than current
maturities of long-term debt at less than 10 percent of total
liabilities (para. 43);
(b) LOCAPOR to review annually its organizational and staffing
plans with the Bank during the first three years of operation
(para. 43); and
(c) LOCAPOR to establish a revolving fund, whicb would be re-
stricted to financing only energy conservation equipment
(para. 45).



I



A ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ AAC
VtANA DO A T             A 
PORTUGAL                                                                                                               A
DISTRIBUTION OFBAK                                                                         7
PROJECTS BY SECTOI- 
-41'           Petrolewn                                                                                        '~A
Agr;culure                                                                                               f
Fisher                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41'
Forestry                                               AA                       A
A     Edckiwolso
Highways                            AE
L  Industrial                                           -                       -'  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s iSofmonco
FbPwe_rStations
Tronsmission Lines
E.istin  Fecotures:                        OIB
-   Priniory~ Roads..
4      Secondary RoadsA
------   Railwoys                                                                                 A0
sL~~~~   Ports~~~~~~                                                 4  O~~~~~ ...._IOC BRANCO
f Distict iCapitals                                   T,
- internaotional Boundaries                                                I
ToModrid
,b~ANTAREOA0
A TLANT1-iC                                                                               i. . ..
C    /                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~39'
OCLCAN                                                                                        M-d'-'d-,-~~~~~~0Mor  -
OCEAN~~~~~~~A
FISCALFsu                             so       VRA       0 /
PROJECT                     YEAR APPROE 
ELECTRIC POWER I                 1964                                                                            3        ~        P    8
ELECTRIC POWER I[               1964            ...            ...                                              ~ x~>O                 8
CARREGAOOXPOWER  /              .2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  KILOMETERS
CARRAPATELOIPOWER                1966              ......
CARREGADIN3IPOWEI                1966                                        BEJA
POWER XA                         1976  Siiy                                       .~eP                             Bof.jo,4,
HIGHWAYS I                       1977                                                                          lh ~'1h
DEVELOPMiENT FIRIA1CE (6FNI)     1977                                o                                         ieh.oOlhi..dtf           38
LisBON rtEGION WATER SUPPLY      1Sl7& 
EDIJUATIONI                      197&         .1,~moio hteiiioo
AGRICULTUXAL AND FISHEKIIES CREDIT 1979-                                                                       oto        -h.oe0 iCn ood~j-
FERTILIZER MODERNIZATION     - 1979   ODEIAIRA\                                            0_______________
HiIGNWAYSEL                      1979           0          j                                             '/f    04
SMALL AND MEDIUJMSCALE INDUSTRY  1979
DEVELOPMENT                                              .                                                                   FAC
EDUCATIONi If                   1996       I.
FORESTRY                         1980     ,i 
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES           1911     1                                                                               ANDORRA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE (BFN ill     1981                                                                            S PAlI 
PETROLEUM. EXPLORATION           1981   A                                                     o $L/                                       >
Log-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
L                                                           W,~~~~~~~~~8 00   50  .z:.  MOROCCO   - ALGERIA



