OUMCIAL       N NUMBER 2168 PO
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Energy Conservation
and Diversification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA PORTUGUESA DE LOCACAO
FINANCEIRA MOBILIARIA
Dated      Y\                      ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2168 PO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     YoA^4                    , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and COMPANHIA PORTUGUESA DE LOCACAO
FINANCEIRA MOBILIARIA (hereinafter called LOCAPOR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Portugal (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that LOCAPOR
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are here-
inafter set forth;
(B)  by an Agency Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower -and CGD, CGD will act as an agent of the Borrower in
onlending part of the proceeds of the Loan with respect to Parts
A and C of the Project; and
(C)  by a Finance Agreement to be entered into between CGD
and LOCAPOR, part of the proceeds of the Loan will be relent by
CGD to LOCAPOR on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS LOCAPOR, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LOCAPOR shall carry out Part C of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency, in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement and in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, engineering and leasing practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
goods required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.
Section 2.03. (a) LOCAPOR undertakes to make adequate provi-
sion for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by CGD against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by LOCAPOR
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) LOCAPOR shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by CGD to be used exclu-
sively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) LOCAPOR: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part C
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of its
portion of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
its Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
its Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of its Part of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning its Part of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of its Part of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, including quarterly progress
reports within 30 days of each three-month period.


﻿-3-
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account under Part C of the Project, but in any event
not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
the Bank, LOCAPOR shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of its Part of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by LOCAPOR and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
(c) LOCAPOR shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all buildings, property and equipment of LOCAPOR and any
relevant records and documents, concerning the Project and
LOCAPOR's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. LOCAPOR shall duly perform all its obligations
under the LOCAPOR Finance Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, LOCAPOR shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the LOCAPOR Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) LOCAPOR shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) LOCAPOR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by LOCAPOR of its obligations under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LOCAPOR
Section 3.01. (a) LOCAPOR shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in conformity with a policy statement,
satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance with sound admini-
strative, financial and leasing practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-4-
(b) LOCAPOR shall examine annually in consultation with the
Bank, during the first three years of its operations, its organi-
zational and staffing plans for the forthcoming year.
(c) LOCAPOR shall maintain its corporate existence and any
licenses and facilities required to enable it to carry out Part C
of the Project and shall not dispose of any of its assets without
the Bank's consent, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.02. LOCAPOR shall cause its machinery, equipment
and other property to be operated and maintained in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and financial leasing prac-
tices.
Section 3.03. LOCAPOR shall make provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate financial leasing practice.
ARTI'E IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LOCAPOR shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial conditions.
Section 4.02. LOCAPOR shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as sooni as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial st&tements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of LOCAPOR and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request, including unaudited quarterly financial statements with-
in 45 days of the end of each quarter.
Section 4.03. As used in Article IV:


﻿-5-
(a) "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified as
current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited to
accounts payable, customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or mea-
sured by income, other accrued taxes and current maturities of
long-term debt.
(b) ."Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, and interest and other charges
on long-term debt and other debt payable during the period con-
cerned.
(c) "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, sur-
charges and other levies, if any, but before provision for depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(d) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred; and
(i)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the LOCAPOR
Finance Agreement) on the date of such loan con-
tract or agreement; (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only, except
in the case of a guarantee of debt of a subsi-
diary, to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding; and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able by LOCAPOR for the purpose of servicing such
debt or in the absence of such rate of exchange,
another rate acceptable to the Bank.
(e) "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, appropriately valued, legal and free reserves, and other


﻿-6-
retained earnings of LOCAPOR, as computed by the financing
method.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) LOCAPOR shall conduct its operation and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, a ratio
of long-term debt to equity not greater than 90:10;
(b) LOCAPOR shall not incur any long-term debt in any fis-
cal year unless a reasonable forecast of LOCAPOR's revenues and
expenditures shows that its projected net revenues for each full
fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred
or for the following ten years, whichever is shorter, shall be at
least 1.8 times the aggregate projected debt service requirement
in such year on all long-term debt of LOCAPOR.   For purpose of
this paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
by LOCAPOR in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
proposed to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank which both
LOCAPOR and the Bank accept as reasonable, provided no event has
occurred since the Bank's acceptance of such forecast which would
have a material effect on the financial condition or future oper-
ating results of LOCAPOR; and
(c) LOCAPOR shall maintain its current liabilities, other
than the current maturities of its long-term debt, at less than
10% of its total liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of LOCAPOR thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify LOCAPOR thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For LOCAPOR:
Companhia Portuguesa
de Locacao Financeira
Mobiliaria
Rua Rodrigo da Fonseca, 57-5
1200 Lisboa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of LOCAPOR, may be taken or executed by
its Board of Directors or such other person or persons as the
Board of Directors shall designate in writing, and LOCAPOR shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Lisbon,
Republic of Portugal, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/l~
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
COMPANHIA PORTUGUESA DE LOCACAO
FINANCEIRA MOBILIARIA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Leasing Operations
1.   Eligibility Criteria
Energy conservation or diversification equipment to be
financed by LOCAPOR through full-payout leases out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall meet the following criteria:
(a) technical and economic viability, with the economic
viability being demonstrated through simple payback period tests,
with a maximum payback period of 6 years calculated on the basis
of the equipment cost and annual energy savings valued at cif
import price of petroleum;
(b) equipment cost not to exceed Esc. 40 million; and
(c) total staff of company implementing the project not to
exceed 600.
2.   Appraisal and Commitment Procedures
LOCAPOR will prepare an appraisal report composed of suit-
able details on the sponsoring company, project description,
objectives and technical features, the source of the equipment
and its price, payment and delivery terms, the energy savings/
payback period calculated as indicated above, and the lease terms
proposed. In most cases, potential lessees would also have
applied for, and obtained, an energy conservation grant under the
existing energy conservation incentive scheme. In those cases,
most of the data required in the LOCAPOR appraisal report would
already be available at DGE so that the DGE evaluation, if
acceptable to LOCAPOR, could be submitted to the Bank in lieu of
its own separate appraisal report. After the Bank has reviewed
the first five such reports and subject to LOCAPOR's satisfactory
appraisal performance, the Bank will review, ex post, LOCAPOR's
appraisal reports during normal supervision missions. Thereafter,
LOCAPOR will approve the applications based on its appraisal,
without prior approval by the Bank. On the basis of a summary
report, LOCAPOR will send to CGD a statement certifying that, in
its judgement, the equipment is suitable for financing under the
Bank energy conservation leasing facility. The appraisal reports
will be filed by LOCAPOR for review by Bank supervision missions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this //       day of ,&  ,   198
FOR SECRETARY


