Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
January
31,
2002
H.E. Azra Hadziahmetovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala
9, Sarajevo 71000
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:  Council of Europe Development Bank Grant for Co-financing of the 
Pilot Cultural
Heritage Project
Grant Number TF
029809
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the IDA
’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Council of Europe Development Bank, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding nine hundred eighty thousand United States Dollars 
(US$980,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Joseph Ingram
Director
Country Office Bosnia and Herzegovina
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:
 
By Azra Hadziahmetovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Date: 2/12/2002
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to co-finance the Pilot Cultural Heritage Project (Credit Number 
3269-BOS), which has as main objective
 
to improve the climate for reconciliation among the 
constituent peoples of the Recipient through recognition of their common heritage in the City of 
Mostar
(the Project). The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given, namely, is provision 
of financing for the reconstruction of the Mostar Bridge and Tower Complex.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall cause the City of Mostar to: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence 
and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA
’s 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures 
required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish 
to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2. The Recipient shall enter into a subsidiary grant agreement (the Subsidiary Grant Agreement) 
with the City of Mostar and make available to the City of Mostar the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of carrying out the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of  works required for the carrying out of 
the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions 
of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
%
of
Amount of the Grant
Expenditures to
Item
Allocated
(
in U
.
S
.
dollars
)
be Financed
Page  3
Works
980,000
25%
TOTAL
980,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account
:
(i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$98,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 2002; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes 
levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if 
such payment to IDA
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December
31, 2003, or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if 
the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall 
be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Foreign 
Trade and Economic Relations of the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA 
shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign 
withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each 
withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in 
form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the 
Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay 
the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
4.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities.
Page  4
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph
(a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA
’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended. 
6.2. IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment
Procurement
Procurement of Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Page  5
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
”
published by the World Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” and 
“member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and 
“Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Part B.
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 
and
2.10
of the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works, to be awarded on the basis of international 
competitive bidding the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
