                                                                                                          92515
                                                                                                          April 2, 2007




                                                                   Links:
                                                                   - What is IDA?
                                                                   - Our Work in Bosnia and Herzegovina


                                                                   More on Bosnia and Herzegovina:
                                                                   - Borrowing History
                                                                   - Data & Statistics
                                                                   - Research
                                                                   - Contact Us




- In 1566, Ottoman architect Mimar Hajrudin built a stone bridge that spanned the waters of the
Neretva River and came to be known as "Stari Most," or Old Bridge. The initially small Turkish
outpost grew into a city that was eventually named after the bridge–Mostar, or "keeper of the
bridge." The bridge became a symbol of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s historic tolerance for diversity
among its people–until war racked the former Yugoslavia. On November 9, 1993, artillery and
tanks destroyed the bridge, by then one of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s greatest cultural treasures.
- For several years before the beginning of this project, the Bosnia and Herzegovina government
attempted to launch reconstruction efforts for the Old Bridge. However, these efforts were
unsuccessful, due to a lack of technical and financial capacity, as well as the special political and
ethnic sensitivities around the project.




The government approached IDA, hoping that its technical expertise, its role as honest broker
and its capacity to attract and bring together a diverse group of donors and experts, would move
the reconstruction of the bridge and its towers along. This was not a typical IDA infrastructure-
reconstruction or economic development project. Because of the symbolism inherent in the
reconstruction of the Old Bridge, IDA, other donors and the government undertook this project to
promote the climate for reconciliation – the main pre-requisite for economic revitalization and
social cohesion.




The re-opening of the bridge has contributed to the reconciliation of war-divided people
living on the banks of the Neretva river.


Highlights:
- In addition to rebuilding the graceful arch of the bridge and its towers, the project restored other
damaged monuments helping to preserve the character of Mostar’s historic cobble-stoned Old
Town.
- Mostar residents from both banks now meet again in the Old Town to attend concerts,
exhibitions and various other cultural events.
- Tourism has picked up, boosting the local economy: Even before the bridge’s reconstruction,
the war-shattered and ethnically divided town of Mostar was visited by 20,000-25,000 tourists
every year, coming to see the historic bridge’s broken span. Some 300,000 tourist visits were
registered in 2004, 450,000 in 2005 and 750,000 were expected by the end of 2006.
- Tourism has triggered new construction, the opening of new hotels, restaurants and pubs, and
other businesses in Mostar and its surroundings.
- In July 2005, Mostar’s Old Bridge and surrounding Old Town were registered on UNESCO’s list
of historic monuments.




- The total project cost was US$12.5 million, of which IDA provided US$4 million, the government
provided US$2 million, with other donors, including Italy, the Netherlands, Croatia, and the
Council of Europe Development Bank, providing the rest.
- IDA assembled a unique partnership to carry out the project–this included the local community,
national and regional governments, UNESCO, the World Monuments Fund (WMF), and the Aga
Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), as well as several donor countries, along with IDA. In this case,
the convening strength of IDA was as valuable as its direct financial and technical support.




Although IDA financing ended more than two years ago, project activities on the ground
continue, as local authorities continue working on the restoration and maintenance of the Old
Town. In accordance with the project agreement, the Project Implementation Unit has been
transformed into an agency that is responsible for management and maintenance of the restored
Old Town, and further development of city’s tourist capacities.




Pilot Cultural Heritage Project (1999-2004)
Project documents
