Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4067 
Operation Name 
Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 5) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); Sub-national 
government administration (20%); General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%); General industry and trade sector (10%); 
General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P107313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
929, Rua da Marginal 
Mozambique 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 28, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 13, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mozambique needs to implement growth-enhancing reforms and challenging institutional reforms to 
avoid a slow down in growth in the medium-term.  Mozambique appears to be well placed to experience 
a
long period of sustained per capita growth. It would be hazardous, however, to assume a “business as 
usual” rate of 7 percent, because such “growth spurts” rarely extend more than a few years, 
Mozambique faces meteorological and other risk, the agricultural catch-up is now exhausted and the 
sector is growing at a lesser rate than it did before. Most of the “easy” growth-enhancing reforms have 
been done, and aid is projected to fall as a share of GDP.  The likely growth scenarios for the future – 
and the corresponding poverty scenarios – will heavily depend on the Government’s role in warding off 
threats to continued growth, as well as its role in seizing new opportunities for growth. Only rapid 
progress in certain key reforms, can keep the growth rate as high as 7 or 8 percent in the medium term, 
and continue the rapid rate poverty reduction of the past decade.   
 
It is critical therefore that the Government pursues a reform program to resolve the key challenges to 
growth and poverty reduction.  The 2005 CEM identifies key constraints to accelerating shared growth 
are the weak public financial management, the need for key institutional reforms, a poor climate for 
private sector development, the lack of adequate infrastructure, the low smallholder agricultural 
productivity, the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and the need to improve significantly the 
management of natural resources.  Most of these challenges have been articulated in the PARPA-II, and 
are part of the government program, which is supported by this PRSC series. 
 
In September 2006, the Government formally adopted the Second Poverty Reduction Strategy (PARPA 
II). PARPA II is the operational plan for the governments’ Five-Year Program (2005-2009), and sets out 
a
broad and ambitious agenda of reforms. PARPA II builds on the experience of PARPA I, and was 
prepared through broad-based consultations with major stakeholders and civil society. The PARPA II 
Page  2
for the first time includes a strategic matrix of key indicators, a joint effort by the government, donors 
and civil society.  
 
While maintaining its commitment to improve quality and access to social services, PARPA II 
recognizes that “rapid, sustainable and broad-based growth” warrants more emphasis on the growth of 
the productive and private sectors.  The strategy envisages small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as the 
engine of employment generation. Rural development has a central place in the strategy.  An essential 
role is attributed to districts as the focus of development.  There is also a clear recognition of the 
challenges related to HIV/AIDS, with a credible strategy for accelerating the national response to the 
AIDS pandemic. Overall, the priority areas for public policy to sustain growth and poverty reduction, 
and improve service delivery are arranged under three pillars:  (i) governance; (ii) human capital; and 
(iii) economic development. 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board in May 
2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the PARPA II is through the 
FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS; Report No. 39395-Moz). As government policies and 
budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank is committed to supporting and 
aligning with the budget process. The indicative lending scenario of the CPS envisages programmatic 
support through four consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing 
accountability and public voice and fostering sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the 
government program, and as reflected in the CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes 
the centrality of the new growth agenda and the importance of accelerating shared growth through 
infrastructure, rural and private sector development, and enhanced governance reforms.  The PRSC 
series is also well aligned with the Bank’s principles on conditionality, namely (i) reinforce ownership; 
(ii) strengthen harmonization; (iii) customize program to country circumstances; (iv) select only critical 
actions; and (v) ensure transparency and predictability of process. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-5) is the third in a PRSC series designed 
to assist the Government of Mozambique (GoM) to implement key policy actions outlined in its Second 
Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (known as PARPA II by its Portuguese acronym) and 
in the Performance Assessment Framework agreed by the Government and the 19 external partners that 
provide general budget support (GBS) to GoM. PARPA II is mainly focused on shared growth and on 
the need for decentralization. Within this context, PRSC-5 is expected to help the GoM in: (a) the 
consolidation and deepening of the institutional reforms in the area of macroeconomic management; (b) 
reforms in governance by supporting decentralization to enhance public investments and service 
delivery at the provincial and district level, and by supporting public sector reform; and (c) economic 
development by removing constraints to growth, such as infrastructure, and promoting agricultural 
growth. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-5) is the third operation in a series of three 
annual operations supporting the implementation of the PARPA II.    The design and objectives of the 
PRSC series were elaborated in the Program Document for the PRSC-3 (IDA Report No. 37970-MZ, 
December 19, 2006). 
 
The PRSC series is fully harmonized within the joint donor (G19) mechanism for the provision of 
general budget support.  All the prior actions and triggers of the PRSC series are indicators contained in 
Page  3
the PAF. IDA’s focus will be geared at specific areas, which are a subset of the PAF (which itself is a 
subset of the strategic matrix of PARPA II). This is an important feature of the proposed operations as, 
by relying on the PAF, the PRSC series will remain consistent with the government’s own monitoring 
framework and will also be in line with donor harmonization for general budget support.   
 
The PRSC series supports a strategic subset of objectives from the PARPA II results matrix.  As 
intermediate outcomes the PRSC series supports improvements in: 
(1) Macroeconomic management: Consolidate and deepen institutional reforms to strengthen public 
financial management system.   
(2) Reforms in governance: Support public sector reform, and also accelerate 
decentralization/deconcentration to enhance service delivery at the provincial and district level, 
and empower communities.  
(3) Economic development: Improve the business environment, by removing constraints to growth, 
such as infrastructure, and promoting agricultural growth.  
 
The PRSC-5 supports specific ongoing reforms which are part of the above program.  The PRSC-5 
supports reforms to improve macroeconomic management by aligning the budget with economic policy 
priorities expressed in the PARPA and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), continuing 
the rollout of e-SISTAFE, strengthening the Central Revenue Authority, continuing the implementation 
of the new State procurement system, and increasing the coverage and efficiency of internal and external 
audit bodies.  The reforms to improve governance focus on creating the single registry of State officials 
and civil servants, as a basis to create an integrated payroll management system, and approving the 
national program of capacity building for decentralized planning and finance.  Finally, in terms of 
economic development, the PRSC-5 supports the government’s efforts to increase the amount of road 
maintenance and rehabilitation, expanding the irrigated area, and expanding the number of farmers who 
benefit from extension services, in order to increase the adoption of new technology. 
 
The triggers (and prior actions) have been selected based on their criticality for contributing to achieve 
the PARPA-II objectives. The criteria reflect the following two broad principles: (i) The trigger entails a 
policy or institutional reform which is critical to remove a key constraint to poverty reduction and 
growth (based on the findings of existing analytical work), or is an implementation activity of a reform 
initiated earlier; (ii) The trigger is part of the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), and the 
assessment can be done easily, e.g. verifying whether a law or some regulation has been approved. (All 
assessments requiring performance data and analysis are done during the Joint Review.) 
 
The program supported by the PRSC series has been informed by a significant amount of analytical 
work completed over the past few years. A summary of the main analytical studies which have informed 
the design of the PRSC series was discussed in the PRSC-3 document.   The policies and reforms 
supported by the PRSC focus on the challenges to sustained growth and poverty reduction in 
Mozambique which have been identified in the studies. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Environmental impacts of policies supported by the PRSC-4 are expected to be minimal. As discussed in 
the Program Document for PRSC-3, the PRSC series supports policy actions that should create the 
enabling environment to support poverty reduction, and by themselves do not have a significant 
environmental impact. However, it is expected that regular investment activities will benefit from such 
policy actions.  Potential environmental impacts of such interventions are analyzed and monitored by the 
responsible authority, notably in the case of roads, agricultural production, and irrigation.  
 
Page  4
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
90 
 Total 
90 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / 258-21-482-371 
Fax:  
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD)
 
