Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4528 - MOZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 11, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4528 - MOZ 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 11, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, inter alia, of:  (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this agreement (the Agreement). 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the  Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty seven million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 57 300 000) (variously 
“Credit” 
and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and Development. 
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministério da Planificação e Desenvolvimento  
Caixa Postal 4087 
21 Av. Ahmed Sekou Touré 
 
Maputo 
 
Republic of Mozambique  
 Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 MEF 
 
    257 
MEF 
B1 
+258-21492625 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Maputo, Republic of Mozambique, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By  /s/  Aiuba Cuereneia 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
By  /s/ Michael Baxter 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The MOF has confirmed that the total allocation to priority sectors in the 2008 
budget is in line with the MTEF. 
2. 
The MOF has rolled out the basic functionality of e-SISTAFE to 24 ministries by 
end 2007. 
3. 
The MOF has continued the implementation of new procurement system up to 
the district level by ensuring that the monitoring system is operational, and 
allows performance measurements establishing baselines for a monitoring system 
which allows performance measurements (as indicated by: (i) availability of 
information on public purchases available from UFSA that show that at least 
50% of contracts of the public sector were subject to public tender in accordance 
with the current Mozambican procurement legislation; (ii) information on other 
modalities of contract with the due justification in at least 90% at the central level 
and 50% at the district and provincial level communicated to UFSA; (iii) the 
process of complaints, as defined in the current Mozambican procurement 
legislation, is operational and UFSA has data on the process and decisions 
available). 
4. 
The MOF has ensured that at least 25 percent of central and provincial level 
bodies have operational internal audit units (also referred to as
 ‘internal control 
units’) in 2007. 
5. 
The Recipient’s Court of Accounts (
Tribunal Administrativo, TA
)
has concluded 
its opinion of at least 90 financial audits of Ministries and State agencies in 2007. 
6. 
The Ministry of Planning and Development has approved the National Program 
for Decentralized Planning and Finance. 
7. 
The MFP has created the single registry of State officials and civil servants 
(
Cadastro Unico dos Funcionários Publicos, CUF
). 
8. 
The Social Security Institute (
Instituto Nacional de Segurança Social, INSS
)
has 
completed the actuarial study and the elaboration of its investment strategy. 
Page  6
5
9. 
The MINAG has increased access to technologies and extension by ensuring that 
at least 222,300 small scale farmers have been assisted by public extension 
services in 2007, including sub-contracting. 
10. 
The Council of Ministers has approved the Medium Term Expenditure 
Framework 2009-2011 (
Cenário Fiscal de Médio Prazo 2009-2011)
,
which 
envisages an increase in the allocation to agricultural sector to at least 6 percent 
of the budget (excluding projects) in 2009, and at least 7 percent in 2010. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
           57 300 000   
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
57 300 000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the 
Recipient’s budget management system referred to in Part C of this Section 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
6
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than three 
months after the end
 of the Recipient’s Fiscal Year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their 
audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time 
that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is October 31, 2009. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing April 15, 2019 to and including October 
15, 2028 
1% 
commencing April 15, 2029 to and including October 
15, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“e-SISTAFE” means the Recipient’s electronic integrated financial management system. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Page  10
9
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Information Technology Development Plan” means 
Autoridade Tributária de 
Moçambique’s
 
technology development plan. 
5. 
“IGF” means 
Inspecao Geral de Finanzas
,
the Recipient’s Inspectorate General at the 
MOF (as hereinafter defined). 
6. 
“MFP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Civil Service, or any successor thereto. 
Page  11
10 
 
7. 
“MINAG” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, or any successor thereto. 
8. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto. 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated September 18, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
10. 
“Recipient’s Fiscal Year” means the yearly period from January 1 to December 31.  
11. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
12. “UFSA” 
means 
Unidade Funcional de Supervisão das Aquisições
,
MOF’s Procurement 
Unit. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  12
11 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
