Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4108 
Operation Name 
Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); Sub-national 
government administration (20%); General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%); General industry and trade sector (10%); 
General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P107313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
929, Rua da Marginal 
Mozambique 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 21, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
November 6, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has been a very strong performer in Africa, with rapid growth and poverty 
reduction, as it recovers steadily from the damage of the civil war.  Following political 
stabilization and market-oriented reforms, and steady improvements in infrastructure, the 
economy has registered an average annual growth rate of 8 percent between 1996 and 2007, and 
incomes have risen considerably.  The poverty headcount index has fallen from 69 percent in 
1996/97 to 54 percent in 2002/03. In addition to the major reduction in poverty, other social 
indicators have also shown significant improvements. Economic expansion has been made 
possible by overall macroeconomic stability, policy reforms and continuing strong donor 
support, permitting broad-based expansion across most sectors of the economy, and a series of 
significant foreign investment projects (“megaprojects”).  
Despite the promising progress, significant challenges remain. The country remains poor ($386 
per capita income in 2007), infrastructure is inadequate, and social indicators are low. While 
Mozambique has been very successful in achieving a major reduction in poverty, by 15.3 
percentage points between 1996 and 2003, nevertheless the south region of the country has 
experienced an increase in poverty rates, especially in the city of Maputo and the surrounding 
province. Adult literacy rates are low (approximately 47 percent), chronic malnutrition amongst 
children does not appear to be improving, and life expectancy at birth (42 years) is one of the 
lowest in Africa.  Despite economic growth, malnutrition has worsened in Mozambique between 
1997 and 2006, with the malnutrition rate among children under the age of five rising from 36 to 
46 per cent (FAO, June 2008).  The country also relies heavily on foreign aid, which makes up 
about half of its overall budget. Additionally, the impact of HIV/AIDS and malaria on the 
population has serious consequences.  Malaria alone accounts for 35 percent of deaths among 
children below five years of age, 60 percent of admissions in pediatric wards, and 40 percent of 
overall outpatient consultations.  It has been found that in Sub-Saharan Africa, malaria reduces 
GDP growth by an estimated average of 1.3 percent per year.  As for HIV/AIDS, current 
Page  2
projections indicate that in 2010 the Mozambican economy will be 14-20 percent smaller than it 
would otherwise be due to the impact of HIV/AIDS.   
Mozambique is likely to achieve the poverty Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Assuming that the current trend continues, Mozambique is expected to halve the population 
living in absolute poverty by 2015.  As mentioned, however, reducing hunger and child 
malnutrition remains a challenge.  The MDG for sustainable coverage for water supply is also 
likely to be met, with rapid improvements in the provision of urban water supply, although 
significant progress is needed to increase access to water in rural areas.  There has also been 
substantial progress toward other MDG targets, specifically on improving universal primary 
education, gender equality and women’s empowerment, reducing child mortality, and improving 
maternal health. Nevertheless, more progress will be required to meet these MDGs, while 
combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases remains a serious challenge. A detailed 
discussion of progress towards each MDG was included in the PRSC-3 Program Document.  
Constraints to private sector development and trade remain substantial, but progress is being 
made to improve the business environment. Mozambique was among the top five reforming 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa in the 2008 Ease of Doing Business rank, as reflected by an 
improvement in its ranking by 6 places to 134
th
 out of 175 countries. Mozambique is 129
th
 (out 
of 203) on the 2007 Governance Survey Overall Index, surpassing the SSA and low income 
group averages on all four aspects of the index (government effectiveness, regulatory quality, 
rule of law, and control of corruption). The country’s secondary school (7.1 percent, in 2005) 
and tertiary (1.2 percent, in 2004) enrollment rates are only a fraction of the comparators’ 
countries.  Mozambique is ranked 110th out of 150 countries on the 2007 Trade Logistics 
Performance Index.  Its weakest indicators are quality of transport and IT infrastructures.  The 
Government’s development and poverty reduction strategy focuses on tackling many of these 
concerns. 
Progress in public sector governance has been limited. Despite some progress, implementation of 
public sector reforms program, including decentralization, remains relatively slow. 
Improvements in the efficiency and transparency of the justice system remain elusive, and 
corruption and conflict-of-interest remain central issues. Government's response has mainly 
focused on improving transparency and accountability based on a comprehensive public 
financial management reform program. 
The medium-term macroeconomic outlook is positive, but faces risks from continued increase in 
the international food and oil prices, and the upcoming elections period. The medium-term 
outlook is characterized by continued strong economic growth, moderate inflation, and 
sustainable fiscal and external positions.  The second review of performance under the PSI 
program concluded in May 2008 that the prospects for 2008 remained favorable, including for 
strong growth, single digit inflation, and the maintenance of a sustainable external and fiscal 
situation, as the Government is committed to take the necessary fiscal measures and pursue a 
monetary program consistent with a further reduction of inflation.  The Government is also 
committed to take measures to continue to strengthen the banking system, foster private sector 
development and move forward the public sector reform. After recording an 8.5 percent growth 
in 2006, real GDP growth continued to grow at 7 percent in 2007, and GDP growth is expected 
to be slightly below 7 percent in the next three years. The leading sector would be agriculture, 
followed by wholesale and retail trade, and also transport and communications, and construction.  
The Parliamentary and Presidential elections in Mozambique are scheduled in late 2009 (and 
Page  3
municipal elections are scheduled in November 2008). Approaching the elections, the 
Government will need to resist pressures for additional spending that are not sustainable, and 
prevent a reduction in the level of revenues collection (as happened in 2004).   
For the longer term, Mozambique needs to implement growth-enhancing reforms and 
challenging institutional reforms to avoid a slow down in growth in the medium-term.  Beyond 
the growth challenges posed by commodity inflation, there are also some internal challenges to 
future growth, and it would be hazardous t
o
assume a ‘business as usual’ rate of 7 percent. Most 
of these challenges have been articulated in the PARPA-II, and are part of the government 
program, which is supported by this PRSC series.  It would be hazardous, however, to assume a 
“business as usual” rate of 7 percent, because such “growth spurts” rarely extend more than a 
few years, Mozambique faces meteorological and other risk, the agricultural catch-up is now 
exhausted and the sector is growing at a lesser rate than it did before. Most of the “easy” growth-
enhancing reforms have been done, and aid is projected to fall as a share of GDP.  The likely 
growth scenarios for the future – and the corresponding poverty scenarios – will heavily depend 
on the Government’s role in warding off threats to continued growth, as well as its role in seizing 
new opportunities for growth. Only rapid progress in certain key reforms, can keep the growth 
rate as high as 7 or 8 percent in the medium term, and continue the rapid rate poverty reduction 
of the past decade.  For instance, the 2005 CEM estimates that Mozambique could enhance its 
growth performance by improving its business climate to East Asian levels. Gains of up to 1 
percentage point per annum could be made by avoiding banking crises, or by improving 
governance, or by reducing government nonproductive spending.  Bigger gains of up to 3 
percentage points per annum could be secured by – in time – improving infrastructure, or by 
raising access to secondary education.  The Bank is now working on a new Country Economic 
Memorandum (to be completed in FY09) which concentrates on competitiveness promotion and 
trade integration as vehicles for higher productivity growth and wealth generation.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The PRSC series supports a strategic subset of objectives from the PARPA II results matrix.  As 
intermediate outcomes the PRSC series supports improvements in: 
(1) 
Macroeconomic management: Consolidate and deepen institutional reforms to 
strengthen public financial management system.   
(2) 
Reforms in governance: Support public sector reform, and also accelerate 
decentralization/deconcentration to enhance service delivery at the provincial and district 
level, and empower communities.  
(3) 
Economic development: Improve the business environment, by removing 
constraints to growth, such as infrastructure, and promoting agricultural growth.  
 
The PRSC-5 supports specific ongoing reforms which are part of the above program, and also 
supports the Government’s response to the higher food and fuel prices.  The PRSC-5 supports 
reforms to improve macroeconomic management by aligning the budget with economic policy 
priorities expressed in the PARPA and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), 
continuing the rollout of e-SISTAFE, strengthening the Central Revenue Authority, continuing 
the implementation of the new State procurement system, and increasing the coverage and 
efficiency of internal and external audit bodies.  The reforms to improve governance focus on 
creating the single registry of State officials and civil servants, as a basis to create an integrated 
Page  4
payroll management system, and approving the national program of capacity building for 
decentralized planning and finance.  In terms of economic development, the PRSC-5 supports 
the government’s efforts to increase the amount of road maintenance and rehabilitation, 
expanding the irrigated area, and expanding the number of farmers who benefit from extension 
services, in order to increase the adoption of new technology. Finally, the PRSC-5 also supports 
the implementation of the Government policy response to the higher global food and fuel prices. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board 
in May 2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the PARPA II is 
through the Mozambique FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (discussed May 30, 2007).  As 
government policies and budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank 
is committed to supporting and aligning with the budget process. The indicative lending scenario 
of the CPS envisages programmatic support through four consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on 
supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing accountability and public voice and fostering 
sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the government program, and as reflected in the 
CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes the centrality of the new growth 
agenda and the importance of accelerating shared growth through infrastructure, rural and private 
sector development, and enhanced governance reforms.  The PRSC series is also well aligned 
with the Bank’s principles on conditionality, namely (i) reinforce ownership; (ii) strengthen 
harmonization; (iii) customize program to country circumstances; (iv) select only critical actions; 
and (v) ensure transparency and predictability of process.   
 
Development policy lending will be complemented by investment support and technical 
assistance. PRSC support will continue to coexist with investment support to well-articulated 
sector programs, and with technical assistance to develop government systems and capacities 
necessary for an increased reliance on them.  IDA’s investment portfolio, with 17 projects, is 
diverse and supports the three pillars of the CPS. As of June 2007, total IDA commitments were 
$783 million. The PRSC series supports PFM and public sector reforms, embraces the new 
growth agenda, and supports the Government’s focus on development at the district level. These 
objectives are also supported by several IDA projects, thereby creating strong synergies. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
90 
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund 
10 
 Total 
100 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank’s supervision of the PRSCs is aligned with the supervision of the joint General Budget 
Support program of the G19 (for details see website: 
http://www.pap.org.mz/
). In order to 
reduce the transaction costs for the Government, the Bank carries out all supervision jointly with 
Page  5
the other donors. It participates in the Troika Plus (consisting of three donors/a chair/co-chair 
and outgoing chair, forming the troika chairmanship 
–
EC and WB are permanent members, thus 
forming the Troika Plus), the overall coordination mechanism set up by the G-19, and all the 
relevant coordination meetings. All Bank sector missions working for the PRSC team liaise 
closely with and through the respective joint sector working groups to assure maximum 
coordination with all other sector partners. 
 
The MoU defines two key review events per year. A Joint Review takes place each year in April 
(year n). It assesses the performance of the government in the previous budget year, which 
corresponds to the calendar year (year n-1). The review focuses on evaluating progress with 
regard to the indicators defined in the Performance Assessment Framework and makes an overall 
assessment of progress. The second event is the Mid-Year Review in September. This review is 
mainly forward-looking and formalizes the agreement on the performance indicators and targets 
for the following year (year n+1).  Both the Joint and the Mid-Year Review are a multi-sector 
exercises, and Bank staff participate in all relevant sectors. The reviews are prepared at the 
technical level by the various joint sector working groups. 
 
In addition, the supervision of the PRSC is done on a continuous basis in harmonization with the 
other general budget support donors. The Task Team Leader for the operation is based in the 
field, and participates in all relevant coordination and the monthly joint government-donor 
steering committee meetings.  Progress in each sector is monitored by joint government-donor 
sector working groups.  Bank staff actively participates in these meetings through its staff in the 
field offices and Washington (through missions or by videoconference). Furthermore, the Bank 
participates in joint IMF-Bank missions to monitor progress in the macroeconomic framework. 
The Bank and the Fund also monitor jointly progress in implementing the PARPA-II. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
 The operation will help the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability while it 
continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from domestic sources. The 
reforms would enable Mozambique to make further progress in reducing absolute poverty, 
improving the delivery of services and achieving the MDGs. The alignment with the general 
budget support programs of 18 other donors and a joint focus on the priorities set out by the 
Government in its comprehensive poverty reduction strategy, and on a common set of indicators 
to measure progress, should help  improve the resource flow and improve aid effectiveness, 
thereby enhancing the chances of progress towards the MDGs. 
 
Risks:
 A
first set of risks is concerned with the potential for macroeconomic instability, due to 
the sharp increase in food and fuel prices, potential spillover effects from crises in neighboring 
countries, and the upcoming political elections in 2009.  In this respect the Bank is proposing to 
increase the level of budget support to contribute to the mitigation response package planned by 
the Government, focusing on boosting agricultural production.  The Parliamentary and 
Presidential elections in Mozambique are scheduled in late 2009 (and municipal elections are 
scheduled in November 2008).  Approaching the elections, the Government will need to resist 
pressures for additional spending that are not sustainable, and prevent a reduction in the level of 
revenues collection (as happened in 2004).  To mitigate the risks of fiscal slippage due to 
Page  6
political pressure in the run-up to the 2009 elections, the PRSC program (and the PAF), supports 
the efforts by the Government to strengthen PFM systems, which increase transparency and 
reduce the country’s vulnerability to fiscal slippage.   
A
second set of risks concerns weak administrative capacity to implement public sector reforms 
and move ahead with decentralization.  To mitigate this risk, the Government and donors agreed 
during the Joint Review to develop an integrated strategy for capacity development in public 
finance management, and to strengthen the coordination and management of reforms.  In 
addition, to strengthen capacity at the district level and to improve control mechanisms 
(auditing), the Government has finalized its program for capacity building at the decentralized 
level. The development partners, including IDA, are now discussing with Government the 
preparation of a national program that is expected to deliver capacity building and oversight 
more effectively.  
A
third set of risks concerns a deterioration in governance that could compromise economic 
reforms and poverty reduction efforts. To mitigate this risk, IDA is increasing its activities in the 
areas of Governance. At the request of the Government, jointly with other partners, the Bank has 
provided technical assistance to the Government on how to maximize the benefits from mega-
projects and the exploitation of Mozambique’s natural resources.  In addition, the restructured 
Public Sector Reform Project has a new legal sector capacity building component.  
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSC series supports policy actions that create the enabling environment to support poverty 
reduction, and which by themselves do not have a significant environmental impact. It is 
expected, however, that regular investment activities will benefit from such policy actions, and 
may therefore have stronger impacts on both poverty and the environment.  The legal framework 
for the environment is relatively well developed in Mozambique. The framework for 
environmental management in Mozambique is defined by the Law of the Environment (Law n° 
20/97), which applies to all public and private activities that may influence environmental 
aspects. All activities that may result in a significant impact on the environment are subject to an 
Environmental Impact Assessment, which has to precede any issuing of licenses and investment 
activity. The Ministry for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) is the main 
entity responsible for conducting Environmental Impact Assessments. The capacity of MICOA, 
however, is limited due to financial and technical capacity constraints, and the potential 
environmental impacts of such interventions is analyzed and monitored by the responsible 
authority. For example, in the case of the rehabilitation and construction of the road network, the 
National Roads Authority has received institutional strengthening for environmental 
management under the Bank-supported Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance 
Program, in particular through the social and environmental unit of the National Roads 
Authority.  A similar situation prevails in the case of the expansion of irrigated agriculture. The 
Ministry of Agriculture has received much support – including from the Bank – to build up its 
capacity to carry out EIA’s. The institutional framework for the water sector is largely consistent 
with international good practice, and includes the ongoing establishment of Regional Water 
Administrations (ARAs) responsible for water resource management. Some additional details are 
provided below: 
 
Page  7
·
Roads rehabilitation and maintenance:
 IDA’s project on Roads and Bridges Management 
and Maintenance Project (RBMMP) finances routine and periodic maintenance of the 
national road network through a pooled fund, while construction and rehabilitation are 
funded directly by IDA investment lending. As part of this operation, the Bank has 
already verified the government capacity to adequately address and mitigate any 
environmental risks.  
 
·
Irrigation:
 Although IDA is not presently involved in financing irrigation in 
Mozambique (a project focusing on the development of irrigation is in the pipeline for 
FY09), irrigation investments are part of the second phase of the government’s National 
Agricultural Program (PROAGRI II), and is funded by a group of development partners. 
As part of the PROAGRI II a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been 
carried out in order to provide the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) and other 
stakeholders with a tool for strategic management of environment issues that will result 
in the implementation of PROGAGRI II. An action plan to mitigate potential negative 
impacts has been prepared as part of the SEA. Moreover, it should be emphasized that 
since the late 1990s until present, MINAG has been emphasizing small scale irrigation 
projects (2 to 20ha), which are less likely to have significant environmental impacts.  
 
·
Extension systems and Integrated Pest Management (IPM):
 While the Bank is not 
directly involved in supporting the extension in Mozambique, the relevant Government 
departments are aware and able to address any negative effects related to the use of new 
technologies in agricultural production. The government’s extension system supports 
IPM. During the PROAGRI I, an environmental unit was created within MINAG, which 
pushed for the establishment of IPM and safe use of pesticides. This environmental unit 
also trained public and private sector extension staff on management of pesticides.  A 
Pilot Plan for IPM was started and implemented, and the plan is currently being revised 
in order to scale up implementation.   
 
The Bank team is working to strengthen the capacity of the Government to carry out 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA). 
Starting in FY09 the Bank team has started a Technical Assistance activity to help the 
government to develop and implement appropriate policies in the areas of natural resources, 
environment and adaptation to climate change.  In this context, the Bank is financing a 
stocktaking to identify the needs for Mozambique in terms of Environmental Impact Assessment 
(EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), the two tools that are needed to put in 
place mitigation measures to address potential adverse environmental impact related to physical 
investment or policy reforms in a given sector.  The activity is closely coordinated with MICOA 
and the G19 partners, in the context of the five joint sector and sub-sector working groups 
(environment, adaptation, fishery, forestry, biodiversity), with a view to facilitate the 
coordination of capacity building activities to boost capacity in conducting EIAs and SEAs. 
Beyond the need to ensure that the environmental impacts of reform supported by the PRSC is 
mitigated, the sustainable use of Mozambique's natural resources (land, mining, fisheries, 
forestry, water) represents a great opportunity for poverty reduction as well as social and 
economic development, and needs to be strengthened.  As outlined in the 2005 CEM, public 
revenues from natural resource rents could be increased from USD31 million to USD82 million 
Page  8
per year under current economic conditions, mostly by improving transparency and fairness in 
the issuing of licenses, quotas and concessions and in the collection and use of revenue. 
Sustainable exploitation of natural resources by communities and individuals should be 
promoted to contribute directly to poverty reduction and livelihood security.  Investments in 
extractive and exploitative industries can promote further growth and economic activity through 
providing markets for local goods and services as well as inputs for processing industries.  
Licensing and taxation of natural resource use can provide significant revenue for Government, 
which in turn, can support funding development and poverty reduction programs, especially 
where (local and global) market demand and prices allow significant margins.  However 
managing these resources is complex. While GOM legislation and policies recognize and seek to 
facilitate the role of different models of resource use for poverty reduction and development, 
little attention has been given to the specific mechanisms for: (i) access, (ii) promoting efficient 
use and (iii) monitoring and compliance with existing norms. This has lead to a situation where 
regulations appear to have produced unnecessarily complex procedures that create opportunities 
for rent seeking and corruption, harming both the poor and private commercial interests. Over 
the next few years IDA, in collaboration with the IMF and other development partners, will work 
closely with Government to maximize the benefits from the sustainable exploitation of natural 
resource.  An important step to enhance the revenue collection efforts was the approval by the 
parliament in December 2006 of the new laws on the fiscal regimes for the mining and oil 
sectors, which have become effective in mid-2007. 
 
Analysis has been carried out of the impacts of growth on poverty reduction. As highlighted in 
the Program Document for PRSC-3 the poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by the 
series is expected to be significant, increasing the likelihood that Mozambique will reach the first 
Millennium Development Goal. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / +258-21-48-2371 
Fax: +258-21-492893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
