Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4541 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit I 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General industry and 
trade sector (20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%);General finance sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P107218 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL PLANNING 
Ministry of Finance and National Planning 
Chimanga Road, PO Box 50062, 
Lusaka 
Zambia 
Tel:  (260-1) 253-512 Fax: (260-1) 251-078 
NA 
Date PID Prepared 
February 10, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 16, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Despite a recent period of fast growth much of Zambia’s economic history has been characterized by 
very slow growth, and the country experienced declines in both income per capita and living standards 
in most of the first four decades after independence in 1964.  Following moderate growth between 1964 
and 1972 fueled by rising copper prices, the economy stagnated in the 1980s and 1990s due to a highly 
inefficient degree of state control over the economy.  After 1996 the economy began to grow slowly as a 
result of a relatively stable macroeconomic environment supported by sound macroeconomic policies.  
Even then, GDP per capita in 1999 measured at constant terms was only equivalent to 50 percent of 
GDP per capita in 1965.  By 2007 this figure had increased to 64 percent.  Poor growth has also 
translated into falling living standards.  Zambia’s rank in the UN Human Development Index for 2007-
08 is 165 out of 177  
 
The recent period of macroeconomic stability with low inflation and low fiscal deficits follows a long 
history of struggling with large macroeconomic imbalances and a lack of consistency in the 
implementation of reforms.  On the fiscal front, the government had typically adjusted expenditures by 
constraining investment spending and increasing arrears, which generated large quasi-fiscal obligations 
in the 1990s. 
 
Zambia completed its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper in 2002 and has drafted a Fifth National 
Development Plan (FNDP) for 2006-2010.  The PRSP focused on promoting growth in key sectors 
(particularly those associated with rural poverty), diversifying both output and exports, improving 
economic and political governance, macroeconomic stabilization, social services delivery, and the 
strengthening of private investment.  The FNDP for 2006-2010 is intended to emphasize labor-intensive 
growth supported by macroeconomic stability, infrastructure investment, and improved social services 
for the poor. 
 
Page  2
The government’s FNDP, supported by the 2009-11 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), 
identifies several key fiscal and macroeconomic targets: (i) to maintain overall macroeconomic stability; 
(ii) to keep government borrowing at sustainable levels; (iii) to promote economic diversification; (iv) to 
increase investment in human capital; and (v) to enhance the competitiveness of the Zambian economy.  
In order to achieve these objectives, the government has announced that it will continue to implement 
prudent fiscal, monetary, financial and external policies. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objectives of this operation will be to contribute towards preserving macro-economic stability and 
improving public sector performance, and supporting broad-based growth by improving efficiency in the 
agricultural and energy sectors.  In support of these objectives, the program will pursue a number of 
outcome indicators in macroeconomic management, public sector reform, public finance management, 
agriculture and energy. 
 
The PRSC program will support the broad reform agenda in the areas of pension reform, the clearing of 
domestic arrears, compensation reform, payroll management and budget execution.  Progress in these 
areas will enable the country to achieve some of the broad macroeconomic objectives of fiscal 
sustainability and the reduction of domestic debt to sustainable levels, as well as promoting financial and 
budgetary accountability.  
 
The PRSC program aims to support government structural reforms that will enable private sector driven 
pro-poor and broad-based growth.  In this regard, the credit will support government reforms in 
agricultural marketing that will enable increased private sector participation in the agricultural economy 
and reforms in the energy sector focusing on increasing efficiency and expanding access.  Improved 
efficiency in the energy sector will provide the appropriate framework for much-needed investment in 
the sector, which will be crucial to Zambia’s economic growth. 
 
This operation will focus on supporting components of the government program in the areas of wealth 
creation, macroeconomic management and public sector reform. These components will contribute to 
the results specified in the CAS and FNDP.  Accordingly, the proposed program has selected eight prior 
actions in the areas mentioned above.  These are: 
Macroeconomic Management: 
-
The Ministry of Finance has reduced contribution arrears owed by the government to the Public Sector 
Pension Fund (PSPF) to not more that two months of the value of the employer contribution. 
Public Sector Reform: 
-
Under the Public Sector Management (PSM) reform program, the government has drafted a 
performance-based pay policy that supports and reinforces improved service delivery. 
-
The government has implemented a payroll management and establishment control system in 13 
central agencies and 3 additional Ministries, Parastatals, and Spending Agencies (MPSAs). 
Public Finance Management: 
-
The Ministry of Finance has ensured greater predictability of budget execution by ensuring that 
82 percent of head agencies have calculated expenditure between 95 and 105 percent of total funding for 
fiscal year 2008.  
-
The Ministry of Finance has reduced domestic arrears to suppliers to K120 billion as at end 2008. 
Agriculture: 
-
The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives has tabled the Agricultural Marketing Act to Parliament 
for discussion 
Energy: 
-
In order to improve access to electricity the government has agreed to the inclusion of an indicator in 
the PAF 2008-2010 that monitors the number of new customers added to the electric utility grid. 
Page  3
-
In order to improve efficiency the government has agreed to the inclusion of an indicator in the PAF 
2008-2010 that monitors the reduction in number of unmetered customers.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
(a) Preserving macroeconomic stability and improving public sector performance  
Until the recent downturn in the economy, spurred by the global financial crisis in 2008, the government 
made moderate efforts in attaining macroeconomic stability in the last few years, however challenges 
still remain.  Fiscal sustainability must be maintained in order to preserve the gains from 
macroeconomic stability. The FNDP recognizes that critical areas of concern remain, particularly with 
respect to the high domestic debt and an insolvent public pension scheme, which poses a threat to fiscal 
sustainability. In addressing these concerns, the government has been taking steps to reduce domestic 
debt by clearing off all existing arrears to domestic suppliers, clearing all pension arrears and 
undertaking legislative reform with the recent pension act. 
 
In addition to attempting to cement the moderate gains achieved in macroeconomic stability, the 
government is also pursuing reforms to improve service delivery by the public sector. Since the early 
1990s the government has been slowly but steadily implementing public service reforms through the 
Public Service Reform Program (PSRP).  Some progress has been made over the years in public service 
downsizing, initial pay reforms for senior public service employees, some aspects of public sector 
restructuring such as the privatization and commercialization of parastatals, and in undertaking initial 
reforms in public financial management, such as the introduction of a payroll management and 
establishment control system, a financial management system, and the introduction of a Medium Term 
Expenditure Framework (MTEF).  However, the government continues to struggle with the management 
of, and accountability for, public resources.  Deficiencies persist in most areas of the public financial 
management cycle, from Parliamentary oversight and budget preparation to internal controls and 
external auditing.  Public institutions are still very weak, with limited implementation capacity resulting 
in poor service delivery.  In an effort to boost the PSRP process, the government presented the second 
phase of the reforms to its cooperating partners in September 2003.  The PSRP now has three distinct 
components, namely, Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability (PEMFA); Public 
Service Management (PSM) and Decentralization. 
The PRSC program will support the broad reform agenda in the areas of pension reform, the clearing of 
domestic arrears, compensation reform, payroll management and budget execution.  Progress in these 
areas will enable the country to achieve some of the broad macroeconomic objectives of fiscal 
sustainability and the reduction of domestic debt to sustainable levels, as well as promoting financial and 
budgetary accountability.  
 
Macroeconomic Management  
Public Service Pension Fund.  The FNDP (as well as the two previous DPLs, EMGC I and II.) recognize 
that the challenges faced by the two public sector pension funds, i.e. PSPF and the Local Annuities 
Superannuation Fund (LASF), pose a risk to macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability.  The 
PSPF is an occupational pension scheme, which has been rendered insolvent due to the government 
owing considerable amounts in contribution arrears. 
 
The government initiated a series of reforms to address the situation, which also included a plan to 
liquidate arrears owed to the PSPF.  In order to correct the imbalance between contribution and benefit 
accrual rates, Article 124 of the Constitution, which specifically protects accrued benefits, will need to 
be revised.  The necessary revisions are included in the proposed amendments to the Constitution 
prepared by the Constitutional Review Commission (CRC).  Once adopted, a revision of benefits can be 
implemented and PSPF and LASF can be put on a sound financial footing.  To ensure that PSPF can 
Page  4
continue to pay benefits until the amendments have been adopted, MoFNP has agreed to: (i) to reduce 
annually during the 2008-10 period its contribution arrears to PSPF; and (ii) not to accumulate any 
significant new pension arrears. In the meantime, PSPF and LASF have taken measures to reduce their 
administrative costs, and the authorities have agreed to a phased pay down of their contribution arrears 
such that benefits can continue to be paid out.  While amendments to the constitution are pending, (they 
are expected to be passed in 2010), a business plan evaluating the options for restoring solvency was 
prepared by PSPF in 2008 and is expected to be publicly discussed by the end of 2009.   
 
Public Service Reform  
Development of a Public Service Pay Policy.  Efforts have been made to enhance salaries and the 
conditions of service for public service workers.  These efforts, however, have been ad hoc in nature and 
approach and were undertaken largely in response to sectoral pressures. They have lacked a systematic 
approach and policy context and have lagged behind inflationary trends. The result is a pay regime 
disconnected from the market, a demoralized workforce, and poor quality service delivery.  Hence there 
is immediate need for a comprehensive pay policy as a means of attracting and retaining quality staff 
and motivating improved work performance. As part of the PSRP, a Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy 
(MTPRS) was developed, however this has not been fully implemented. Under PSM, the government 
will continue implementing the MTPRS and will develop a comprehensive pay policy that will link to 
performance.  The government anticipates the implementation of the comprehensive pay policy to 
proceed in phases, as complete implementation is unlikely to be achieved in a single effort. 
 
Decentralization of the Payroll Management and Establishment Control. The government has developed 
and implemented the payroll management and establishment control system (PMEC) to improve and 
rationalize the administration of payroll and establishment. PMEC, introduced in 2004, was based on: (i) 
an establishment register where the organizational structure for included ministries and institutions was 
revised and approved; (ii) a data cleaning process where illegal employees in the included payrolls were 
identified and removed; (iii) a set of policies and procedures for end users; and (iv) training of end users 
and super users. 
 
All payrolls managed by the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet Office have been converted from the 
legacy system to the PMEC system, and for the included staff the PMEC system generates monthly pay 
slips. Under the PSM improvements to the PMEC system have been planned, including the 
decentralization of IT infrastructure from central agencies and to the provincial level administration in 
order to facilitate remote data capture. 
 
Public Finance Management 
As part of the PSRP, the PEMFA reform program targets improvements in treasury management, the 
public procurement processes, and budget execution. The government has undertaken efforts to reform 
budget preparation and execution in order to establish a more transparent and credible budgeting process 
and budget document. As part of these efforts, the government is expected to implement the budget with 
greater precision, reducing the variance between the budget documents and actual spending. Under the 
PFM cluster, the PAF also focuses on budget execution, accountability, and the clearing of arrears.  
 
Budget Execution - Percent Calculated Expenditure between 95% and 105% of Total Funding. Budget 
execution has continued to be a major weakness in the current budget process. The release of funds is 
usually unsystematic, unpredictable, and inadequate, making it difficult for ministries, departments, and 
institutions to execute their planned activities.  There is need for a structure that can link medium-term 
development objectives to the annual budget process.  The development and implementation of the 
MTEF was intended to provide a multi-year planning horizon that will implement policy changes that 
require a phased approach; however, the government has not used the MTEF as a multiyear planning 
Page  5
tool.  Weaknesses in public procurement systems have also contributed to weak budget execution as the 
sectors only begin the procurement process once MoFNP has released the funds.  
 
Domestic Arrears. As a result of a previously weak commitment to financial control and management 
systems, the government accumulated substantial arrears with its contractors. Under the PAF program 
for 2008-2010 and the MTEF for 2008-2010, the government has committed itself to clearing all old 
arrears by the end of the period and has earmarked substantial amounts to cover these commitments.  
 
Focusing on these areas of reform in the PRSC program will support the govern
ment’s FNDP objective 
of sustaining and securing fiscal stability and deepening structural reforms to achieve economic growth. 
The program will also support the government’s accountability and governance agenda.     
 
(b) Supporting Broad-Based Growth by Improving Efficiency in the Agricultural and Energy Sectors 
 
The government has been implementing reforms aimed at liberalizing agricultural markets and 
encouraging the private sector to take the lead in agricultural development since the early 1990s.  
However, to date, the sector still suffers from unpredictable policies and uneven implementation, as well 
as legislative measures that do not facilitate effective reform.  The national vision for agriculture, as 
articulated in the FNDP, is an efficient, competitive and sustainable sector that assures food security and 
increased income. In order to attain this vision the FNDP articulates reform efforts to be undertaken in 
several areas, among them irrigation, infrastructure and land development, and agricultural marketing.   
 
In addition to the agriculture sector, the role of the energy sector in providing increased access to 
electricity is viewed in the FNDP as critical to the growth of social and economic sectors and to poverty 
reduction.  In the early 1980s Zambia enjoyed 100 percent surplus power capacity due to low economic 
activity and minimal domestic consumption.  Today Zambia is faced with an electricity deficit, which 
poses a serious threat to the sustainability of the economic gains made in recent years, as no major 
investments in new generation capacity have taken place since the 1970s. The national electrification 
rate remains at approximately 20 percent countrywide, and only two to three percent in rural areas.  
 
The PRSC program aims to support government structural reforms that will enable private sector driven 
pro-poor and broad-based growth.  In this regard, the credit will support government reforms in 
agricultural marketing that will enable increased private sector participation in the agricultural economy 
and reforms in the energy sector focusing on increasing efficiency and expanding access.  Improved 
efficiency in the energy sector will provide the appropriate framework for much-needed investment in 
the sector, which will be crucial to Zambia’s economic growth.  
 
Agriculture.  The PAF program supports the FNDP goals by focusing on budget execution in the sector, 
irrigation development, and agricultural marketing.  Currently, the roles of various players in sector are 
not well defined, which prevents the efficient participation of the private sector. This distorts the market 
and discourages long-term planning and investment in the area. To address these distortions, an 
amendment to the Agricultural Marketing Act (AMA) has been proposed. Ratification of the AMA will 
clarify the roles of various players in the sector, ensure regulatory consistency and reduce distortions in 
agricultural spending. This will provide incentives to the private sector and make the performance of 
agricultural markets more predictable. If implemented effectively, these reforms will result in improved 
budget performance and accelerated growth in the sector.  
 
Energy.  A reliable, secure, and sustainable supply of electricity will be vital for sustained economic 
growth in the country. Facilitating investments to secure this supply and achieve the mid-term 
electrification target of 35 percent of households by 2010 will require substantial investment. The Rural 
Page  6
Electrification Master Plan alone estimates that rural electrification alone will require US$1 billion, or 
US$50 million per year from 2008 to 2030. A commercially-oriented and sustainable framework will be 
needed to achieve these targets. The tariff framework for the electricity sector, which does not recover 
the cost of supply and adversely affects the financial viability of the sector, limits current investments in 
network maintenance, new generation, and access expansion. 
 
In response, the government has developed a strategy to address short-, medium- and long-term issues in 
the electricity sector. This strategy calls for significant investment and commits to a framework for 
moving tariffs toward cost recovery levels and the promotion of broader participation within the sector. 
The Energy Regulation Board (ERB) has agreed with ZESCO, the vertically integrated, state-owned 
electricity utility company responsible for the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of 
electricity, on a series of performance benchmarks. Adopted in 2007, these provide a multiyear incentive 
tariff framework based on the use of self-enforcing incentives that are embedded in the electricity tariff 
decision-making framework and are aimed at improving both profitability and service delivery. 
 
In further recognition of the importance of an efficient energy sector to support private sector 
development and wealth creation, the government in early 2009 included some of the actions to be 
undertaken by ZESCO under the electricity strategy in the PRBS PAF.  The energy indicators in the 
PAF that the PRSC will support the increase in the total number of new domestic customers served by 
ZESCO as well as the increase in the number of metered customers.  Actions in these areas will improve 
the efficiency of the sector and increase access to electricity, both important goals of the FNDP.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
An effort was made to assess the and address the likelihood of significant effects of policies supported 
by this operation on the environment, natural resources, of forests including assessment of the 
gover
nment’s systems for reducing adverse effects and enhancing positive effects.  There is one area of 
the proposed PRSC that require further attention with respect to environmental issues.  This is the 
approval an implementation of an Agricultural Marketing Act. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact point 
 Task 
Manager 
 Julio 
Revilla 
 
Pyramid Plaza, Plot #746B 
 Church 
Road 
 
P.O. Box 35410 
 Lusaka, 
Zambia 
 
Tel.: (260) 211 252 811  Ext 3246 
 
Fax: (260) 211-254-283 
 
