                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                  Report No: 32359-CHA




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-30930 SCL-43410 TF-27129)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR THE

                                      TARIM BASIN II PROJECT




                                              June 27, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 2005)

                        Currency Unit = Yuan
                                Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                              US$ 1.00 = Y 8.3

                              FISCAL YEAR


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AusAID    The Australian Agency for International Development
BCM       Billion cubic meters
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CC        Coordination Committee
cum       Cubic meter
CUM/MU    Cubic meters per mu
DEP       Domestic Expert Panel
DFID      Department for International Development
EC        Executive Committee
EO        Executive Office
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
ET        Evapo-transpiration
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GIS       Global Information System
GOC       Government of China
Ha        Hectare (1 ha = 2.48 acres)
HHWS      Household Water Supply System
IC        Irrigation Committee
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDC       Irrigation District Committee
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
IWRM      Integrated Water Resources Management
LWMP      Land and Water Management Plan
LYLI      Low Yield Land Improvement
MCM       Million cubic meters
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
M&I       Municipal and Industrial
MIS       Management Information System
MTR       Mid-term Review
Mu        Chinese unit of area (15Mu = 1 ha)
NBET      Non-beneficial Evapo-transpiration
NPV       Net Present Value
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPMO      Prefecture Project Management Office

PAD           Project Appraisal Document
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
QC            Quality Control
RAR           Resettlement Assessment Report
RCR           Resettlement Completion Report
R&D           Research and Development
RPMO          Regional Project Management Office
SC            Standing Committee
SIDD          Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District
TA            Technical Assistance
TBMB          Tarim Basin Management Bureau
TBWRC         Tarim Basin Water Resources Commission
WASB          Water and Salt Balance
WRM           Water Resources Management
WSC           Water Supply Corporation
WTO           World Trade Organization
WUA           Water User Association
XUAR          Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region




                         Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                       Country Director      David R. Dollar, EACCF
                         Sector Director     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Geoffrey Spencer/Liping Jiang, EASRD

                                                CHINA
                                        CN - TARIM BASIN II


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
    6. Sustainability                                                                14
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
    9. Partner Comments                                                              17
    10. Additional Information                                                       17
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
    Annex 8. TBWRC Organization, Responsibility and Consultation Arrangement         32
    Annex 9. Implementation Management of Safeguard Issues                           34
    Annex 10. Borrower's Comments in Detail                                          37
    Annex 11. Research Topics by Project Areas                                       39
    Annex 12. Pictorial Overview of the Tarim Basin and Project Achievements         43
Map IBRD 29489

Project ID: P046563                                                  Project Name: TARIM BASIN II PROJECT
Team Leader: Geoffrey Spencer                                        TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TARIM BASIN II PROJECT                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-30930; SCL-43410;
                                                                                                     TF-27129
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (78%); Agricultural extension and research
                            (20%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Land administration and
                            management (P); Other rural development (S); Environmental
                            policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/19/1997                                     Effective: 10/31/1998                12/18/1998
     Appraisal: 02/09/1998                                         MTR:                             11/30/2001
      Approval: 06/09/1998                                      Closing: 12/05/0331                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
                      Other Partners:      AusAID through Bank executed Technical Assistance Grant

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michele Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Geoff Spencer and Jiang Liping                 Douglas C. Olson
ICR Primary Author:             Geoff Spencer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 The main project development objectives (PDOs) were: (i) to increase the incomes of poor farmers
through irrigated agriculture development; (ii) to establish mechanisms for the sustainable development,
management and use of the water resources and land in the Tarim Basin; and (iii) to partially restore and
preserve the "green corridor" in the lower reaches of the Tarim River.

3.1.2. The project was demanding, complex and risky because of the depth of institutional reform required
for setting up an intra-provincial river basin management arrangement, including the establishment of a
water quota system, with an allocation of a water to the environment. Both had no precedent in China. It
was further complicated because by design, it needed a well coordinated and integral approach across a
number of government departments and political and administrative boundaries. To be successful it needed
strong political support to create the establishing policy and institutional frameworks. Prior to the project,
uncontrolled and increasing upstream water diversions for irrigation, municipal and industrial use were
causing a steady deterioration of the downstream environment. The project was designed to bring about
sustainable water resources management in the Tarim River Basin and to a create conditions of controlled
development, allocation and use of water resources in the upper basin in order to increase water availability
and quality for the lower river basin environment.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original project objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1 The project comprised eight components: (1) Water Conservancy; (2) Land Reclamation; (3) Low
Yield Land Improvement (LYLI); (4) Agricultural Support Services; (5) Environmental Protection and
Monitoring; (6) Institutional Development; (7) Tarim Basin Water Resources Commission (TBWRC); and
(8) Regional Management.

3.3.2 The components were well designed as an integrated set of actions and activities that supported the
full achievement of the PDOs. The components were effectively integrated using an implementation
strategy directed at sustainable water resources development, allocation and management and employed
both a "top-down" and a "bottom-up" approach. The project management arrangements adopted at
Regional, Prefecture and County levels ensured effective management and coordination.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components remained largely unchanged throughout the implementation period. However,
activities under component 2 -Land Reclamation- involving the expansion of the irrigated area were
stopped at the time of the mid-term review in order to be consistent with a change in Regional government
policy supported by the Bank. The funds intended for this component were reallocated to the Low Yield
Land Improvement Component and to Water Conservancy activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

While the project was not subject to a review by the Quality Assurance Group, the quality at entry is rated
as having been highly satisfactory. The PDOs were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance


                                                     - 2 -

Strategy for China, which called for: (i) sustainable agricultural development and diversified agricultural
production in poor and environmentally vulnerable areas; (ii) promotion of continued sustainable
development and upgrading of marginal lands; and (iii) the incorporation of major water storage, transfer,
irrigation, drainage and flood control infrastructure. It was also in step with the government of China's
(GOC) long-term polices and strategies supporting increased food production by improving irrigated
agriculture, increasing incomes and rural employment opportunities and furthering western regional
development. The project design incorporated lessons learnt from the 13 previous Bank-funded water and
irrigation projects in China and from the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) evaluation reviews of
major water resources projects Bank-wide. The design also incorporated fully the Bank's safeguard policies
which included Environmental Assessment, Integrated Pest Management, Indigenous People, Dam Safety,
and Involuntary Resettlement. An exception to the International Waters safeguard (O.P7.50) was sought
and granted in August 1997.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 The outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory.

4.1.2     The project effectively brought about: (i) institutional reforms at the river basin management level;
(ii) restrictions on agricultural water use by the introduction of a water quota system; (iii) increased
productivity of water usage in irrigated agriculture; and (iv) the establishment of a water quota allocation
specifically for the downstream riverside environment which resulted in significant environmental water
releases. The physical outputs achieved under each component of the project are clear and measurable.
What is not so easily measurable, but which is a striking achievement in such a short time, is the complete
change of mentality and genuine understanding and commitment by stakeholder water-users and
government officials within the basin that water use must be controlled within allocated quotas and that
water must be allocated both for productive and environmental purposes.

4.1.3      The project was completed on schedule, with all the main physical targets met and with full
disbursement of the loan/credit and all civil works were completed to high quality standards. The first
objective (of increasing farmer incomes) was met by increasing agricultural productivity, improving and
modernizing cropping systems, reducing input costs and diversifying agriculture to higher-value products.
The second objective (of establishing mechanisms for sustainable allocation, use and management of the
land and water resources) was achieved through the full implementation of institutional reforms in the
entire basin. The achievements and outcomes under this component provide a "best practice" example of
truly participatory and inclusive river basin institutional management arrangements. The third objective (of
partially restoring the "green corridor" in the lower reaches of the river by providing water for the riverside
environment) far exceeded the expectations established at appraisal. This was achieved by effectively
reducing the quantity of water used in irrigation and allocating a water quota to the environment. The
successful achievement towards this objective resulted in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR)
obtaining funding for a new nationally-funded regional project that began in 2001 to further leverage the
project successes.

4.1.4      Over 200,000 farmer households in the project area have benefited directly from the project
through raised annual cropping outputs as well as diversification into higher-value crops, particularly
melons and other fruit crops. Compared to the estimates at appraisal, annual production exceeded these as
follows: wheat by 5132 tons; corn by 14827 tons, rice by 19571 tons; cotton by 24459 tons; and sugar
beet by 60844 tons. Compared to appraisal projections, the actual yields at project end for the widely



                                                       - 3 -

planted crops of wheat and corn were better by 41% (4400kg /ha compared to 6210kg/ha) and 25%
(1260kg/ha compared to 1580 kg/ha), respectively. Because of the LYLI component and the increase in
livestock production, a huge increase in alfalfa production occurred ­ up 56,302 tons/annum compared to
the baseline data.    Significant diversification into higher-value crops (orchard, melons, vegetables and
alfalfa) occurred on about 148,000 Ha. Measured against the baseline data, production increases were:
oil seed crops, up 3044 tons/annum; melons, up 38,248 tons/annum and fruit production (apples, grapes,
apricots, pears), up 8158 tons/annum.

4.1.5     As a result, farmers' average annual income per capita increased from Y1946 to Y2510 or 29%
across the five prefectures in the project area. The two poorest prefectures, Kizilsu and Hotan, benefited
the most from project activity with average annual incomes increasing by 48% and 40%, respectively. All
the counties in Hotan and most of the counties in Kizilsu are classified at a level below the national poverty
line. The project was able to target the poorest prefectures because of good baseline data, particularly the
data available for the nationally classified poverty areas. The project brought about not only a reduction in
the total volume of irrigation water used but also an increase in the value of agricultural production such
that on average the irrigation water productivity index increased by 43% from Y0.86/cum to Y1.23/cum.

4.1.6     During the project, the total volume of environmental water released from Daxihaizhi reservoir to
the lower river "green corridor" was 1.7 Billion Cubic Meters (BCM). At completion, the project showed
itself to be one of the most successful examples of sustainable river basin management in China, if not the
world. The impact of the project was to change the mind set and the approach to integrated water
resources management (IWRM) within the basin from a situation of unsustainable water use, no integrated
or controlled management, and severe environmental degradation. The project clearly demonstrated that
an economically-viable and environmentally-sustainable integrated water resource management approach
can be achieved in a poor area of a developing country.

4.1.7      The project benefited from the favorable national political environment, the renewed national
focus on rural development and sustainable water resource management, and the entry of China into the
World Trade Organization (WTO). The project also introduced a number of new technological and
management practices that contributed markedly to the expansion of agricultural production systems,
raised productivity levels and increased water savings. The success of a number of innovations introduced
under the project can be measured in part by the commitment by the XUAR government to now incorporate
and mainstream these into national and regional funded programs. Of particular note are the continuation
of the water and salt balance modeling for sound, knowledge-based planning and decision-making in the
context of the river basin master plan; the use of evapo-transpiration management concepts in future
planning, allocation and use of water; the use of geo-membrane in canal lining; the wide application of
Integrated Pest Management (IPM); the initial application of laser-guided land grading to support water
savings and increased agricultural productivity; the wider application of the community-driven, "bottom
up" Land and Water Management Planning process; and the wider formation and fostering of the
Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD)/Water User Associations (WUAs), and adoption of
irrigation water tariffs based on volumetric water use measurement.

4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1. Water Conservancy (US$116.8 m).
The achievement of the output of this component is rated as highly satisfactory. This was the biggest
investment component of the project and included the construction of the following: one main reservoir and
four major headwork structures; rehabilitation and modernization of 1009km trunk/main canals; 1092 km
main drains; 12 well-fields involving 572 new wells; one pumping station; and 88 km of electrical


                                                       - 4 -

transmission lines.

4.2.2    A total of 433 km of canals were lined using 0.5 mm thick welded sheets of geo-membrane
protected by concrete lining. The use of geo-membrane was the biggest single undertaking of its kind in the
world with 5.4 million m utilized, and ensured that the canals were made virtually seepage-proof. To put
                            2


this huge achievement into perspective, the total amount of geo-membrane installed under the project in six
years exceeded the total amount installed by the US Bureau of Reclamation for canal lining over the last 30
years. Seepage reductions were confirmed using standard canal seepage tests. (Under the previous Tarim
I project, although seepage was significantly reduced using 0.2 mm thick geo-membrane with overlapping
joints, there was still a significant amount of post-lining seepage also confirmed with seepage tests.) The
water saved, estimated that 600-800 Million Cubic Meters (MCM)/annum was as a first priority returned
to the river as environmental flows. Water in excess of environmental requirements was allocated to
consumptive use, including M&I and a controlled expansion of the area under irrigation. The construction
of well points and the conjunctive use of both surface and groundwater contributed to improvements in
water operational efficiencies and greater drought protection for certain project areas. The benefits derived
from conjunctive use of water were particularly evident in the Bosten Lake area. (See details in 4.2.6.2
below)

4.2.3    Land Reclamation (US$35.8 m).
The achievement of the output of this component is rated as satisfactory. This component involved the
reclamation of previously non-irrigated waste land within or adjoining existing irrigation "oases". A total
of 41, 462 ha was completed, involving the construction of (i) 1198 km of lateral canals of which 225 km
were lined; (ii) 1129 km of farm canals of which 27 km were lined; (iii) 7838 associated canal structures;
and (iv) 1360 farm access roads. The original objective at appraisal of 75,334 ha was not realized because
investment in the component was stopped at the time of the Mid-term Review (MTR) in accordance with a
change of government policy supported by the Bank, to limit irrigation expansion in favor of concentrating
the investment on the consolidation and improvement of land already irrigated, including water
conservation activities. A result of this readjustment was a greater volume of real water savings generated
from irrigation and returned to the river as environmental flows, ensuring the full achievement of the third
PDO.

4.2.4    Low Yield Land Improvement ­LYLI (US $64.0 m).
The implementation performance of this component is rated as highly satisfactory. About 123,373 ha
(105,334 ha at appraisal) of existing low yield irrigated land was improved through the completion or
rehabilitation of: (i) 1877 km of lateral canals, of which 510 km were lined; (ii) 2070 km of farm canals, of
which 64 km were lined; (iii) 13,008 associated canal structures; and (iv) 268 km of farm access roads. At
the MTR, this component was further expanded and enhanced by the inclusion of an amount of US$90/ha
specifically directed at improving soil fertility through a combination of engineering, biological and land
management/farming system measures. Engineering measures were directed at mitigating soil salinity and
high groundwater levels (drainage); biological measures were directed at improving soil organic matter
content (alfalfa for "green mature"); and changes to farming systems were directed at increasing the
long-term fertility of soil (crop rotation and intercropping). This was successfully completed on all
123,373 ha and resulted in increases in both soil fertility and structure (1998-2003) as follows: organic
matter content +20%, N +3.4%, P uptake +14.8%, reduction in pH -5%, and a reduction in total soil salt
content -11%.

4.2.5    Agriculture Support Services (US$ 21.1m).




                                                       - 5 -

4.2.5.1 This component was fully achieved and its output contributed significantly to increased farmer
incomes through productivity gains and diversification of irrigated agriculture and through the adoption of
IPM. It is therefore rated as highly satisfactory. Its inclusion allowed a concentration on irrigated
agricultural production and not just irrigation engineering; it was an integral part of the "bottom-up"
measures which successfully brought together farmers (especially those organized into WUAs) and the
water and agricultural support services providers, all focused on improving both agricultural and water use
productivity. The successful outcomes were delivered through: (i) the enhancement of the seed production
base (8350 ha); (ii) the construction and equipping of new seed processing plants down to township level
(26800 m2); (iii) construction of agricultural extension stations at district/county/township levels (46 No.);
(iv) the procurement of breeding bulls and ram/eves (15233 head); and (v) the construction of seven
technical training centers. In addition the component introduced advanced and scientific farming
technology practices, strengthened Research and Development and provided a total of 479,00 man days of
agricultural training for technical staff and 568,000 training days for farmers. The majority, 517,000
(91%) of the farmer training days was directed at women (151,000 days) and ethnic minorities (366,000
days). An indication of the effectiveness of this component can be seen as part of the 2003 M&E of the
project. For instance, a sample of project participating households across the whole project area recorded
that 89% considered the farmer training provided related directly to solving their problems and addressed
their practical needs. Further, the establishment and enhancement of the seed production base meant that
89% (1998 -64%) of farmers in the project area were covered by the program and had access to better seed
quality and availability. The full impact of this component can be seen in the annual crop production
increases (para 4.1.4), in farmer income increases (para 4.1.5). The following table that shows clearly the
diversification in irrigated agriculture that has occurred in the project area.

                  Changes to the Cropping Pattern in the Project Area
                                                                              Unit: thousand h




4.2.5.2   This component also managed the IPM activities with training and extension directed at cotton
cropping systems. The IPM activities were closely supported by the T.A. provided under the AusAID grant
and were based around three levels of training of both staff and farmers reinforced through field
demonstrations. The effectiveness of the IPM activities were measured against (i) the reduction in overall
(chemical, biological and other) uses - result a 22.8% reduction. (ii) the reduction in the percentage of
chemical pesticides used - result - 306871 kgs/annum reduction; (iii) the increase in biological pesticides
use - result +19.6% and (iv) the increase in the application of other methods -result +17.0% (See annex 9
for more details on the IPM activities.)

4.2.6    Environmental Protection and Monitoring (US$16.9m).



                                                      - 6 -

4.2.6.1 This component played a very important role in sustainable water resources development and use
within the basin and was completed highly satisfactorily. The main activity was the establishment of a
basin-wide water and salt balance (WASB) model, built up from a set of sub-models at prefecture level.
The component also financed the establishment of key water quality and quantity data points, the purpose
of which was to provide knowledge for data input into the WASB models, which allowed the effectiveness
of the model to be significantly improved over time. The early implementation of the models allowed
knowledge-based decisions to be made at the time of the MTR that enhanced and allowed better-targeted
Water Conservancy, LYLI and Agricultural Support Services activities and also contributed to significant
improvement in the integrated (surface and groundwater) operational decision-making. The XUAR and
prefecture governments are fully committed to the continuation and enhancement of the WASB models and
this will ensure that future decision-making, as part of the Tarim Basin Master plan, is well founded.

4.2.6.2. The component also included the financing of a detailed environmental monitoring system for
Bosten Lake and its environs. The data generated from these systems provided the knowledge base for the
preparation of a comprehensive master plan for the Bosten Lake, including its natural catchment area. The
high impact outcome was an integrated plan for the land and water resources (both surface and
groundwater) implemented during the project, resulting in improved lake water quality, the re-establishment
of historical levels of surface-water inflows and increased productivity of irrigated agriculture in the
catchment area. The implementation of a well-field in an important irrigated area upstream of the lake and
the conjunctive use of surface and groundwater resulted in a more secure water supply for irrigation and
higher agricultural yields as well as increased inflows of water and reduced inflows of salt to the lake itself.
Tube-wells now provide most of the water to the irrigated lands and low-salinity surface water that had
been used for irrigation now flows into the lake. The benefits are derived from a lowered water-table that
decreased water logging and salinization which previously had contributed to low yields and high
non-beneficial evapo-transporation. Eleven similar well-fields were implemented with similar beneficial
results in other parts of the project.

4.2.7    Institutional Development (US$17.5 m).
4.2.7.1 The component, which included SIDD/WUA development, applied Research and Development
(R&D), special studies and training and technical assistance, was fully completed and implemented in a
highly satisfactory manner. The main institutional development activities centered on the establishment of
pilot SIDDs and a pilot Land and Water Management Plan (LWMP), both central to the "bottom-up"
strategy for basin-wide institutional reforms. The SIDD model included the establishment of WUAs at the
lower level of irrigation system management by farmers and the establishment of Water Supply
Corporations (WSCs) for the larger water delivery systems. A fundamental tenet of the concept is that
farmers should take responsibility for operating and maintaining the tertiary irrigation systems within their
designated area of responsibility and the WUA leaders are elected by the farmers themselves. During
project implementation, 15 successful pilot or demonstration WUAs and one successful WSC with its
cluster of 19 WUAs was established. However, although the activities under the project were relatively
modest they were very successful. The experience gained was so rich that the XUAR government took a
decision to implement the SIDD/WUA concept throughout the Region. As a result, an additional 208
WUAs were established within the project area, a further 1,325 in the Tarim River Basin and 5,255
throughout the Region.

4.2.7.2 The program for the formation and fostering of WUAs significantly enhanced and complemented a
separate regional program for Household Water Supply System (HHWS) aimed at improving water
supply, water measurement and water charges at the household level. The establishment of WUAs meant
that the HHWS could be focused at the more practical level of the WUA instead of the problematic and
logistically difficult individual household. This allowed the fundamental change away from area-based


                                                      - 7 -

water charges to volumetric charges that resulted in: (i) a significant reduction in water use by farmers; (ii)
corresponding increases in water use productivity; (iii) the right incentives for farmers to invest in
land-leveling, on-farm water management practices, tree crops and improved inputs (such as better seed
and fertilizer); and (iv) improved transparency, reliability and equity of water distribution and of the water
charges process.

4.2.7.3 The 15 "mature" WUAs at the center of the project are operating smoothly and detailed M&E
shows clearly the benefits: (i) considerable water savings (gross water use was reduced by 16.8% from
1,149cum/mu to 956 cum/mu); (ii) through the introduction of volumetric charges, annual water fees paid
by farmers were reduced by 24.2% from Y36/mu to Y27.3/mu; (iii) an increase of 42.6% in water
productivity from Y0.82/m3 to Y1.27/m3; and (iv) increased annual production value/mu (from Y950 to
Y1,127). In addition, WUAs provided hard to quantify benefits such as improved dispute resolution
processes, transparency, reliability and equity of water distribution, and reduced labor inputs in managing
irrigation on-farm. These benefits particularly favored women because of their close involvement in
farming activities.

4.2.7.4 The upstream WSCs were more difficult to implement for a variety of reasons, including (i) a lack
of financial viability because water charges were set too low; (ii) a lack of management autonomy, and
complicated and fragmented personnel structures; and (iii) administrative management issues because the
water management stations that would become the WSCs are government organizations within the County
and Township Water Bureaus. It was decided during the MTR that it was not feasible to move forward
with WSCs, given these issues, and that emphasis should be given to concentrating and expanding the
WUA-related activities.

4.2.7.5 In Aksu Prefecture, however, a WSC with its 19 clustered WUAs was successfully established
because it brought together and provided a "community of common concern" with a mechanism to focus on
finding a solution to local problems of excessive water use; seasonal shortages of water;
low-value/low-productivity agriculture resulting from poor land management practices; salinization and
high groundwater; poor drainage; and a deteriorated downstream environment in the mid-Tarim River.
Assistance from the AusAID grant was used very effectively to assist the community to find solutions to its
complex set of problems. A LWMP, with a number of structural and nonstructural activities was
developed, including the consideration and evaluation of different options for saving water, increasing
farmer incomes and improving both the immediate irrigation area and downstream environments.

4.2.7.6 The LWMP adopted is an integrated set of actions that are the most cost-effective measures,
divided into ten action areas: (i) canal rehabilitation and lining; (ii) water management to alleviate spring
drought; (iii) whole-farm planning and land leveling; (iv) winter irrigation management; (v) water savings
for irrigation; (vi) change of cropping patterns; (vii) water-table management and drainage; (viii)
environmental protection; (ix) nonstructural measures to improve water management; and (x) further
scientific studies.

4.2.7.7 Because the LWMP process was only completed near the end of the project, only part of the plan
was implemented under the project. Awaiti County in Aksu Prefecture has officially adopted the plan and
is working to find sources of financing to implement it through existing government programs and
(perhaps) additional AusAID assistance.

4.2.7.8 One of the most significant conclusions from the LWMP process was that probably the most
cost-effective measure for saving water and increasing crop yields is laser-guided land-leveling. The
project supported the purchase of one large set of laser-guided land leveling equipment to demonstrate the


                                                       - 8 -

technology. The analysis of the pilot conducted in Fengshou Irrigation Area in Awaiti County clearly
shows the many and significant benefits of laser-guided land-leveling. These include: significantly improved
accuracy and reliability and much lower unit costs of laser leveling compared to leveling by the traditional
bulldozer (57% cost reduction); decreased water use (average of 20%) which also means cost-savings to
farmers were volumetric charges are in place; increased productivity yields (cotton +16.8% and wheat
+34%) and hence farm income ; increased efficiency of fertilizer use; increased land area utilization
because of the elimination of farm-level canals and drains; significant time and labor savings with the
irrigation period reduced from 5 to 4 days and the labor required for each irrigation reduced from 28
person-days to just two. Generally, this labor reduction benefits women the most.

4.2.8    Tarim Basin Water Resources Commission Support (US$12.7 m).
This key component was implemented through two sub-components, both with highly satisfactory
outcomes.

4.2.8.1 The Tarim Basin Water Resources Commission (US$3.5 million) This sub-component was
central to the overall "top-down" institutional reforms achieved under the project, particularly relating to
the second PDO. The objective was to enhance and strengthen the capacity of the fledgling TBWRC
(established under the Tarim Basin I project) into a vital institution that could effectively and efficiently
carry out its river basin management responsibilities for the planning, policy setting and overall
management of the water and related natural resources of the Basin.

4.2.8.2 In January 1992, the XUAR government established the Tarim Basin Management Committee and
the Tarim Basin Management Bureau (TBMB) under the Tarim Basin I Project. Although these
institutions began to carry out certain functions of water resources management, there was a clear need
identified to further strengthen the capacity under this project. During preparation of Tarim II, the XUAR
People's Congress passed the Regulations for Tarim Basin Water Resources Management which
established the TBWRC. During implementation, major efforts (supported by the AusAID grant
assistance) were made to strengthen the TBWRC through the establishment of a Standing Committee (SC),
an Executive Committee (EC), an Executive Office (EO), the TBMB, a Coordination Committee (CC) and
two Irrigation Committees (ICs). Annex 8 provides a detailed organization chart. The SC and EC of the
TBWRC are headed by the XUAR Vice Governor responsible for Agriculture and Water Resources. The
EO is headed by the Director of the Regional Water Bureau. The TBMB, which is administratively
accountable to the Regional Water Resources Bureau, is headed by its Deputy Director. These institutional
arrangements developed, tested and made workable under the project and were made permanent when, in
March 2005, the revised Tarim Basin Management Regulations were passed by XUAR People's Congress.

4.2.8.3 The main purpose of the TBWRC is to manage in a sustainable manner the water resources within
the basin and to ensure the rational and equitable development, use and allocation of water resources,
including water for the environment. Of particular importance is ensuring the delivery of water each year
to the "Green Corridor" (See map). During project implementation, starting in 2000, the SC met at least
once each year to establish water quotas for each sub-basin and for the Green Corridor and to make other
principal decisions. These meetings are mandated in the current Regulations. For 2000 and 2001, the
quotas were not completely met because of technical and administrative difficulties, but beginning in 2002
the quotas have been fully met each year and the procedures and mechanisms are in place to ensure that
they will continue to be met each year in the future. Starting in 2000, six separate water deliveries have
been made to the lower river "Green Corridor" totaling 1.7 BCM. The terminal lake systems at Taitema,
previously a dust bowl with no water flowing to the system for 30 years, reached a maximum area of 200
km2. The increased river flows and the reinstatement of the lake system have resulted in the water table
rising between 3.2 m and 12.6 m in the lower river reach. The mineral content of the ground-water has


                                                     - 9 -

improved dramatically, from 4-5 g/l to 2-3 g/l. The trees, shrubs and grasslands have been revitalized on
both sides of the river providing food, shelter and water for wildlife and people. The impact is that the
lower river has seen a return of 25 species of native birds, amphibians, reptiles and 11 species of fish.
Other wildlife, such as red deer, have also returned. An analysis of samples of tree rings taken along the
lower river and at various distances from the main course show clearly the impact of the environmental
flows on the revitalized growth of trees. From the year 2000 onwards, when environmental releases
commenced, the native trees showed a dramatic increase in growth.

4.2.8.4 The sub-component also financed the construction of 29 water quality and quantity measurement
stations, including monitoring equipment, a research monitoring and dispatch center, field office
establishment in each prefecture, TA, training and study tours, modeling, Geographical Information System
(GIS), remote sensing and river morphology activities.

4.2.8.5 Tarim River Works (US$ 9.2 m) The sub-component was completed in a highly satisfactory
manner also. The sub-component financed activities on the middle reaches of the river, including 325 km
of river training works and flood control levees. Also included were 27 ecological and water control
structures in the levee system that allowed the rationalization of the number and location of river diversion
points. At the MTR, and based on detailed studies, a decision was taken by the XUAR government and
supported by the Bank, not to fund the construction of the Louhuluke reservoir for economic and technical
reasons. Funds were reallocated within the sub-component to carry out additional river levee construction.



4.2.9    Regional Management (US$3.0 m).

4.2.9.1 This component was, implemented satisfactorily. It supported the development, testing and
installation of a complete Management Information System (MIS) for the project. In the early stages,
development was considerably delayed because, as designed, the MIS was too complex and the initial
objective of designing a system for real time management of project data was unrealistic. In addition, the
development of an expensive and dedicated communications system (fiber optical cable) was problematic.
At the MTR, the original approach was assessed as being too ambitious and a modified and simplified
approach that was more effective and less expensive was adopted. This modified approach included using
the internet as the communications medium in place of the dedicated system. The MIS was completed and
fully functional by the end of 2003 and fulfilled its intended purpose.

4.2.9.2 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) The component also included the project M&E. The
responsibility for this function was assigned to the Planning Divisions of each level of PMOs. The annual
monitoring and evaluation of the key performance indicators was carried out by an independent third party,
the Xinjiang Agricultural University School of Economics and Management. This arrangement produced
high quality annual reports and the same group produced the final M&E assessment for the borrower's
completion report.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall project has been recalculated at completion, based on
the major benefits generated from the Land Reclamation component, which increased irrigated agricultural
production on an area of 41,458 ha and from the LYLI component covering 123,373 ha resulting in
increased productivity of major crops (cotton, wheat, etc.) and from diversification to higher-value crops.
The recalculated ERR is 18.6% compared to 14.3% estimated at appraisal. The Net Present Value (NPV)
achieved was Y675.2 million at completion compared to the appraisal estimate of Y410.85 million. The


                                                      - 10 -

major difference between the economic analyses carried out at appraisal and presented in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) and that done at completion is that the appraisal under-estimated the scale of
diversification into higher-value agricultural production and also the assessment of increases in major crop
productivity. These higher benefits were offset to a degree by lower economic costs at ICR compared to
appraisal because of China's entry into the WTO.




4.4 Financial rate of return:

In spite of a significant downturn in cotton, wheat and other prices that had a major impact on the project
in the first and second years, with a corresponding reduction in house-hold incomes, the Financial Rate of
Return (FRR) for the overall project at completion was 15.6%. The PAD assessment (16.9%) was made
based on market prices prior to China entering the WTO and included allowances for the distortions in the
market at the time. At ICR, with China in the WTO, the prices used reflected more accurately undistorted
international market prices and generally, the financial prices at this time were lower than those at
appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    Because of the depth and complexity of institutional development and reform achieved under the
project, the impact is assessed as very high. The outcomes achieved provide an example of best practice of
an institutional model for IWRM for an intra-provincial river basin and sets a national precedent in China.
Furthermore, the principles developed and employed, particularly as they relate to the legal and institutional
framework issues and the strategic approach adopted for the institutional development and capacity
building, can also provide valuable guidance for those setting up or enhancing river basin institutional and
management arrangements in any river basin world-wide.

4.5.2    Integrated water resources planning, allocation and management have been fully achieved through
an integrated "top-down" and "bottom-up" implementation strategy. This outstanding achievement clearly
demonstrates that with such a strategic approach it is possible to develop sustainable IWRM. The
"top-down" aspects included: (i) establishing policies, laws, organizations, and regulations for managing
water; (ii) defining the availability of water and determining broad water allocations within river basins and
aquifers for different sectors and political administrative entities; (iii) setting water quality standards; and
(iv) establishing an effective forum for cross-sectoral cooperation and coordination.

The integrated "bottom-up" approach centered on the participation and empowerment of water users and
included: (i) educating and mobilizing water users, as well as incorporating their views into the planning
and management processes; (ii) involving more participation at the local government level, establishing
more ownership, accountability and contractual relationships; (iii) providing incentives and know-how to
farmers for improving water-use efficiency and water conservation in conjunction with the water users and
enhancing relevant agricultural support services; and (iv) defining rights and obligations in terms of water
rights and permissible discharges and the system for coordinating, regulating and controlling stakeholder
actions.

4.5.3    Sustainability of the institutional reforms is considered to be highly likely because the
enhancement, empowerment and transformation of the TBWRC into a consultative and participatory river
basin management organization involves all key stakeholder groups in decision making. At the core of the
TBWRC's ability to monitor and control water extraction and ensure environmental flows are the strong



                                                      - 11 -

policy and legal frameworks developed as part of the project. These measures include the Regional Water
Policy Statement and amended water law derived from the revised National Water Law and the adoption of
the new Tarim Basin regulations. The allocation and management of the water resources of the basin is
effectively done through the establishment and monitoring of an equitable and transparent annual water
quota system. This system is strongly enforced through an annual process of sanction and reward and by
daily control, monitoring and enforcement at key measuring structures under the management control of the
TBMB.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two force majeure events had an impact on project implementation: the national emergency in 2003
caused by outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak; and an earthquake in
Kashigar in 2002. The impact of both was to curtail project supervision and the provision of technical
assistance and to slow down project implementation. Despite these events, project staff overcame the
delays caused and implementation was completed on time. In the first half of the project implementation
period, international commodity prices, especially for wheat and cotton were depressed, threatening the
financial viability of farmers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1 One of the key success factors was the regional government's strong and consistent commitment and
support to the project at all levels (Regional, Prefecture, County and Township). Of particular note is the
continuous and consistent level of political leadership and the establishment of the enabling environment
through changes to regional water law and water policy. Xinjiang was the first region (province) to revise
its water law consistent with the revised National Water Law and to issue supporting policy statements
(2003). The Regional government also revised and passed the specific new Regulations that gives the
TBWRC its legal standing and is a key to the sustainability of the institutional development achieved under
the project. The high level of government commitment throughout implementation was also evident in the
selection of top quality, highly competent, responsible and accountable staff at all project management
levels. A key success factor was also the government's selection of the lead agency for the project, which
was able to provided very effective horizontal and vertical coordination across departments and government
and administrative boundaries. Timely project implementation was made possible in large part because
sufficient counterpart funds were provided at all levels.

5.2.2    When the project implementation performance was rated unsatisfactory in 2000, the government
took swift and decisive action to remedy the situation and within six months the project implementation
performance was rated satisfactory.

5.2.3    The government took quick action in response to depressed staple commodity prices that affected
farm incomes in the early part of the project by encouraging and promoting the diversification of
agriculture into higher-value commodities. This strategic action helped to increase household incomes,
particularly for the poorest households, and to improve the economic impact of the project.

5.2.3 Moving to a volumetric irrigation water tariff by incorporating the HHWS with the WUAs further
improved irrigation water-use efficiency. Sustainability of arrangements in this regard introduced under the
project have been enhanced by the establishment of WUA leading groups at the center and at each
prefecture in the Tarim Basin and throughout Xinjiang.



                                                     - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    Project management. The project management arrangements were highly effective and efficient
and contributed tremendously to the successful project outcomes. The transparency and accountability of
the project management systems adopted by the Project Management Offices (PMOs) at different levels
instilled and enforced discipline and good management practices in the use of project funds. The rigorous
project M&E was effective because of the establishment of excellent baseline data covering all components.
The PMOs at all levels more than adequately resourced the M&E activity throughout the project and this
resulted in the ability to complete an outstanding process of the measurement of achievements and
evaluation of the project impacts. In particular, international technical assistance and study tours were
used very effectively and with high impact by the PMOs to acquire modern, state-of-the-art knowledge and
skills, and technical and management tools that not only added to project implementation efficiency but also
built the institutional capacity and developed individual staff skills. The outcomes are seen in the many
project initiatives that have been mainstreamed in regional water projects and programs. Some of these
significant TA interventions include ET management including the use of remote sensing,
community-driven LWMP processes, WUA development, WASB modeling, the application of IPM, river
basin planning and management, environmental assessment, the use of geo-membrane as a part of canal
lining, and laser-guided land grading techniques for irrigation land improvement.

5.3.2    Procurement and Disbursement. Early problems with the lack of knowledge and understanding of
Bank procurement and disbursement procedures at all PMO levels caused delays, particularly with respect
to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) processes. These initial problems were solved by providing
additional training on Bank procurement and disbursement methods and guidelines.

5.3.3    Quality control. The project introduced and supported, through training and equipment
procurement, a complete system of quality control (QC) and checking at every level. An individual
"responsibility and accountability" system was developed that assigned QC at construction sites to
individuals and made them accountable. The effectiveness of these systems was evident in the generally
very high standard of works constructed and in the award to Prefectures and Counties of numerous
Regional prizes for works quality. In addition, a truly independent, multi-skilled Domestic Expert Panel
(DEP) was established as a government initiative that added considerable value to project implementation
quality and problem-solving through its thorough, twice-yearly inspections and reports on project activities.

5.3.4    Compliance with Loan and Credit Agreements. The Borrower and the Project executing agencies
and the PMOs all complied with the legal agreements with one exception. A requirement of the DCA was
that where civil works involved involuntary resettlement, the PPMO was to prepare an RAP acceptable to
the Bank before construction activity commenced. The Aksu PPMO began construction of the Laodahe
main canal in 1998 without an approved RAP. A thematic Bank supervision mission was sent to the site in
2000 and requested that a RAP be prepared immediately, even though most of the PAPs had been
physically resettled. The RAP was subsequently approved by the Bank and implemented very well by the
PPMO. The impact on the livelihoods and incomes of the PAPs was assessed in December 2001 and again
by an independent assessment in October 2004 and was rated as successful. (Details at annex 9)


5.4 Costs and financing:

The final cost of the project was US$287.8million, about 5.6% above the appraisal estimate of US $272.6
million. Of the total project cost, the IBRD and IDA loan/credit amount was US $150 million. A total of
US $2.67 million was cancelled during the course of the project, making the total loan/credit amount



                                                     - 13 -

available of $147.33 million. The total amount disbursed was US $146.7 million, or 99.6% of the loan and
credit. The government provided counterpart funds and farmers' contributions totaling US $141.1 million.
Detailed project costs and financing information are presented in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated as being highly likely for the following reasons:

(i) The institutional arrangements established under the project for river basin management include
effective consultative mechanisms that allow the involvement of all stakeholders in decision-making in an
equitable and transparent way. The effectiveness of these mechanisms can be measured by the complete
change of mind set of the stakeholder groups and the understanding of their respective roles and
responsibilities. There is now a real sense of community pride in "their river basin" and a clear
understanding of the importance of managing water as the single most precious natural resource in a desert
environment.

(ii) New institutional arrangements, strongly supported by government through revised regional water law,
policy and the regulatory environment.

(iii) A commitment by the XUAR government to the expansion of the formation and fostering of WUA,
combined with HHWS and the creation of high-profile WUA Leading Groups at the Regional center and in
each Prefecture. A project funded by United Kingdom's Department of International Development (DFID)
will build on the WUA successes under the project.

(iv) Farmer-managed WUAs are sustainable: (a) because the farmers are highly supportive and enthusiastic
and have embraced the WUA concept, and (b) because of the considerable benefits of membership,
including transparency, equity and reduced costs for members.

(v) The development and capacity building of staff and the enhancement of public services under the
project will continue to extend their impact in many development activities in Xinjiang and will be of
growing value for other governments in China. Some of the project's proven concepts and technical,
environmental and social activities have already been incorporated into other regional and nationally-funded
projects and programs in Xinjiang.

(vi) Financially-viable farmers in the project area, who are beginning to exploit their competitive edge
regionally and nationally and to position themselves as part of the Chinese entry into the WTO. This
aspect has been assisted by the uptake of IPM activities leading to the sustainable cropping of cotton in
particular.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.1.2 With full completion of the project as scheduled, and particularly the institutional development
arrangements at the level of the TBWRC and the WUAs, the transition arrangements to regular operations
have been completed and this is reflected in strong likelihood of project sustainability. The passing of the
revised Tarim Basin regulations by the Regional People's Congress in March 2005 was the last step in the
transition.




                                                     - 14 -

``

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. The project design reflected both the Bank's Water
Resources Management (WRM) strategies and those of the XUAR government. However, while the
objectives for the long-term management of Tarim River Basin articulated by the regional government at
the beginning of project preparation were sound, the proposed approach was too traditional and
unworkable. The Bank brought to bear its world-wide expertise during preparation and the project, as
designed, reflected the same objectives but incorporated an innovative and non- traditional approach to
solving the complex water and environmental problems. The Bank's input in terms of staff and skills mix
was superior. Between identification and appraisal, five missions were mobilized consisting of
multi-disciplinary teams of experts in the fields of Irrigation Economics, Water Resources Management,
Drainage Engineering, Anthropology, Environment, Institutional and Financial Management, River Basin
Management, Water Administration/SIDD/Farmer Organization and Irrigation Engineering.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision was proactive and thirteen supervision mission were carried out, using the right mix of
expertise depending on the implementation issues at the particular time. Supervision and implementation
effectiveness were further enhanced by the use of a very effective technical assistance package financed
under an AusAID grant. Where possible, the mobilization of experts under this TA coincided with
supervision missions. Timely, detailed aide memoires allowed early effective action to be taken and this
added considerable value to project supervision effectiveness. The supervision strategy employed an
efficient combination of the TTL/Co-TTL (based in Washington and Beijing, respectively) with clear roles
and responsibilities and the ability to interact with and be responsive to the daily needs with the client.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The total cost of
processing the project and carrying out supervision was $1,191,913 equal to 0.8% of the loan/credit and
0.4% of total project costs.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1 The borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. The borrower was
well organized and committed adequate resources to the preparation effort. This resulted in the innovative
and complex project being prepared, appraised and negotiated in just 17 months. The project preparation
work adopted a fully participatory approach focused at the river basin-level and covered major technical,
institutional, economic, procurement, technical (dam safety), environmental and social safeguards, financial
and project management aspects. The views of many key stakeholders at the regional, prefecture, county
and township levels were all reflected in the final project design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                      - 15 -

7.5.1 The government's implementation performance is rated as highly satisfactory for the reasons set out
in section 5.2 above.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementation agency is rated highly satisfactory for the reasons set out in section
5.3 above. The RPMO was well lead, well resourced, highly skilled, competent and stable as were the
PMOs at Prefecture and County levels. The RPMO was able to bring about effective coordination across
agencies, technical, administrative and political boundaries. The very pro-active, hands-on management
approach by the RPMO adopted for most of the project ensured smooth implementation and the ability to
identify and solve problems early. This enabled the implementation of this technically complex and
geographically wide-spread project to be completed on time and on budget with a very high level of impact.


In the early part of implementation (2000), the Bank rated implementation progress as unsatisfactory
because of problems getting the RPMO to act on recommendations in the aide memoire. This brought
about swift action by the XUAR government and corrective action by the RPMO and from this point on
implementation proceeded satisfactorily and then highly satisfactorily.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Consistent with comments in Section 5 and paragraph 7.4-7.6 above, the overall performance of the
borrower is rated highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.1 Based on the ICR review and continuous assessment of the project over the course of implementation,
the following lessons can be documented and used in similar situations as appropriate:

l Technical: (i) investment in canal lining as a water-saving measure should incorporate the use of at
    least 0.5mm thick geo-membrane (with welded joints) under conventional lining materials to ensure
    maximum long-term seepage control; (ii) the use of ET management and remote sensing is a very
    effective way to assess and manage water resources, both surface and groundwater, and to identify
    "real" water savings in water-short river basins; (iii) the community-driven LWMP process developed
    under the project provides an excellent framework to address, in both structural and non-structural
    terms, the complex water supply, drainage, salinity, high groundwater, agricultural and cropping
    systems, land management and environmental issues facing typical irrigation systems world wide; (iv)
    changing to a volumetric tariff system for irrigation water charges changes the incentive basis for
    farmers and is perhaps the single most important step to bring about water-savings; closely aligned
    with water-saving measures are the benefits brought about by laser-guided land leveling of land for
    irrigation; and (vi) any water resource project that has "bottom-up" reforms involving irrigation
    farmers should always have an agricultural support services component

l Institutional Reforms ­ IWRM: Any institutional reform process will only be delivered with strong
    political support and the right enabling policy and legal framework. The change process to bring about
    inclusive river basin based IWRM must include both integrated "bottom-up" and "top-down"




                                                     - 16 -

    measures.

l Natural Resources and Environmental Management: (i) development of a mechanism for defining
    the rights to water, including the in-stream environmental needs, and effective monitoring systems will
    drive sensible investment in water-saving measures, conjunctive use of surface and groundwater, water
    quality improvements and drainage; (ii) investment early in modern and effective data collection system
    and computer models that will allow sound analysis are fundamental to making informed,
    knowledge-based decisions.

l Social: River basin management arrangements should be consultative and include representation from
    all stakeholder groups. The establishment of WUAs is a fundamental part of institutional reform as it
    provides a focal point for communication and understanding by the farmers of their individual and
    collective responsibilities in efficiently using and managing water for irrigation.

l Project Management: (i) where multi-departments are involved in a project, identifying a lead agency
    that can effectively coordinate all the players, have sufficient political influence and minimize vested
    interest will have a big influence on project implementation performance and outcomes; (ii) there is no
    substitute for the preparation of good baseline data and a commitment to a well-designed and resourced
    M&E activity; and (iii) success of project elements and the project itself will be determined to a large
    part through the identification and cultivation of "champions for change" at all levels.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Detailed comments on the draft ICR were received and included in Annex 10 verbatim. In
summary, the borrower agreed that the draft ICR represented a fair, reasonable and objective
assessment and evaluation of the overall achievement of the PDOs and that the ratings given by the Bank to
each project component and to their performance are appropriate. The borrower assessed the Bank's
performance as highly satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:

None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Comments from AusAID

AusAID was very proud to have played an important and sometimes pivotal role in the highly successful
project outcomes. The contribution and impact of AusAID's assistance is reflected throughout the ICR.
For the record, the project was supported by AusAID technical assistance, through a trust fund in the
amount of about US$2.0 million. The technical assistance, which employed mostly Australian expertise in
river basin institutional development, IPM and LWMP, was designed, implemented and managed by the
Bank, as an integral part of the project and clearly contributed significantly to the overall achievement of
the project objectives and the high level of impact . The cooperation between AusAID and the Bank is seen
as a best practice example of how well designed, implemented and managed technical assistance can
enhance project outcomes.

10. Additional Information

A list of all significant research activities completed as part of the Agricultural Support Services and
Environmental Protection and Monitoring components are shown in Annex 11



                                                      - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

PDO               PAD Performance                      Target or Objective               Actual at Completion
                  Indicator                             Statement in PAD                        Dec 2004
                                                            Oct 1998                           Y/capita net
                                                           Y/capita net
1. Increase       Per capita incomes of Low                    802                                1328
incomes of poor   project beneficiaries  income
farmers           increased to specified HH
                  levels                 Medium                1235                               2344
                                         income
                                         HH
                                         High                  1888                               5439
                                         income HH
2. Establish     Consumptive use                   Establish and enforce water Water quota system now an integral part
mechanisms for allocations established             use quotas for TBWRC.       of the operations of the TBWRC,
sustainable use, and enforced                                                  supported by updated regulations (2005)
development                                                                    and an institutional model that ensures
management of                                                                  effective monitoring and enforcement.
water.
3. Partially      Volume of water                   No annual volume was       About 1.7 BCM of water was delivered
restore green     delivered below                   pre-established because    to the "Green Corridor" - May 2000
corridor          Daxihaizi Reservoir               there was no precedent in  to Dec 2004. This exceeded all
                                                    China for an               expectations
                                                    environmental water
                                                    allocation
Other Impacts    Incremental Grain                 274,000 tons                359,271 tons
                 Production
                 Incremental Cotton                 43,000 tons                67,459 tons
                 Production




Output Indicators:

 Project Component/ Activity           Unit       PAD           Formal       Actual      % Of
                                                Estimated        MTR                     MTR
                                                                revised
                                                               Estimate
 1. Water Conservancy
 Headworks                             No.          3              4           4           100
  Trunk/main canals                  No./km      37/739         65/1003     65/1009        100
  Main Drains                          km          848            1093        1092         100
 Reservoirs and live storage        No./mm3       2/98            1/98        1/98         100
 Wellfields and well numbers         No./No.     14/696         14/665       12/572        86
 Pumping stations and capacity      No./ m3/s     1/2.5           1/2.5       1/2.5        100
  Transmission line                    km          276             88          88          100
  Intake gates                         No.          28             27          24          89




                                                   - 18 -

Dike strengthened                km        150        325     325      100
Water resources monitoring spot  No.        29         29      29      100
Buildings                        M2                   3067    3067     100
2. Land Reclamation
Land reclamation area            Ha       75334      41424   41462     100
Lateral canal                    km        1230       983     973      99
Lined                            km        904        514     225      44
Field canal                      km        2885       1349    1102     82
Lined                            km        888         27      27      100
Structures                       No.      14758       7316    7838     107
Farm access roads                km        2115       1455    1360     93
3. Low-yield Land
Improvement
Improvement area                 Ha       105334     128553  123373    96
Lateral canal                    km        1068       1708    1367     80
Lined                            km        494        510     510      100
Field canal                      km        2159       2347    2006     85
Lined                            km        454         64      64      100
Structures                       No.       4931      11890   13008     109
4. SIDD Development
WSC
General Company                  No.   6           0         1      100
Branch Company                   No.   2           0         0      100
Demo WUA                         No.   8           15        15     100
Additional WUAs                                             208
5. Agricultural Support
Services
Seed Production Base             ha    6458       8346      8350   100
Seed Processing                  sqm   41441      26831     26800  99.9
Seed Testing Centers             sqm   28808      33022     33000  99.9
AGR Extension Stations           No.   40         46        46     100
Breeding Stations                sqm   1280       2080      2070   99.5
Breeding Stock                   head  13580      17619     15233  86.5
Technical Training Center        No.   8          7         7      100
Alfalfa production base          ha    2000       2666      2627   98.5
6. Environmental Protection
Economic Forestry                ha    3014       14341     14340  100
Windbreaks                       ha    6503        4176      4180   100




                                           - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
A. Water Conservancy                                     106.40        116.80          109.8
B. Land Reclamation                                       53.50         35.80           66.9
C. Land Improvement                                       25.30         64.00            253
D. Agriculture Support Service                            15.00         21.10          140.7
E. Environmental Protection & Monitoring                   9.70         16.90          174.2
F. Institutional Development & Support                    14.70         17.50            119
G. Tarim River Subproject                                 11.50         12.70          110.4
H. Regional Management                                     6.50           3.00          46.2


Total Baseline Cost                                      242.60        287.80
 Physical Contingencies                                   13.40                            0
 Price Contingencies                                      16.60                            0
                         Total Project Costs             272.60        287.80
                   Total Financing Required              272.60        287.80




                                                - 20 -

                    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (US$ million equivalent)




   a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by Bank loan. All final costs include contingencies.
   b/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured though national shopping, force account, consulting
   services, training, technical assistance services, etc.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                  Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank        Govt.        CoF.     Bank       Govt.        CoF.      Bank    Govt.  CoF.
A. Water Conservancy          70.50       49.80                 58.70      58.10                  83.3    116.7
B. Land Reclamation           27.80       32.90                 16.20      19.60                  58.3    59.6
C. Land Improvement           11.70       17.40                 28.70      35.30                  245.3   202.9
D. Agriculture Support        12.60        4.20                 14.30       6.80                  113.5   161.9
Services
E. Environmental              7.60         3.20                 12.60       4.30                  165.8   134.4
Protection & Monitoring
F. Institutional              7.70         7.50                  7.20      10.30                  93.5    137.3
Development & Support
G. Tarim River                6.80         6.00                  6.10       6.60                  89.7    110.0
Sub-project
H. Region Management          5.30         1.60                  2.80       0.20                  52.8    12.5
Total                        150.00       122.60                146.60     141.20                 97.7    115.2




                                                         - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Costs and Benefits

The major benefits of the project were generated by the following:
(a) water conservation; (b) land reclamation; (c) low yield land improvement; (d)agricultural support
services; (e)environmental improvements; and (f) social attributes.


(a) Water Conservation

l The Xinir Dam was the only new dam constructed under the project and is a multipurpose structure.
    When the reservoir reaches its designed capacity it will provide supplementary irrigation to about
    6,000 ha of farmland with estimated production increases of between 10% and 15%. The reservoir
    also is designed for regulating storage of water for the Tiemenguan and Shihuiyao hydro-stations. The
    dam also plays a pivotal role in re-regulating water to the lower river.

l Canal lining has increased water-use efficiency from about 60% to about 95%, and previous water
    losses have been reduced significantly. Gross water use has been reduced from an average of 14,310
    m3/ha to 11,010m3/ha.(-23%)

l Drainage canals constructed under the project helped in reducing soil salinization and improving
    agricultural productivity.

l Well fields constructed under the project provided 0.27 BCM of irrigation water and a similar amount
    of surface water was released for environmental purposes to the lower Tarim River `Green Corridor'.
    Additionally, establishment of the well fields has also played a role in reducing Non-beneficial
    Evapo-transpiration (NBET) or low efficiency Evapo-transporation and in providing much-needed
    irrigation water in drought or prolonged dry periods when surface water was not available.

(b) Land Reclamation
The total land reclamation implemented in the five project areas from 1998 to 2003 was 41,458.5 ha. As a
result, the accumulated production increase of the major crops in the six years from 1998 to 2004 was 220,
000 tons for wheat, 82,000 tons for cotton, and 116,000 tons for maize.

(c) Low Yield Land Improvement
From 1998 to 2003, some 123,101.6 ha of low yield land was improved. Through soil improvement, the
productivity of this area increased and stabilized. Compared to the base year of 1998, the yield of cotton
increased by 47% (1,520 kg/ha from 1,030 kg/ha) and that of wheat increased by 48% (6,053 kg/ha from
4,069 kg/ha). Diversification into higher-value crops was significant. The area planted to vegetable,
melons/water melons, alfalfa and fruit trees increased from 82,700 ha in 1998 to 230,600 ha in 2003.

(d) Agricultural Support Services
Through the effective implementation of the agricultural support services component, 97% of the project
area receives a supply of fine seed and 85% of the area planted to cotton utilizes IPM as part of the
cropping system.

(e) Environmental Improvements
From 2000 to 2004, six environmental water deliveries were made to the `Green Corridor' in the
downstream reaches of the Tarim River from the most downstream Daxihaizhi reservoir, totalling 1.7
BCM (See map). Consequently, vegetation along both banks of the downstream Tarim River has



                                                    - 22 -

recovered and the previously dying poplar diversifolia trees there are now reviving. Meanwhile, with food,
water, shelter and habitat conditions restored by environmental water deliveries, 11 species of fish, 25
species of birds and 7 species of amphibians, reptiles and other animals were counted in the downstream
area according to data from survey. The terminal lake system at Taitema, which remained dry for 30 years
prior to the start of environmental water releases, filled to a maximal water surface area of more than 200
km2. These benefits have not been quantified in this analysis.

(f) Social Attributes
Although they are not quantifiable, social benefits resulting from the project activities are important to
record:
(i) The number of farmer households having access to a safe surface drinking water supply increased by
63.2%, and those from groundwater wells increased by 33.4%;
(ii) Through establishing WUAs, farmers' awareness of participatory irrigation management has been
raised and their sense of water-saving has been increased through introduction of scientific irrigation and
water measurement facilities.
(iii) Women's social status has been upgraded and their employment opportunities have been increased
while on-farm labor intensity has been reduced.

Details of the economic and financial analysis, including crop budgets and farm models, are available in
the project files.

The main financial and economic indicators for each component and the project overall are summarized
below:




Income Analysis of Typical Farm Households

Under the project, track analyses of the sampled 1,100 farmer households in 22 project counties were
conducted for five consecutive years from 1998 to 2003. Fifty typical farmer households were selected in
each of the counties with the ratio of high, medium and low income being 3:4:3. For "with" and "without"
project situations, the impact on farmers' incomes was analyzed using data obtained from surveys of the
typical farmer households in Aksu prefecture to track the project's impact on poverty alleviation.




                                                     - 23 -

                      40000
                      35000
                      30000
                      25000
                      20000
                      15000
                      10000
                       5000
                          0
                                1998       1999      2000      2001        2002      2003

                                         High Income                 Medium Income
                                         low Income


 Figure 3.1 Changes of Income of Typical Farmer Households in High, Medium and Low Income Groups

Figure 3.1 indicates that in 1998 when the project commenced the income of the typical farmer households
was relatively high. However, due to low grain and cotton prices in China over the period from 1999 to
2000, income of all the typical farmer households in the project area fell to the lowest level. Starting from
2001, along with completion of some of the project's investment, farmer households in the project area
began to benefit gradually from the project. Meanwhile, rising market prices of the major crops, including
grain and cotton, together with reinforced agricultural subsidies from the central government resulted in
rapid income growth of the typical farmer households.

While general income growth occurred for all the typical households in the three groups (high, medium and
low), the income increase in percentage terms of the poorest farmer households group exceeded that of the
medium income group, and at the end of 2003 the low income group was fast approaching the medium
income group. This indicates that while the project brought benefits to all farmer households throughout
the project areas, it had greater impact on farmer households with low income and, therefore, strongly
supported the poverty alleviation objectives of the project.




            40000

            30000

            20000

            10000

                 0
                        1998       1999      2000      2001       2002       2003

                         Planting    Forestry     Animal husbandary     Other




        Figure 3.2 Income Structure of Farmer Households in High Income Group


                                                    - 24 -

            40000

            35000

            30000

            25000

            20000

            15000

            10000

             5000

                 0
                       1998       1999      2000        2001        2002       2003


                            Planting   Forestry   Animal husbandary        Other




        Figure 3.3 Income Structure of Farmer Households in Medium Income Group




              40000

              30000

              20000

              10000

                   0
                          1998           1999          2000           2001           2002         2003


                                     Planting   Forestry    Animal husbandary       Other




                 Figure 3.4 Income Structure of Typical Farmer Households in Low Income Group

The above figures 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 indicates the contribution to house hold income from cropping in the
high, medium and low income groups was around 80%. With full completion of the project, income from
crops will further increase particularly from diversified fruit tree crops that will only reach full productivity
over the next few years.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/15/1996                3    IRRIGATION ECONOMIST(1)
                                             WATER RESOURCES ENGIN
                                             (2)
              11/25/1996                4    IRRIGATION ECONOMIST(1);
                                             WATER RESOURCES
                                             ENGIN(1); DRAINAGE
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLIGIST (1)
              03/25/1997                2    IRRIGATION ECONOMIST(1);
                                             WATER RESOURCES ENGIN
                                             (1)
              05/18/1997              11     WATER RESOUR. ENGIN. (2);
                                             IRRIGATION ECONOMIST(1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL/FINANCIAL
                                             SPEC. (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST; (1)
                                             REVIER BASIIN MGT.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
                                             WATER ADMINISTRATION
                                             /SIDD SPEC. (1); FARMER
                                             ORG. SPEC (1); DRAINAGE
                                             ENGIN (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/15/1998                8    WATER RESOUR.
                                             ENGINEER (2);
                                             WATER RESOUR.
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             IRRIGATION ENGIN. (1);
                                             ENVIRON.SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); DRAINAGE
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGMENT SPEC. (1)

 Supervision

              11/14/1998                7    WAT. RS. ENG. (CO-TTL) (2);      S               S
                                             FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             IPM SPEC. (1)
              05/07/1999                6    CO-TTL WAT. RES. ENG. (2);       S               S




                                              - 26 -

                       AGRI./ENVIROMENTALIST
                       (1); INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.
                       (1); WAT. RES. MAN. SPEC.
                       (1); AGRI./IPM SPEC. (1)
      05/07/1999     4 CO-TTL WAT. RES. ENG. (2);    S     S
                       ECONOMIST (1);
                       INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
      05/07/1999     4 CO-TTL WAT.RES.ENG. (2);      S     S
                       ECONOMIST (1);
                       INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
      05/07/1999     3 CO-TTL (2); PROCUREMENT       S     S
                       (1)
      10/27/2000     3 CO-TTL - WAT. RES. ENG (2);   U     S
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1)


      06/08/2001     8 TTL (1); ECONOMIST (2);       S     S
                       IRRIGATION SPEC. (1);
                       WATER RESOURCES SPEC.
                       (1); SOCIAL SPEC. (1);
                       CONSULTANT (1);
                       INTERPRETER (1)
      11/30/2001     6 TTL (1); WATER RESOURCES      S     S
                       SPEC. (1); ECONOMIST (2);
                       IRRIGATION SPEC (1);
                       SOCIAL SPEC (1)


      06/22/2002     9 TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);     S     S
                       WAT. RES. ENG. (1);
                       ECONOMIST (1); FIN. MAN.
                       SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT
                       SPEC. (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                       SPEC. (1); IRRIGATION
                       ENGINEER (1); REMOTE
                       SENSING SPEC. (2)
       11/30/2002    5 TEAM LEADER (1); WATER        S     S
                       RESOURCES ENGINE (1);
                       IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                       AGRICULTURAL SPECIALIS
                       (1); PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST (1)
      11/14/2003     3 CO-TTL WR ENGINEER (1);       HS    HS
                       CO-TTL IRRIGATION SPEC
                       (1); SIDD/WUA SPEC (1)
      12/04/2004     4 WATER RESOURCES               HS    HS
                       SPEC.(1);
                       IRRIGATION ENGIN. (1);
                       SOCIAL DEVL. SPEC. (1);
                       AGRI. ECONOMIST (1)

ICR
      03/2005        4 IRRIGATION SPEC. (2);         HS    HS
                       WATER RESOUR. SPEC



                       - 27 -

                                            (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        495.38
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                       696.53
  ICR
  Total                                                            1191.91




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Formation and fostering of
WUAs. Social inclusion of RBM
consultative arrangements
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Report on Thematic Unified Management and Institutions Construction in the Tarim River Basin , -
  dated March 2005

l Report of Completing the Project, - dated March 2005

l Work Plan 2005-2007, - dated November 2004

l Implementation Completion Report, - dated March 2005

l Thematic Report on Development of Self-Management Irrigation & Drainage District and Water User
  Associations, - dated March 2005

l Land and Water Management Plan - Fengshou Irrigation Area, Awati County, - dated November 2004

l Paper Collection of the International Workshop on Tarim River Basin Management, - dated June 2004

l Irrigated Water Resources Management of the Tarim Basin - dated December, 2004

l Final Mission Report - Integrated Pest Management Component, April/May 2001 to
  August/September 2003

l Resettlement Action Plan (Chinese) - dated October 2004

l Monitoring and Evaluation Report of Year 2003-2004 - dated March 2005

l Special Implementation Completion Report on the Agricultural Development

l Project Implementation Plan (three volumes) - dated May 11, 1998




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. TBWRC Organization Responsibility and Consultative Arrangements




Notes;

1. Xinjiang Water Resources Bureau (XWRB). Is the regional government agency that has overall
   functionally responsible for all water resource development and management in the Region

2. Tarim Basin Water Resources Commission (TBWRC). Established in 1997. Headed by a Vice



                                                   - 32 -

   Governor of the XUAR government responsible for agricultural and water resources. Manages the
   WR within the Tarim River Basin and ensure rational and equitable allocation of water resources,
   including environment and consists of 4 parts, a SC, an EC, the EO and the TRMB. (details are set out
   below)

3. Standing Committee (SC) . Undertakes the strategic decisions on Basin wide comprehensive
   treatment and other issues. It reviews water allocation schemes, reviews the operational effectiveness
   of the TBMB and it's interaction with all water users within the Basin.

4. Executive Committee (EC). Is headed by same Vice Governor. The EC meet at least once each year
   (as mandated in the Regulations) to establish water quotas for each sub-basin and for the "Green
   Corridor", and to make other principal decisions relevant to the Commission. It acts for the full
   Commission when it is not in session and is responsible for and carries out policy and decision making
   in accordance with TBWRC/SC instructions.

5. Executive Office (EO). Headed by a Director of the Regional Water Bureau and is responsible for
   daily and routine liaison between the TBMB and the EC and other XUAR government departments.

Basin Operations

6. Tarim Basin Management Bureau (TBMB) is headed by a Deputy Director of the Regional Water
   Resources Bureau and is therefore administratively accountable the XWRB. The TBMB is the
   operating arm and responsible for basin wide planning, allocation and water operations in accordance
   with the Regulations and decisions of the TBWRC and the EC from time to time.

Consultative Mechanisms

7. Water Resources Coordination Committee (WRCC) meets several times a year and consists of
   Prefecture level Water Bureau chiefs. Involved in the detailed management and decision making at
   Basin level.

8. Irrigation District Committee x 2 (IDC). These committees have county level representation from the
   Irrigation Districts and in addition have 2 elected farmer
   members. The IDC are involved with TBMB staff in water operations involving planning and
   dispatching, generally on the basis of a 10 water ordering and delivery schedule and in accordance with
   annual quotas set by the TBWRC.




                                                    - 33 -

Additional Annex 9. Implementation Management of Safeguard Issues

The PPMO dealt effectively with four key safeguard issues through action and mitigation plans as
follows.

Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures (OP 4.01)
The RPMO and the PPMOs instituted and implemented very effective measures to mitigate environmental
impacts of the project. The successful mitigation strategy was based on the thorough Environmental
Impact assessment done as part of project preparation. This assessment identified the potential impacts of
the project across a wide range of environmental factors. The mitigation strategy was carried out around
the three forms of potential impact judge as potentially significant. These where (i) impacts on water and
salt balances in the sub-project areas and on the Tarim River as a whole; (ii) water quality impacts,
particularly in relation to water quality of Bosten Lake and (iii) impacts on cotton pest numbers in the
sub-project areas.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.30)
1.       A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared (in full compliance with OD 4.30) for the Tarim
Basin II Project in 1998. It was found that involuntary resettlement was involved for the Laodahe
Irrigation Canal Project in Aksu Prefecture only when a Thematic Supervision Mission was fielded in
2000. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was immediately requested, even though most of the resettlement
activities had been completed by then. The details of the resettlement were:

Key Factors                                                              RAP             Implementation
1. Land Acquisition (mu)                                                 1,387               1,387
2. House Demolition (sq.m)                                                856                 856
3. No. of Households Relocated                                             4                   4
4. No. of People Affected by Land Acquisition & Relocation                273                 273
5. Total Resettlement Cost (Y million)                                   2.97                 3.48

2.       A Resettlement Completion Report (RCR) was submitted by the Aksu PMO in December 2001.
An independent Resettlement Assessment Report (RAR) prepared by the Xinjiang Agriculture College in
March 2002 showed that the income of the project affected people (PAP) had not been restored in 2001,
due to the significant drop in markets prices for cotton and wheat and a decrease of the cultivated land. A
second RAR was requested and submitted to the Bank in October 2004. This report showed clearly that
the income and livelihood of the PAP have been greatly raised in the past two years after the 2,750 mu of
low-yielding land were improved and distributed among the affected farmers combined with an upswing in
commodity prices. The income of the PAPs is shown in the table below:

Year                                                               Income Per Capita
1999 before land acquisition                                             Y995
2000, the year of land acquisition                                       Y931
2001, the year after land acquisition                                    Y750
2002                                                                   Y1,918
2003                                                                   Y2,584

3.       The resettlement implementation was successful and the local people were satisfied. The
institutional capacity for resettlement implementation was built-up through training and both the Regional



                                                     - 34 -

and Aksu Prefecture PMOs were pro-active in managing the resettlement issues. This was the only
required involuntary resettlement action under the project.

Indigenous People (OD4.20)
Almost 90% of the of the project beneficiaries belonged to minority nationalities. (Under the project the
term "ethnic minorities" as referred to in the OP was replaced with the term "Minority Nationalities" having
the same meaning, but this term is consistent with the Chinese Constitution.) In order to ensure cultural
compatibility in project areas, a Local Beneficiaries Participation Plan was prepared by the borrower and
included in the PIP as an output from the social assessment carried out at part of project preparation.
Implementation of the Plan was the responsibility of the RPMO and was monitored annually as part of the
project M&E.

International Waters (OP7.50)
The main tributary rivers, the Kashgar and Aksu rise in the Kyrgyz Republic and in Tajikistan. An
"Exception to the Notification" requirements was sort and given by the EAPVP on August 18, 1997 on the
basis that the project involved minor additions or alterations to existing schemes that require rehabilitation
construction or other changes.

Dam Safety (OP 4.37)
The management of this safeguard issue was through the establishment of an independent dam safety
review panel (DSRP). In addition, the Provincial Water Resources Bureau assisted and provided technical
advice and standards to the Prefecture Water Resource Bureaus and the PMOs, and the Domestic Panel of
Experts (DEP) had at least one member who had dam construction skills and provided another source of
independent assessment and advice. There was only one new dam (Xinir Dam) constructed under the
project, but there existed several dams that served project facilities. For Xinir dam, a construction
supervision plan was approved by the Bank and adopted at appraisal. Existing dams were all inspected by
the DSRP and remedial actions identified and carry-out in order to ensure sustained and safe operations.
O&M plans for each dam were prepared and reviewed by the DSRP.

Integrated Pest Management (OP 4.09)
The IPM aspects of the project were very effectively managed and coordinated across the broad project
area through an IPM Training and Research Plan approved as part of the PIP. Both training and research
activities were closely supported by international technical assistance (AusAID Grant) and by national
consultants. Over the course of the project training was directed at both agricultural technical staff as well
as farmers. The outcomes were to change traditional ideas and approaches to managing pests particularly
in cotton. The independent project M&E showed that at the end of the project, 85% of the HH had at least
a basic understanding of IPM . Despite this basic understanding, the M&E also recorded that 84% of the
HH relied heavily on the advice and guidance on pest management from the agricultural office or from the
technical extension staff .

Between 1998 -2004 the chemical pesticide application on cotton crops reduced by 52% and that the use of
biological pest control increased significantly as shown in the table below:




                                                     - 35 -

- 36 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Comments in Detail

 The following comments were received from the borrower and are reproduced hereunder
verbatim.

             Xinjiang World Bank Financed Project Management Office
                            No.16 Mingde Road ,Urumqi, Xin-jiang 830002,China
                             Tel:86+991+2336892 . Fax:86+991+2810084

DATE: May 25, 2005                                       NO.OF PAGES:02          LOG NO.:

FOR:             Geoffery.Spencer, Co-Task Team Leader of Tarim II Project
Organization: World Bank Resident Mission in China (RMC)
City/County: Beijing, China

FROM:       Wang Fuqiang, Deputy Director of Xinjiang Regional Finance Bureau/ Regional PMO

                                  SUBJECT: Comments For Draft ICR
                                China-Tarim Basin II Project(Cr./Ln.3093/4341-CHN)

Dear Mr. Spencer,

         Please refer to your E-mail dated May 5,2005 with attached Draft for ICR Comment, which we
received and carefully reviewed and discussed with all project implementing agencies concerned. Based on
the statement and description for the Borrower's performance and the Project implementation status and all
data provided in Draft ICR, we couldn't agree more on your general assessments of overall achievement of
the Project Objectives and Output and the evaluation for achievements and output of each components
under the Project. We think all assessment and evaluation are fair, reasonable and objective. They are
exactly in conformity with the Project implementing achievements and actually reflect the real situation and
outcome of the Project. We are quite satisfied with all of your assessment , overall evaluation of Project
Performance: (a) the revised Regulations on Tarim Basin Water Resources Management was adopted by
the Regional People's Congress on March 25, 2005, which ensures sustainability of river basin
management in Tarim River Basin; (b) the final version of the pilot Land and Water Management Plan in
Awati County of Aksu was completed and expected to be implemented as a Basin level pilot initiative; (c)
the successful SIDD/WUA component: so far about 1,807 WUAs have been established in the Tarim Basin
and the total number of the WUAs will reach 6,803 to cover the whole irrigation areas in Tarim Basin by
2008; (d) Seven ICRs (including the regional consolidated ICR and the five prefecture ICRs and TMB
ICR) and three special studies were completed with good quality in general; and (e) both project investment
and physical works were fully completed as planned in MTR and disbursement of the Bank loan was fully
made against the planned investments, and three project objectives are successfully accomplished. We are
quite pleased to share your views of ratings on the following aspects: The ratings for achievement of
Objectives and Outputs, the ratings for Outputs by all Components, the ratings for Borrower Performance.
We also agree on your perspective of the Project Sustainability.

         We would like to thank the Bank ICR Mission for arduous efforts made and a great deal of
efficient jobs done during the ICR Mission and we appreciate very much that the Bank officials, specialists,
consultants, particularly the Task-team Leaders have provided good cooperation, helpful recommendation,
constructive suggestions and strong supports and assistance for the successful implementation of the



                                                  - 37 -

Project during the past six years.

        We look forward to a continued good and close cooperation with you on future projects.

        Best regards,

                                                    Sincerely,
                                                    Wang Fuqiang
                                                    Deputy Director of
                                                    Xinjiang Regional Finance Bureau
                                                     Xinjiang Regional PMO




                                                - 38 -

Additional Annex 11. Research Topics by Project Areas


    Research Topics by Project Areas        Completion Impacts Achieved
                                              Status
 Tarim Basin Management Bureau
 1. Tarim River Groundwater/Surface          Completed  Useful references provided for locating monitoring
 Water Monitoring and Protection                        sections along the Tarim River for both surface and
                                                        underground water monitoring
 2. Research on Exchange of Underground      Completed  Useful references provided for better water resources
and Surface Water of Tarim River                        utilization in the Tarim Basin
 Kizilsu
 1. Water Measurement and                    Completed  References provided for construction of water
 Engineering Planning                                   measurement structures, increase of water prices and
                                                        volumetric water charges.
 2. Research on High Yield Grain             Completed The systematic study on multi-planting of winter wheat
Production                                              and corn provides technical support to farmers for
                                                        productivity increase
 3. IPM for Cotton Production                Completed Biological methods are used to improve pest control
                                                        effect.
 4. Research on Improving Crop Yield on      Completed Optimized methods found to increase production of
cotton, wheat and corn                                  cotton, maize and rape seeds, which are helpful in
                                                        adjusting the cropping pattern in the prefecture
 5. Research on Combined Use of Surface      Completed Provides useful reference for better management and
and Underground Water                                   utilization of water resources
 6. Water and Salt Balance Analysis and      Completed Better understanding obtained concerning groundwater
Monitoring                                              level and quality, utilization of water and land
                                                        resources, status of water engineering structures
                                                        including drainage structures, etc. and basic data
                                                        provided for rational utilization of water resources
 7. Study on Drip Irrigation System          Completed  Suitable practice for use of drip irrigation identified to
                                                        save water through experiments
 Kash
 1. Research on Cotton Pest Control          Completed  The IPM methods identified are now used to control
                                                        cotton pests in an area of more than 500 thousand mu
                                                        now, with cotton production increase of 8.2kg/mu and
                                                        reduction of pesticide use by 5.4 yuan/mu in the
                                                        demonstration area
 2. Research on High Yield Wheat             Completed New wheat variety selected to suit the local conditions
Production                                              and standardized planting methods identified for high
                                                        wheat yield. In the demonstration area of 600 thousand
                                                        mu, wheat production increase of 36kg/mu was
                                                        achieved.
 3. Research on Balanced Fertilizer for Soil Completed Balanced fertilizer provided with reduction of
Improvement                                             phosphorus use thus production cost can be reduced
 4. Research on Cropping Techniques for      Completed Benefits produced through study on and demonstration
Cotton                                                  of suitable and high yielding cropping techniques in
                                                        the prefecture
 5. Study on High Quality Fruit Trees        Completed Good quality apricot and pomegranate selected and
                                                        production standards set up
 6. Study on Micro-Sprinkler and Low         Completed The study indicates that micro-Sprinkler method is



                                                   - 39 -

Pressure Pipe Irrigation Methods                    unsuitable except for grass or alfalfa and suggests
                                                    obvious benefits of water saving by using low pressure
                                                    pipe for irrigation
 7. Study on Drip Irrigation Method      Completed  The study proves great benefits of using drip irrigation
                                                    method for fruit trees and demonstrates the technique in
                                                    pilot areas
 Bayangol
 1. Water and Salt Balance Analyses      Completed  Reports produced on Bosten Lake Environmental
2. Study on Interaction of Surface and   Completed  Protection and water resources in the Kaidu-Kongqi
Underground Water                                   River Basin, so that references provided for engineering
3. Research on Carrying Capacity of the  Completed  plan for groundwater utilization and environmental
Bosten Lake                                         protection

 4. Research on Eutrophication of the    Completed
Bosten Lake
5. New Technology Research for Cotton    Completed Solutions provided to solve water shortage problem for
Production                                          cotton production and upgrade cotton quality,
                                                    production and economic benefits through research on
                                                    water-saving techniques and suitable planting density
                                                    of cotton.
6. IPM Research for Cotton Pest Control  Completed Effective measures provided to control cotton pest,
                                                    protect cotton land ecology and farm land
                                                    environment, and thus ensure stable cotton
                                                    development in the prefecture
7. Research on Pear Disease Control      Completed Measures found to achieve better nutritious condition
                                                    of the trees and increase of weight and quality of each
                                                    fruit and the total production, thus total production,
                                                    economic benefits and farmers' income have been
                                                    improved
 8. Research on High Yield Maize         Completed  Effective measures provided to increase maize
Production                                          production, quality and economic benefits through
                                                    providing adaptable seeds, plastic film coverage
                                                    planting methods, optimized and balanced fertilizers
                                                    and suitable planting density
 Aksu
 1. Land and Water Management Plan       Completed  Provide a good example for participatory "bottom-up"
 in Fengshou Irrigation Area                        water planning and management and useful references
                                                    for irrigation water saving and control with production
                                                    enhanced
2. Water and Salt Monitoring and         Completed Provide useful understanding of water and salt
Research                                            movement in the sub-river basin and guidance for
                                                    future water and salt management
3. Water and Salt Balance Modeling and   Completed
Analysis
4. Use of GIS Techniques in Agricultural Completed Management system developed for project
Engineering                                         management and implementation
 5. Use of EM38 in Soil Survey           Completed  Soil conditions figured out to guide soil improvement
                                                    and water utilization
6. Analysis of Laser Guided Land         Completed A detailed analysis of the laser land-leveling in Aksu
Leveling Pilot in Awaiti County, Aksu               Prefecture, Awaiti County confirms that the laser
Prefecture                                          land-leveling is cheaper, far more effective and more
                                                    accurate per mu that conventional land leveling using




                                               - 40 -

                                                      bull dozers; saves water by 20% and reduces the
                                                      irrigation timing by one day in five (20%), increases
                                                      productivity of main crops (15%); decreases time and
                                                      labor by farmers; improves the land utilization rate and
                                                      fertilizer effectiveness.
Hotan
1. Research on Low Yield Land              Completed  Effective measures provided to improve low yield land
Improvement                                           and thus increase agricultural productions
2. Research on Use of Plastic Film to Save Completed Effective water-saving measures provided to increase
Water                                                 agricultural production
3. IPM                                     Completed Effective measures found to control pests of fruits and
                                                      vegetables and thus agricultural production increased
4. Research on High Yield Winter Wheat     Completed Good quality winter wheat variety provided and thus
                                                      agricultural production increased
 5. Water and Salt Monitoring and          Completed  Useful references provided for better water and salt
Modeling                                              management and control
Regional
1. Analyses on Water Quality Changes       Completed  Understanding obtained concerning water and land
of the Tarim River Basin                              changes and quality throughout the Tarim River Basin
2. Special Study on Eco-environmental      Completed  by using techniques including remote sensing, thus
Changes in Tarim Basin                                helped in planning and decision-making for the
3. Remote Sensing Investigation on         Completed  immediate improvement of the river basin
Changes of Land and Water     Resources
of the Major Tributaries and Mainstream
of Tarim River
4. Nine Case Studies on International      Completed Case studies prepared by Aus-Aid technical assistance
Advanced River Basin Management                       consultants provide knowledge of best practice for
Practice and the Implication to Tarim                 river basin management in the world and useful
Basin                                                 references and suggestions made available for Tarim
                                                      river basin
5. Remote Sensing Monitoring in the        Completed Useful data provided for land and water management
Awati Pilot Area                                      planning
6. Study on Irrigation Management in       Completed Insight into a typical irrigation area provided to better
Maigaite County, Kashgar                              understand the best way to saving water and upgrade
                                                      irrigation management
7. Thematic Study on Irrigation            Completed Details the very successful experience in improving the
Management in Maigaiti County.                        land and water use efficiency in Maigaiti County,
                                                      Kashgar Prefecture. Findings confirm that the water
                                                      quota to farm plots had been steadily reduced, but the
                                                      production increased considerably, as did the area
                                                      irrigated. Some inexpensive improvements were
                                                      carried out to the irrigation systems, and the
                                                      installation of some drainage canals caused the water
                                                      table to drop, the drainage and salinity problems were
                                                      alleviated. A major portion of non-beneficial ET was
                                                      eliminated and converted to crop consumptive use.




                                                 - 41 -

Additional Annex 12. Pictorial Overview of the Tarim Basin and Project Achievements




                                          - 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

- 49 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 29489

                                              74°                                             78°                                              82°                                          86°                                      90°                                  94°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TARIM RIVER BASIN II PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                         Lake
                                                                                                                                                                        Zaysan                                                                                                                                                                  XINJIANG PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                              Habahe

                                                                      K A Z A K H S T A N                                                      To Novosibirsk                                                        Altay                                                                                                                                 PROJECT AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Burqin
                                                                                                                           To Novosibirsk                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "GREEN CORRIDOR"

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake               Fuyun                                                                                                                     FLOOD CONTROL EMBANKMENTS

 46°                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ulungur                                                                                                                                      TARIM BASIN I PROJECT AREAS
                                                             Lake                                                                                          Tacheng                                Utubulak                                 Qinghe                  M O N G O L I A
                                                         Balkhash                                          To Novosibirsk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PERENNIAL/SEASONAL RIVERS AND STREAMS
                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                                            Alakol                                                                                                                                                                                                         DAMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ertai                                                                                                                   DAMS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                    Yumin
                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake                                                                                                                                                        DESERT
                                                                                                                                                                    Karamay                   Manas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HIGHER ELEVATIONS:

                                                                                                                                                       Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                        2000 - 3999 METERS
                                                                                                                                           Bole       Ebinur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4000 METERS AND ABOVE

                                                                                   To Alma-Ata                             Lake
                                                                                                                          Sayram                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED TOWNS OR CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                    Shihezi
                                                                                                                              Huocheng                                                                                                                                 Santanghu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PREFECTURE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                           Yining                                                                                               Qitai
                                                                                                                                                                                                Changji                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                               ÜRÜMQI                                        Lake                                                                                          HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Barkol
                                                                                                                              Zhaosu                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I     N
                      K Y R G Y Z                                                                                                                                                                                       U     N     T     A               S                                                                                                RAILROAD UNDER CONST RUCTION
                                                                                                                                                      T I        A     N      S H         A      N         M      O                                                                   Yiwu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
 42°                                                                     Lake
                   R E P U B L I C                                                                                                                                                                                              Turpan
                                                                       Issyk-Kul                                                                                                                                                                                            Hami
                                                                                                                                                                                  Balguntay                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                              To Naryn,            AKSU RIVER BASIN                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                Bishkek           AKSU SUB-PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                 Dananhu                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                            Keyi                                                                                 Aydingkol
                                                                See IBRD 29493 for details       Aksu R.        Peak
                                                                                                             Peabody                  Kaiser                                                                           KAIDU-KONQI RIVER BASIN
                                                                                                              7439 m                                                                                                                                                                                   42°
                                                                                                                                        Dam                                                Yanji
                                                                                                                                                    Kuqa               TARIM RIVER                                       BAYINGOL SUB-PROJECT
                       KASHGAR RIVER BASIN                                                                                                                                                                   Bosten
                                                                                                                                                                      SUB-PROJECT                                       See IBRD 29494 for details
                         KIZILSU SUB-PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                         Aksu                                                                         Korla
                     See IBRD 29492 for details                                   Akqi                                                            Xayar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Xingdi
                                                                                                                                                           150 km Flood Control
                                                                                    Kalpin                                    Aral                River                                LuoHuLuKe                    DaXiHaiZi
                                                                                                       Awati                              Tarim               Embankment                                            Reservoir
To Osh                                                                                                                                                                                   Reservoir
                                                                                                 River                                                        in Two Banks
                                                                                                                                  Weigan River                                                                                              Lake                                                  To Yumen
                                                                                                                                                                            26 Control Gates                                                                                      G A N S U
                            Wuqia                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lop-Nor
                                                       Atushi                          Kashgar                                    Basin Scheme
                                                                                                                               Tarim Basin I Project                       within middle reach
                                                                                                                                                                              of Tarim River
                                      Kashi                                            Bachu
                                                                Jiashi                      River
                                                  Aketao       Yuepuhu            Yergiang                    HotanRiver                                                                                                                                                                                                              RUSSIAN

                                                                                KASHGAR RIVER BASIN                                                                                                                                                                I    N     S                                                      FEDERATION

                                 Kongur Shan                                    KASHGAR SUB-PROJECT                                                                                                                                                       T  A                               KAZAKHSTAN
TAJIKISTAN                       7718 m                                        See IBRD 29491 for details                                                                                                           Taitema Lake                     N                                                                                                                                                  HEILONGJIANG

                                  Muztagata                                                                             T A K L I M A K A N D E S E R T                                                  Ruoqiang                            U
 38°                              7546 m                  Shache                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                  Yerqiang River Basin Scheme                                                                                                                   M                                                                                                              MONGOLIA                                                    JILIN
                                                                                      Tarim Basin I Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                Taxkorgan                              Yecheng                                                                                                                                      N                                                                        KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIAONING                    of
                                                                              Pishan
                                             K                                                                            HOTAN RIVER BASIN                                                                                                                                                   REP.                                                                                                              D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                  Qiemo                       U                                                                                            XINJIANG                                                                                              KOREA       Japan
AFGHAN-                                                                                                                  HOTAN SUB-PROJECT                                                               T                                                     Q I N G H A I           38°                                                                             MONGOL     BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEI          BEIJING
   ISTAN                                            U                                                                   See IBRD 29490 for details                                                  L                              Lake                                                                AREA OF MAP                                                                         TIANJIN                 REP. OF          JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEBEI
                                                             N                           Hotan
                                                                                                    Lopu                                                                                      A                                    Ayakkum                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANXI      SHANDONG          Yellow
 PAKISTAN               Kunjerap                                                                              Qira                                                                                                 Lake                                     To Golmud                                                         QINGHAI                                                                       Sea
                           Pass                                    L                                                                                                                                               Aqqikkol                                                                                                                                 NINGXIA                              JIANGSU
                         4700 m                                         U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GANSU
                                                                                            Wuluwati                                      Minfeng                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHAANXI    HENAN
                                                                                            Dam
                                              K2                              N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI           SHANGHAI      E a s t
                                          8611 m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XIZANG                                                       HUBEI
    To Islamabad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SICHUAN                                            ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEPAL                                                                                                              C h i n a

                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHONGQING                                               S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HUNAN     JIANGXI
                                                                                                            O                                                                                                                                              0    50    100   150  200
                                                                                                                         U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FUJIAN
                                                                                                                               N       T     A                                                                                                                                                                                                             GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                    I      N      S                                                                                                KILOMETERS                           National Capital                                                                                   TAIWAN

  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YUNNAN                             GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUANGXI
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Province Boundaries                                                                                       P h i l i p p i n e
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                          X I Z A N G                                                                                                                                                                                                        HONG KONG
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Boundaries                                                       MACAO, PORT.                     S e a
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B a y    o f               MYANMAR      LAO   VIETNAM

                                                                   78°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAINAN
                                                                            To Shiquanhe                                     82°                                                   86°                                                  90°                                        94°                                                 THAI-       P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B e n g a l                                                                                          PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 1998

