Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3093 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4341 CHA
Project Agreement
(Tarim Basin II Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated July 31, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3093 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4341 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION (XUAR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,600,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that XUAR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to ninety 
million dollars ($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that XUAR agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS XUAR, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.03 hereof) reference to the Association, the 
Credit or the Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank, the Loan 
and the Loan Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) XUAR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, water resource management and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and XUAR shall otherwise agree, XUAR shall take the 
actions set forth or referred to in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, in order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) XUAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable 
to the Loan Agreement, and without limitation thereto, XUAR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and XUAR, 
a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with XUAR on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) XUAR shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b) 
XUAR shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by XUAR of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) XUAR shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of the Project.
(b)  
XUAR shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied appropriate 
auditing principles, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association may from 
time to time, 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
XUAR thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their respective 
terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify XUAR of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the General Conditions applicable to 
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For XUAR:
Tarim Basin II Project Management Office
16 Minde Avenue, Urumqi  830002
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of XUAR may be 
taken or executed by the Vice Chairman of XUAR responsible for agriculture or such 
other person or persons as such Vice Chairman shall designate in writing, and XUAR 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to XUAR 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of XUAR to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, XUAR shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 1(b) and 1(c) of this Part C, works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $39,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Beneficiary Participation
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $57,300,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines, or by the use of Project beneficiaries hired in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Goods
Page  6
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,400,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Goods (including, without limitation, breeding animals and tree seedlings) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $7,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:  (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more; and (c) in each calendar year, the first two contracts for works 
to be procured by each Project Prefecture in accordance with the provisions of Part 
C.1(a) of this Section I for which the invitations to bid are issued in that calendar 
year; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  7
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project and the continued 
achievement of its objectives, XUAR shall at all times maintain with terms of 
reference, composition, and resources satisfactory to the Association, and with 
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers:
1.
TBWRC, to be responsible for comprehensive integrated management of water and 
related resources in the Tarim Basin, including establishment of overall policies and 
plans with regard to the development, utilization, protection and management of these 
water resources;
2.
a project management office at the Regional-level, to be responsible for the 
overall management of Project implementation;
Page  8
3.
a project management office in each Project Prefecture and in each county of 
said prefecture, to be responsible for the management of Project activities to be 
implemented at its respective level; and
4.
an independent panel of experts to be responsible for providing technical advice 
to the PMOs and undertaking annual reviews of the Project.
B.
Tarim Basin Water Resources Use Quotas
In order to ensure the rational and sustainable utilization of water resources 
within the Tarim Basin, XUAR shall establish and enforce water utilization quotas for 
each Project Prefecture designed to maintain adequate flows through the tributaries of 
the Tarim River, to the Tarim River mainstream.  To this end, XUAR shall:
1.
establish, through TBWRC, not later than December 1, 1998, in consultation with 
each Project Prefecture and in accordance with the Regulations on the Management of 
the Water Resources of the Tarim Basin, annual gross water utilization quotas for each 
said prefecture, apply said quotas commencing calendar year 1999, and furnish said 
quotas, promptly upon their establishment, to the Association for information;
2.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, 
in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the utilization of water 
resources by each Project Prefecture, and prepare and furnish annual reports to the 
Association not later than February 28 in each calendar year summarizing the results 
of said monitoring and evaluation activities during the preceding calendar year, 
setting forth any proposed revisions to the established water utilization quotas 
indicated by said results, and recommending measures to improve the rational and 
efficient utilization of water resources by the Project Prefectures; and
3.
introduce any necessary adjustments to the water utilization quotas of the 
Project Prefectures and take any further measures recommended by said report, taking 
into account the views of the Association in the matter.
C.
Local Beneficiaries Participation Action Plan; Resettlement
1.
XUAR shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all persons affected by 
the Project fully participate in its design and implementation and receive social and 
economic benefits from the Project that are compatible with their cultural 
preferences.  To this end, XUAR shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Local Beneficiaries Participation Action Plan.
2.
XUAR shall ensure that all works to be carried out under the Project shall be 
planned in accordance with the objective of avoiding, where feasible, any change in 
land or water use that would result in the involuntary loss by persons of shelter, of 
productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood.  
To this end, XUAR shall ensure that each Project Prefecture gives due attention to 
said objective in the preparation of annual civil works plans for the Project pursuant 
to Part J.2(a) of this Schedule.  If, during the preparation of any such civil works 
plans, a Project Prefecture determines that such change in land or water use would 
nevertheless be unavoidable, XUAR shall ensure that said Project Prefecture takes the 
following actions, and shall confirm to the Association that said actions have been 
taken, prior to the commencement of any such civil works:
(a) 
The Project Prefecture shall prepare a resettlement action plan, on the 
basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria 
acceptable to the Association, so as to improve the living standards and production 
levels of said persons, and furnish said action plan to XUAR, and, if more than 200 
persons are involved, to the Association, for approval.  
(b)
The Project Prefecture shall carry out such resettlement action plan as 
shall have been approved by XUAR (and the Association, if more than 200 persons are 
involved).
D.
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the safety of the dam which is to be constructed under Part 
A(1)(b) of the Project and its associated structures (the Project Dam) and all dams 
Page  9
which serve or could affect the Project and their associated structures (the Related 
Dams), XUAR shall undertake the following actions in accordance with sound engineering 
practices and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association.
1.
Project Dam
(a)
XUAR shall:  (i) undertake periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design 
and construction of the Project Dam, throughout the period of its construction and the 
start of its operations; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Association, promptly upon 
the completion of each said review, a report of the results of said review, together 
with any recommended changes to be introduced into the design, construction or 
operation of the Project Dam; and (iii) thereafter, promptly introduce the changes 
recommended by said report, taking into account the views of the Association on the 
matter.  In order to assist it in undertaking said reviews, XUAR shall employ a panel 
of independent experts, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association.
(b)
XUAR shall ensure that the Project Dam is operated and maintained in 
accordance with sound engineering practices.  To this end, XUAR shall:  (i) prepare an 
operational and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness plan for the Project 
Dam; (ii) furnish the same to the Association not later than December 31, 2001; and 
(iii) thereafter, promptly adopt said plans, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
(c)
Upon completion of the Project Dam, XUAR shall:  (i) undertake annual 
inspections of the Project Dam in order to identify any deficiencies in its design, 
construction or condition or in the quality and adequacy of the maintenance or methods 
of its operation, which may endanger its safety or the safety of downstream life, 
property or activities; and (ii) promptly rectify any such deficiencies.
2.
Related Dams
XUAR shall:  (a) undertake an inspection of the Related Dams in order to 
evaluate their condition and the quality and adequacy of their maintenance and methods 
of operation; (b) prepare and furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 
2001 a report on said evaluation, together with any recommendations indicated by said 
evaluation in order to ensure the safety of said dams and the safety of downstream 
life, property and activities; and (c) promptly implement said recommendations, taking 
into account the comments of the Association on the matter.  To assist it in 
undertaking said inspection, XUAR shall employ one or more independent experts whose 
terms of reference, qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the 
Association.
E.
Keping Voluntary Settlement Action Plan
XUAR shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the emigration of all 
Keping Settlers to the Laoqilang Project Area shall be implemented on a voluntary 
basis and in a manner designed to improve their living standards and productivity and 
the living standards and productivity of those persons who remain in the villages of 
origin of the Keping Settlers.  To this end, XUAR shall carry out said emigration in 
accordance with the Keping Voluntary Settlement Action Plan.
F.
Land Improvement and Use; Agricultural Support Services
1.
Leases
All wasteland reclaimed under the Project shall be leased to farming families, 
under arrangements acceptable to the Association, designed to give priority in the 
allocation of such land to poor families and to ensure the productive use of such 
land, such arrangements to include:
(a) 
a written lease agreement whereby:  (i) said land shall be leased to 
families for a duration of at least 30 years; (ii) land made available to poor 
families shall be leased on a rent-free basis for the first 3 years of the lease, and 
thereafter, on a rent-paying basis; and (iii) in the case of land leased to Keping 
Settlers, at least 0.27 hectares of said land per family member shall be made 
available to each family for the purposes of production;
Page  10
(b) 
exemption from water resource fees and agricultural taxes on said land 
for the first 5 years of the lease; and
(c)
exemption from collective fees on said land for the first 3 years of the 
lease.
2.
Cotton Planting
In furtherance of its objective of ensuring adequate control of cotton pests 
within its territory, XUAR shall take the following measures:
(a)
XUAR shall, through the Project Prefectures, (i) maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate the cropping patterns in each said 
prefecture in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, and (ii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association not later than February 28 in 
each calendar year, a report summarizing said monitoring and evaluation activities 
during the preceding calendar year.
(b)
If any such report from a Project Prefecture indicates that the total 
area of farmland planted with cotton in any county in said Project Prefecture would, 
during the following twelve-month period, exceed 40% of the total area of farmland in 
said county, XUAR shall take all reasonable measures (including carrying out of 
information campaigns and introduction of appropriate financial incentives) with a 
view to maintaining said ratio at a level which both the Association and XUAR agree is 
necessary to ensure proper control of cotton pests.
(c)
XUAR shall carry out the integrated pest management training under Part 
B(2) of the Project in accordance with a program and a timetable, both acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Fertilizer Mixing Stations
Prior to commencing any works to construct the fertilizer mixing stations 
included in Part B(5) of the Project, XUAR shall prepare feasibility studies of said 
stations under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and furnish the same 
to the Association for its approval.  XUAR shall not commence any of said works unless 
and until the Association shall have notified it of its acceptance of the feasibility 
of said stations based on the results of said feasibility studies.
G.
Irrigation Management
1.
Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage Districts
(a)
Under Part C(2) of the Project, XUAR shall:
(i)
carry out a pilot program, acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with a 
time-table acceptable to the Association, for the 
establishment and operation 
in each Project Prefecture of 
self-financing irrigation and drainage 
districts, comprising at 
least one WSC and one WUA;
(ii)
(A) carry out, not later than April 1, 2000, under terms of 
reference 
acceptable to the Association, an evaluation of the 
establishment and 
operation of said SIDDs, and on the basis of 
said evaluation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later 
than June 30, 2000 a report setting forth the 
results of said evaluation 
and recommendations (including a time-bound action 
plan of measures) to 
further strengthen institutional arrangements for water 
resources 
management, so as to ensure the sustainability and self-financing of 
irrigated agriculture, improve irrigation system performance and effective 
decentralized irrigation services, cost recovery and farmer participation 
in 
the Project Areas; and (B) thereafter, promptly implement said 
recommendations 
and plan, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
(b)
The rights and obligations of each WSC established under Part C(2) of the 
Page  11
Project shall be defined and set forth in a water system operation and maintenance 
contract, prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association to be 
entered into between XUAR, acting through the Project Prefecture in which said WSC 
shall operate, and said WSC, upon the establishment of said WSC, said contract to (i) 
define the facilities to be transferred to said WSC and which said WSC shall be 
responsible to operate and maintain, (ii) set forth the respective responsibilities of 
said Project Prefecture and WSC, and the sources and levels of funds, staffing and 
other resources to be provided to said WSC to enable it to carry out said 
responsibilities and (iii) authorize and empower said WSC to collect the water charges 
referred to in Section 2 of this Part G from the WUAs which use water delivered 
through said facilities in accordance with the terms of Water Users’ Contracts to be 
entered into between said WSC an
d said WUAs.
(c)
The rights and obligations of each WUA established under Part C(2) of the 
Project shall be defined and set forth in a water users’ contract, prepared in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, to be entered into between 
said WUA and the WSC responsible for operating and maintaining the facilities through 
which water used by said WUA is delivered, upon the establishment of said WUA, said 
contract to (i) define the facilities which said WUA shall be responsible to operate 
and maintain, (ii) set forth the respective responsibilities of said WSC and WUA, and 
the sources and levels of funds to be provided to said WUA to enable it to carry out 
said responsibilities, and (iii) authorize and empower said WUA to collect the water 
charges referred to in Section 2 of this Part G from its members who use water 
delivered through said facilities.
(d)
XUAR shall take all measures necessary to ensure that each WSC and each 
WUA established in said SIDDs, is authorized and empowered, promptly upon its 
establishment, to collect the water charges referred to in Section 2 of this Part G in 
respect of water delivered through the facilities under its respective responsibility, 
in accordance with the terms of its respective Water System Operation and Maintenance 
Contract or Water Users Contract (as the case may be).
(e)
XUAR shall ensure that the right of local governments to charge customary 
labor taxes in respect of irrigation and drainage responsibilities assumed by each WSC 
and WUA established in said SIDDs, shall be assigned to said WSC and WUA under 
arrangements acceptable to the Association, promptly upon their establishment.
2.
Water Charges
(a)
In furtherance of its policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation 
and maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and water supply facilities included in 
the Project Prefectures, including those constructed under the Project, from users of 
the water delivered through said facilities, taking into account the need to provide 
incentives to encourage the efficient use of water and to relate the charges on the 
users thereof to their ability to pay and income levels, XUAR shall establish and 
collect, through the Project Prefectures, water charges from said users, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and commencing December 31, 1999, such 
charges to be sufficient to cover (i) the operation and routine maintenance costs of 
said facilities as they are incurred, (ii) the cost of replacement and repair of 
structures, equipment and installations in respect of said facilities over a period 
not to exceed 30 years and (iii) a reasonable portion of the debt repayment and debt 
service obligatio
ns incurred in respect of said facilities.
(b)
XUAR shall, through the Project Prefectures, review and adjust the above 
charges in consultation with the Association, at regular intervals not exceeding 2 
years each, so as to continue to give effect to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Part G.2.
(c)
XUAR shall, through the Project Prefectures, maintain a separate 
accounting for funds collected pursuant to the provisions of the above paragraphs and 
cause all said funds to be used exclusively for the purposes specified therein.
3.
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Systems
In order to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the irrigation 
Page  12
systems included in the Project, XUAR shall:  (a) through the Project Prefectures, 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than December 31, 1999, proposed operation and maintenance plans 
for such systems in each Project Prefecture; (b) afford the Association a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with XUAR on said plans; and (c) thereafter, ensure the 
prompt implementation of each said plan, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
H.
Tarim Basin and Bosten Lake Master Plans; MIS
1.
Under Parts C(1)(d) and C(5) of the Project, XUAR shall prepare under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association:
(a)
a master plan for Bosten Lake and the Kaidu catchment, not later than 
December 31, 1999; and
(b)
a master plan for the Tarim Basin and its tributaries, not later than 
December 31, 2001.
2.
XUAR shall exchange views with the Association on each such master plan 
furnished to the Bank, and thereafter, promptly take all measures required to 
implement said plans, taking into account the views of the Association on the matter.
3.
Under Part C(6) of the Project, XUAR shall:
(a)
develop the MIS in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association and furnish the same to the Association for its review; and
(b)
thereafter introduce the MIS in each PMO, taking into account the views 
of the Association on the matter, and ensure that the MIS shall be operational (i) in 
the regional-level PMO and each of the prefectural-level PMOs not later than October 
15, 1998 and (ii) in each of the county-level PMOs not later than October 15, 1999.
I.
Training
XUAR shall carry out all training, studies and research under the Project in 
accordance with a program acceptable to the Association.  To this end, XUAR shall 
include in the plan of activities furnished to the Association each year pursuant to 
Part J.2 of this Schedule a proposed program of training activities to be implemented 
under the Project during the following year.  Each said annual program shall be 
designed, inter alia, to ensure that at least 30% of the persons participating in said 
training, including study tours, shall be women.
J.
Monitoring and Reporting; Annual Plan of Activities
1.
XUAR shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project (including the Local Beneficiaries 
Participation Action Plan and the Keping Voluntary Settlement Action Plan) and the 
achievement of its objectives.
2.
XUAR shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association the following reports:
(a)
an annual action plan, not later than October 1 in each calendar year, 
setting forth the activities (including provision of goods, and undertaking of civil 
works, training and research) which it proposes to carry out under the Project during 
the following calendar year, together with a budget and a financing plan therefor;
(b)
an annual report, not later than February 28 in each calendar year which:  
(i) integrates the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
year in respect of the Project; (ii) includes the evaluation report of the independent 
panel of experts referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule for said calendar year on 
the Project; (iii) includes the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 2 for the then current calendar year, as agreed with the Association; and (iv) 
sets out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
Page  13
the Project and the achievement of the Project’s objectives during the then current 
calendar year; and 
(c)
a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2001 which:  (i) 
integrates the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report in respect of the Project and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the Project’s 
objectives during the period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each action plan and report referred to in Section 2 of this 
Part, XUAR shall exchange views with the Association on said report, and, thereafter;  
(i) in the case of annual action plans, carry out such plans as shall have been agreed 
with the Association; and (ii) in the case of both annual and mid-term reports, take 
all measures required to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
