4-l                          '?C:            3 3 4f- 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t¢'i 1 ,1  ('( )' Y
Report No. 9437-EC
hA'(  ni, | , rA1 ['Y '1 '!.;  T v(4 ' .[  ( >Ahl' 
';hIlg'' LA'- BI~V/' .X'i'(/' ,' / !.Ati A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 20, 1991
Agricult -al Operations Division IV
Latin Ameaica and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - SUCRE (SI.)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of November 15, 1990)
US$1.00 - Ri.885.00
SI. 1.00 - US$0.00113
FISCAL YEAR
Jan.ary 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
IBRD        Internatiotal Bank for Reconstruction atid Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IDS         Intor-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamoricano de Doearrollo)
ZERAC       Ecuadorian Institute for Land Reform and Settlement
(Inatituto Ecuatoriano de Reforms Agraria y Colonizsci6n)
XICA        Inter-American Instituto of Cooperation for Agriculture
(Instituto Tnteramericano de Cooperacitn par& l Agricultura)
INCA        National Institute of Farmers' Training
(Instituto Nacional. de Capacitaci6n Camposina)
INEC        National Statistics Institute
(Instituto Nacional do EstadLsticas y Conoo)
INERHI      Ecuadorian Institui..  for Water Resources
(Instituto Ecuatoriano do Recursos VidrAulicos)
INIP        National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
JRH         Hydraulic Resources Council-Jipijapa and Paj&n Cantons
(Junta de Recursos Hidricos do Jipijapa y Paj&n)
LCB         Local Compotitive Bidding
MAC         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Miniaterio de Agricultura y Canaderia)
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MBS         Ministry of Social Welfare
(Ministerio de Bionestar Social)
MINFIN      Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr6dito P6blico)
MOP         Ministry of Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras PSblicss)
NGO         Nor.-govornmaental Organization
(Organizaci6n No-gubernamental)
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAC         Co= unity Technology Promoter
(Promotor Agropecuario Comunitario)
PCC         Community Marketing Promoter
(Promotor Comunitario an Comercializaci6n)
PCR         Project Completion Report
PIP         Applied Production Research Program
(Programs do Investigacion on Producci6n)
POA         Annual Work Program
(Programa Operativo Anual)
PRONADER    National Rural Development Program
(Programs Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
PROTECA     Agricultural Technology Transfer Program
(Programs do Desarrollo Tecnol6gico Agropecuario)
RD          Rural Development
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SSDR        Rural Development Undersecretariat - MBS
(Sub Socrotaria do Dosarrollo Rural dol MBS)
TOR         Terms of Reforonce
UCA         Area Coordinating Unit - PRONADER
UNA         Environmental Unit of SSDR/MBS
(Unidad del Medio Ambionte)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Education Fund
USAID       US Agency for International Development
UTI         Regional Technical Unit - PRONADER
WHO         World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ASA         Agricultural Services Local Office
(Agencia de Servicios Agricolas)
LC1         Central Bank of Ecuador
(Banco Central del Ecuador)
BNU         Notional Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Fomento)
ChAP        Andean Center for Popular Action - NGO
(Centro Andino de Accifn Popular)
CAY         Andean Development Corporation
(Corporeci6n Andina de Yomento)
CARS        CARE International (NGO)
CESA        Ecuadorian Center of Agricultural Services
(Central Ecuatoriana de Serviclos Agricolas)
COE.DE      National Development Planning Council
(Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo)
CONAXE      Confederation of Indian Organizations of Ecuador
(Confederacifn de Nacionalidades Indigenas del Ecuador)
CREA        Regional Comission for Reconstruction of the Asu&y, Ca-ar
and Morons Provinces
(Centro de Reconstruccifn Econ6mica del Azuay, Cafiar
y Moron-)
COTESU      Swiss Technical Cooperation Agency
(Cooparaci6n T6cnica Suiza)
DEATT       Agricultural and Livestock Extension and
Transfer of Technology Division
(Divisi6n de Extensi6n Agropecuaria y Transferancia de
Tecnologia-MAG)
DZCAD       Training and Administrative Assistance Department of SSDRIMBS
(Departamento de Capacitaci6n y Asistencia Administrativa)
DINAMA      Notional Environmental Directorat-
Direcci6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente
DINAC       National Office of Land Assessment
(Direcciln Nacional de Avalrao y Catastro)
DIuAl       National Forestry Directorate
(Direccifn Nacional Forestal)
DIIAMU      Women's National Directorate - MBS
(Direccin Nacional de la Mujer)
EI          Environmental Impact Assessment
EEAC        State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
(Empresa Nacional do Almacenamiento y Comercializacitn
de Productoc Agropecuarios)
EPPROV$T    National Entity for Basic Products
(Emprosa Nacional de Productos Vitales)
PAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
JAOICP      PAO - World Bank Cooperative Program
J8U         Brethren and Unida foundation - NGO
(Fundaci6n Brethren y Unida)
13Pp        Ecuadorian Foundation Ponulorm  Proressio
(Pondo Ecuatoriano Pqpulorum Progressio)
FODICO      Community Development Fund
(Fondo do Doearrollo Comunitario)
FON1A m     Rural Development National Fund - MBS
(Fondo Nacional do Dearrollo Rural Integral)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
COI         Government of Ecuador



STAFF APPRARSAL REPORT
RURAL DEELOFPMENT PROJECT (PROKAER)
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNARY  .... ....   .                ......              -   -
I.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy  . . . .
Major Public Institutions in the Sector  . . .                       2
Rural Sector in Ecuador  .     ..........                 .          2
Previous Bank Lending in the Ageicultural Sector                     4
Bank Lending Strategy for the Sector   a . . . .                     5
Lessons from Previous Projects   . ............                      6
II.    THE PROJECT
A.   General Concept
Project Origin                  . .  . .                        8
B.   The Prolect Area
Areas   . . . . . . .    99 .                         * *       9
Ecology and Production              ................            9
C.   Proiect Obiectives and Beneficiaries
Project Objectives  9..9                      .10
Beneficiaries   9 * * * *                                      11
D. Proiect Comionents
Irrigation and Flood Control         .                         12
Validation of Technology                                       15
Transfer of Technology                                         16
Forestry Development  . . . . . .                              17
On-Farm Investment  ..................                         18
Post-Harvest Processing and Marketing                          19
Community Development Fund (FODECO)          .                 20
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission that
visited Ecuador in October/November 1990, comprising Messrs. G. Garcia-Rivero
(Mission Leader), J. Parker, S. Goswami, M. McMahon, H. Laeyendecker, C. Plaza
(World Bank); S. Romanoff and S. Miquel (Consultants). The peer reviewer was
Mr. R. Hanan (AS4AG).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Rural Roads   .... . . . . . . . .  * . .       .           23
Water Harveeting  99999*9*9******* ...                      24
Land Tenure Regularization and Titling         .            25
Training and Communications                                 26
Institutional Development           .     . e   .           27
Environmental Impact  ....                                  28
Participation of Rural Women in the Project  . .            30
E.  Prolect Organization
Project Managemeut  . . . . . . .             . . . . .     31
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)     .       .  . .          32
Accounts and Audits   ..............               ...      33
F.  Proiect Cost and Financing
Costs .Fn   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    34
Financing      . * ....................................     34
Special Account   ........................                  35
Procurement    . . . . .  . . . . ..  . . . . . . . .. . .  35
G.  Proiect Benefits and Risks
Project Benefits              ...................           37
Economic Anal7sis              ..................           38
Rate of Return and Sensitivity                 .     .  .   39
Project Risks   . . .  . . .  .. .. .... ... .   . . .      39
III.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements   . . . . . . .     .  . . .  . . . . . . .    . . . .  40
Recommendation   ..  . .. ..  . .. . ... .. ..  . .. I           42
1.    Irrigation and Flood Control Component
2.    Rural Roads Component
3.    Environmental Component
4.    Institutional Development Component
5.    Agricultural Production and Income Under the Project
6.    Detailed Project Costs by Component
7.    Summary Project Costs and Financing Plan
8.    Project Justification and Economic Analysis
9.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP         IBRD No. 22587R



STAFF APPMAISAL REPORT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRORADER)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMfARY
Borrower:         The Republic of Ecuador
Xxsecuting
Agency:           The Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS), with participation also by
the Ministry of Agriculture atid Livestock (MAG), the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAW), the Ecuadorian
Institute for Water Resources (INERBI), the National DevelopmenL
Bank (BNF), the Ecuadorian Institute for Land Reform and
Settlement (IERAC) and local non-governmental organizations
(NGOs).
Loan Amountt      US$84.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with loan
amortization being made on an annuity basis, at ths Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Obiectives:       The project would: (a) increase and diversify output and improve
productivity in the rural sector; (b) increase employment and
incomes of small farmers and improve their standard of living;
(c) improve rural infrastructure (roads, irrigation, marketing)
and help reduce the risk of flooding; (d) promote grassroot
involvement of rural communities and groups of beneficiaries,
6iving special emphasis to rural women; (e) strengthen
beneficiaries' organizations and local NGOs; (f) promote a better
use and conservation of natrral resources; and (g) enhance
institutional capacity for planning and implementing rural
development activities.
Project
Descrintion:      The project has been conceived as the first phase of a longer-term
effort to reduce poverty and promote socio-economic development in
selected rural areas. Its main components would be to:
(a) complete and rehabilitate six irrigation schemes, two flood
control schemes and 43 existing water courses, which would
irrigate an incremental area of about 26,000 ha; (b) improve
adaptive research and extension services for validation and
transfer of technology, aimed at increasing investment by small
farmerst (c) promote forestation and better conservation of
natural resourcest (d) improve marketing facilities and foster
sall rural enterprises at the local and community level;
(a) establish a community development fund to help finance small
local projects; (f) improve approximately 700 km of existing
feeder roads and construct about 100 km of new rural roads;



- ii -
(g) construct small water reservoirs to supply water for domestic
use to about 22,000 people; (it) regularize land tenure in
approximately 110,000 ha and issue about 10,000 new land titleal
(i) establish a unit to monitor the environmental impact of the
project; and (j) impleme   a comprehensive institutional
development program (technical assistance and training) for MBS
and executing agencies, as wvll as training beneficiaries and
strengthening their organizations. A monitoring and evaluation
(MH&) process would enable early identification of implementation
problems and appropriate actior-a to solve them. Annual reviews
vould analyze the impact of the project, including delivery of
agricultural support services and the effectiveneas of the
components, and would recommend necsesary measures to be taken to
reach prcject objectives, including reallocation of funds,
institutional changes, additional studies and possible follow-up
projects.
Beneficiariess    The project would directly benefit about 23,100 families living on
sall farms covering approximately 79,000 ha through the
productive components, and about 10,000 additional rural families
through processing, marketing, water supply and community
development activities. In addition, it would indirectly benefit
the total rural population living in these areas, estimated to be
about 55,000 families (375,000 people), through general
improvements in services, communications and marketing.
Proi-ct Risks:    (a) Manapeability.  Rural development is an inherently complex
task and will always carry with it significant management risks.
The lessons of previous RD projects in Ecuador in this respect
have been taken into account in the design of the project, which
seeks to reduce the risk of ove.centralization and to focus on
components which have a clear prcductive purpose. The
implementation strategy combines a centralized definition of
objectives, management and HIE vithin the MBS with a decentralized
execution including public and private organizations (NGO's and
farmers' organizations), many of which are already operating in
the selected areas. Thiu approach would allow for much greater
flexibility than in tho past, according to the ability, experience
and motivation of individual agencies, and it would promote
Intensive participation of beneficiaries at all levels.
(b) Sustainability. The conception and preparation of this
project have bonefitted from a high degree of commitment and
competence in the MBS and in the staff of the Undersecretariat for
Rural Development (SSDR). Obviously, there is a risk that this
level of commitment may not be sustained throughout the
Implementation period. However, the best assurance of
sustainability is again the design of the project itself.
Beneficiary participation iu design and preparation has already
ensured strong political momentum at the grassroots end, to a
great extent, has immunized the project against possibly
disruptive political changes in the central administration. The
project has already touched a large number of rural communities
and has raised expectations in many more. It is very unlikely
that a new administration would see any political advantage in
reversing the momentum which has already been created.



- iii. -
Estimated Costs:11Ls                                      Igx.t&sn
Xses"^ted Coutes!l              pc«l       {~~~USSt4llllon)  _
Irrigation end Flood Control                    17.7        10.4          28.0
Validatlon of Technology                         1.1         0.4            1.5
Transfer of Technology                           5.6         0.7            6.4
Forestry Development                             2.0         0.5            2.5
On-Farm Investment                               9.2         0.9           10.1
Post-Harvest Processing and Marketing            2.3         0.5            2.8
Community Development                            5.7         2.1            7.9
Rural Roads                                     14.6        10.0           24.5
Water Harvesting                                 1.7         1.1            2.8
Land Tenure Regularization                       1.6         0.4            2.0
Environmental Component                          0.8         0.1            0.9
Training and Commincations                       2.7         0.8            3.5
Project Organization                             3.9         2.0            5.9
Technical Assistance                             4.9         2.8            7_7
Total Baseline Cost                             73.8        32.7          106.4
Physical Contingencies                           2.6         1.6            4.2
Price Contingencies                             ----         2.1 2.1
Total Project Cost                              76.3        36.3          112.7
Financing Plan:
Government of Ecuador                           25.0         0.9           25.9
IBRD                                            49.0        35.0          84.0
Local Beneficiaries                              2.4         0.4             2
Total Financing                              76.3        36.3         112.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IIRD FISCAL IAR
1992 1'    1993     1994     1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
US$ Mlllion
Anual            6.4       4.2      3.4     20.2      32.2       9.9       1.5       0.8
Cumulative       6.4      10.6     19.0     39.2      71.8      81.7      83.2      84.0
N oet of taes and duties.
l Includes retroactive financing from November 17, 1990 to loan swang and an initial deposit In
the Special Account of US$4.0 million.
Estimated Rate of Return: 152
la IBRD No. 22587R



ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PRONADER)
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
AZriculture in the National Economv
1.1         The agricultural sector is an important crntributor to Ecuador's
economy, accounting for about 142 of GDP and about 522 of the country's
foreign exchange. Agricultural production takes place in two quite different
ecological regions: the highlands and the coast. The highlands are populated
by small-scale traditional farmers who produce food crops (principally
potatoes, vegetables, temperate fruit, wheat and barley) oriented towards the
domestic market. Small, medium and large-scale commercial farms are located
in the coastal plains, which account for 802 of the area planted and where the
main agricultural products are bananas, cacao, coffee, sugarcane, rice,
livestock and shrimp.
1.2         Despite high rural-to-urban migration, the agricultural sector
still employs about half of Ecuador's economically active poDulation. If
agroindustries are included, employment provided directly and indirectly by
agriculture increases to over 602 of the active work force. With rural
incomes sou'stantially below urban levels and about 502 of underemployment in
rural areas, agricultural growth and improved productivity are essential to
expand employment and enhance the income of the poorest sectoro of the
population.
1.3         There is much scope to improve the performance of the sector.
Although Ecuador has favorable conditions for growing most crops, agricultural
land remains underexploited; only about 442 of land suitable for cropping and
about 622 of pasture land are fully used. In addition, except for bananas and
palm oil, average yields have not increased for major cvops, remaining at
levels well below those obtained by advanced farmers us_ng improved technology
and having access to adequate extension and credit.
1.4         Considerable scope also exists to boost agricultural exports.  The
comparative advantage of Ecuador's traditional export commodities--bananas,
coffee and cacao--remains strong. These crops represented about 962 of the
total value of agricultural exports in 1986/87. Shrimp production (also
mainly for export) grew at a rate of 172 p.a. in value terms between 1981-86,
and conditions for the production of rice, fresh fruit, vegetables and flowers
are also favorable. Sound economic policies that encourage agricultural
investment could stimulate production and lead to increased expotts of these
non-traditional crops.
1.5         The sector suffered during the oil boom when an overvalued
exchange rate, combined with restrictions on agricultural trade and subsidies
for domestic food, hampered the growth of both agricultural exports and
production of domestic food crops. Major flooding of the coastal region in
1983 contributed further to the decline in agricultural output. Agricultural
growth resumed in 1984, particularly in high-value exportables, as a result of
a more realistic exchange rate policy.



1.6         The present Government (wh.;ch took office in August 1988) has
initiated a number of structural reforms and economic policy adjustment.
These measures, which encourage agricultural sector growth, include a more
competitive exchange rate, partial reduction of export restrictions and a
reduction in domeatic price controls for agricultural products. Financial
sector reforms Include a phased reduction of controls on official interest
rates.
Maior Public Institutions in the Sector
1.7         The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), the Ministry for
Social Welfare (MBS), through its I al Development Undersecretariat (SSDR),
and the National Planning Development Commission (CONADE) are the main policy-
making agencies overseeing agricultural and rural development In Ecuador. A
number of semi-autonomous agencies are responsible for planning and
implementing water-related development programs. The Ecuadorian Institute for
Water Resources (INERHI), which is linked to MAG, is responsible for overall
water management, and is in charge of planning, operation and maintenance
(O&M) of irrigation and drainage systems. Regional development corporations
have been increasingly involved in water resources development by planning,
implementing, and managing a wide array of irrigation, drainage and flood
control schemes. The Ecuadorian Institute for Land Reform and Settlement
(IERAC) is in charge of land reform, colonization and land titling. The
National Development Bank (BNF) is the major source of financing for the
agricultural sector, although there are several private commercial banks and
saving and loan associations also providing credit to the sector.
Rural Sector in Ecuador
1.8         Until the early 1960s Ecuador's agricultural sector consisted
almost exclusively of large farms (latifundia). With the land reform laws
approved in 1964 and 1970, a process of land redistribution was started,
benefiting approximately 70,000 families which by 1980 had received about
600,000 ha. Nonetheless, according to the last agricultural census carried
out in 1974, 85.31 of farms had sizes of less than 20 ha but occupied only
about 18.3X of the total land. At the other extreme, farms larger than 20 ha
represented 14.72 of the total and occupied 81.42 of the land. Although there
are no recent income studies in Ecuador, estimates by UNICEF indicate that 611
of total families and 781 of rural families live below the "critical poverty"
level (defined as household income being less than the value of the basic
consumption basket estimated by the National Statistics Institute -INEC). The
existence of more than 3.5 million people living under conditions of critical
poverty in the rural sector in a country with an average per calita income
above US$1,000, is a clear signal of unequal access to productive resources.
Other indicators (nutrition, housing, employment, mortality, education, etc.)
also show that poverty is widespread in the rural sector.
1.9         The Indigenous PoDulation.  The central mountainous region of
Ecuador (Sierra) contains one of the largest concentrations of indigenous
peoples in the Americas. Numbering over 3 million people (or nearly 40
percent of the national population), the indigenous population is mainly
bilingual in Quechua and Spanish and lives in thousands of small farms and
rural villages (gomun3s) in the highland provinces along the Andes.  For
centuries, these indigenous communities were tiod through various forms of
debt peonage and sharecropping (huasinunao) to large estates (haciendas). The



-3-
1964 Agrarian Reform Law liquidated the hacienda system and distributed lands
to the indigenous cowmvnities, which are still comprised of small-holdets
(minifundistas). The indige1.aus population is cnaracterized by extreme
poverty, which has worsened over past decades as a result of population
growth, land fragmentation and soil erosion. Nevertheless, the indigenous
peasants continue to be the main producers of Ecuador's basic food crops.
According to official estimates, indigenous farmers produce 34 percent of the
country's rice, 47 percent of the barley, 52 percent of the corn, 34 percent
of the potatoes. 52 percent of the beans and 50 percent of the nation's wheat.
Zince the passaga of the Agrarian Reform Law, and especially in recent
docades, grassroots indigenous organizations have flourished in Ecuador.
These organizations include producer and consumer cooperatives, local civ'c
comittees, artisan and water user associations and regional Indian
federations. Initially, the Catholic Church played an important role in the
formation of these organizations, supported by international and local NGOs.
However, the Indians today are grouped into their own autonomous regional
federations and a national organizztion called the Confederation of Indian
Organizations of Ecuador (CONAIE). A major platform of CONAIE is the
recognition of the plural-ethnic and plural-cultural nature of Ecuador and the
participation of the indigenous organizations in the design and execution of
state-financed educational and development projects. CONAIE maintains
contracts with the Ministry of Education for bilingual-bicultural education
progrems and with NBS for rural development projects. Many of its affiliate
local and regional organizations would be participating in the implementation
of this rural development project.
1.10        Rural Development Efforts.  In 1980, the GOE established a new
institutional framework within the public administration to promote integrated
rural development. Under this scheme, the National Development Council
(CONADE) has been responsible for preparing and presenting the nitional
development plan to the President of the Republic, as well as for its
monitoring and evaluation. The Office of the President has been in charge of
policy formulation and final approval of the plans and programs. Initially, a
special secretariat was createu under the Presidency as the executive arm for
rural development, in charge of overall project coordination and management.
In January 1986, this coordinating body was transformed into the Rural
Development Undersecretariat (SSDR) of the Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS),
with the status of a financial entity able to receive, manage and channel
foreign as well as national funds assigned for the implementation of the rural
development programs. For this purpose, the SSDR is in charge of the
administration of the National Rural Development Fund (FONADRI), through which
all funds flow to the executing agencies. The SSDR continues to be
responsible for formulating the program and coordinating its implementation.
1.11        Under this institutional arrangement, nine area-specific rural
development projects have been implemented with international financial
assistance (seven of which are still being implemented). Three of these
projects were financed by the World Bank (see paras. 1.14 and 1.15)
representing about 63S of the total estimated external financing for this
purpose up to December 1990. A breakdown of this investment is presented in
the following table.



-4 
External                    External Financing (1980-90)
Area               Financiers                    US$'000       S of Total
1. Salcedo l/t            USAID                         6,700              10.4
2. Tungurahua             IBRD                          14,168             21.9
3. Eameralda.             1BRD                          11,850             18.3
4. Puerto Ila-Chone       IBRD                          14,641             22.7
5. Guamote                CAP                            3,889              6.0
6. Sur de Loja            IDB-IFAD                      11,621             18.0
7. Cafiar                 COTESU                          600               0.9
8. Peulpe                 COTESU                          306               0.5
9. Quimiag                CARE                            845               1.3
Totals                                             64,620             100.0
/' Already closed.
1.12        Although impact assessment studies are not available for these
rural development projects (a PCR for Tungurahua is currently under
preparation and there is a special study recently carried out for Puerto Ila-
Chone and Esmeraldas), the results have been reasonably good. The three
projects financed by the Bank initially faced major constraints in weak public
sector coordination and management, lack of strong leadership and commitment,
inadequate support services, insufficient participation of beneficiaries and
above all, scarce counterpart funds. However, the present administration has
brought a radically new approach to rural development that has completely
changed the performance of on-going projects. Taking the seven on-going
projects (excluding Salcedo and Tungurahua which closed before the present
administration took office), the new authorities in charge of rural
development, have managed to invest from September 1988 to December 1990 (28
months) almost 60S of the total external financing disbursed for these
projects since 1980. Important lessons (para. 1.20) have been learned in the
implementation of the projects, which have been taken into account in the
preparation of the project now proposed. Also, local staff have gained
subatantial experience during this process, which will contribute to more
efficient implementation of new operations in the sector.
PrevLous Bank Londina In the Anricultural Sector
1.13        Bank and IDA lending to Ecuador was originally concentrated in the
transport and power sectors. A first livestock development loan approved in
1967 marked the beginning of diversification in the Bank Group's lending
program away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank has made 14 loans and
creod4ts, totalling US$303.1 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural
and rural development. These include: (a) a loan and two credits for
livestock development for US$15.6 mill''U!n; (b) a loan for fisheries
(US$3.8 million); (c) a credit for the Milagro Irrigation Project for
US$4.4 million; (d) a loan for seeds improvement for US$3.0 million; (e) a
loan for technical assistance (US$2.8 million); (f) two agricultural credit
loans for a total of US$63.5 million; (g) three loans for rural development,
totalling US$51.0 million; (h) an agricultural sector adjustment loan of
US$100.0 million; and (i) a loan for US$59.0 million approved in Iecember 1990
for flood control and drainage in the Lower Guayas River Basin. Of the
agricultural projects approved since 1980, two have been completed, three are
ongoing and one is not yet effective.



1.14        Recently Completed Proiects.  Ths Tungurahua Project (Ln. 1644-
EC), closed on December 31, 1987, made significant progress during its last
year of implementation, following several difficult years caused by
inadequate institutional capacity and lack of counterpart funds. The
Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2626-EC), effective in January 1986, supported a
program of policy reforms, including the liberalization of commodity pricing
and interest rates and reduction of public sector intervention in agricultural
trade. The loan, which financed imports of agricultural inputs, was fully
disbursed but achieved only limited success in agricultural policy adjustment
before it was closed on June 30, 1989. However, since its closing, progress
has been made on several of ite more important conditions concerning interest
rates, trade restrictions and domestic price controls.
1.15        Ongoing Proiects.  There are three agricultural projects currently
under implementation: two area-specific rural development projects and one
agricultural credit project. The Puerto Ila-Chone Project (Loan 1991-EC)
approved in November 1981, was designed to improve the income and the
standards of living of about 10,000 rural families in an area of 170,000 ha
located on the western slopes of the Andes. The Esmeraldas Rural Development
Project (Loan 2044-EC), also approved in November 1981, is helping about 5,100
rural families in an area of 150,000 ha. Both projects include: improvement
of feeder roads and basic social infrastructure, land titling, rural credit
and production support services (research, extension, training and marketing).
In August 1988, after several years of implementation delays, a new team took
over the agency in charge of coordination and management (SSDR of the MBS).
In the last three years, project authorities have overcome many of the
problems inherited from previous administrations. Project implementation has
improved significantly and is now continuing at an accelerated pace. Both
projects are expected to close in 1991 fully disbursed and achieving all the
objectives originally envisaged. Finally, the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, approved in January 1987, is financing investment throughout the
sector and is strengthening the operational efficiency of the National
Development Bank (BNF), as well as other participating financial
intermediaries. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Bank Lendina Stratefv for the Sector
1.16        The priority needs of the agricultural sector in Ecuador are:
(a) continued liberalization of trade and marketing to minimize distortions
and to increase the efficiency of resource allocation within the sector and
between agriculture and other sectors of the economy; (b) investment in
infrastructure, especially irrigation, flood control, marketing and rural
roads; (c) generation and transfer cf improved technology: avid
(d) conservation and management of natural resources. Within these broad
priority areas, the needs of the commercial farm sector would be best served
through the opening up of trade and the development of more competitive
financial markets. In the small farm sector, however, more direct
interventions are needed, where poverty alleviation is the main ob4ective and
an increased participation of small farmers' organizations is essential to
promote sustainability in the long run.
1.17        All the priorities outlined above are being addressed through
operations either under execution (para. 1.15) or under preparation. The main
trade issues are being incorjorated into a proposed trade policy loan; and the
activities of the state marketing companies, the restructuring of BNF and the



-6-
maintenance of a general agreement on Interest rates are being monitored
through the Second Agricultural Credit Project. The Lower Guayas Flood
Control Project (Loan 3276-EC), approved by the Board on December 6, 1990, is
the first phase of the long-term development of a productive agricultural
region heavily populated with small producers. In addition, discussions with
GOE are proceeding regarding a possible Irrigation sector operation aimed at
establishing a more rational system for coordinating, financing and
implementing irrigation investments throughout the country. This operation
would place strong emphasis on institutional strengthening, evaluation
criteria and cost recovery.
1.18        Other possible initiatives with an Impact on the sector are
contained in a proposed environmental project now under preparation which
would establish a stronger institutional framework for environmental
protection and resource management. Of particular importance for agriculture,
this project would provide a basis to develop programs for watershed
management, forest protection and soil conservation. In the area of
agricultural technology, the Bank has not hitherto played a major role in
Ecuador, though this is clearly a priority area. The IDB is currently active
in this area through its National Program for Agricultural Technology Transfer
(PROTECA), but this project has been slow to produce an impact and a new
approach may now be needed. Discussions on ways of involving IBRD in the
expansion and improvement of agricultural services (plant protection, animal
health, small farmer extension, applied research) in conjunction with other
agencies, are planned in the next phase of the Bank's dialogue on sector
issues, and will be the subject of a sector study to be carried out in FY92.
1.19        The Rural Development Project (PRONADER - Phase I) proposed here
is consistent with the priorities outlined above. This project would be the
first stage of a long-term National Rural Development Program, formulated by
GOE to attack rural poverty in key regions of the country, and would represent
more than two thirds of total public investment in rural development in the
next five years. The substantial improvements in implementation of existing
rural development projects (para. 1.15) underscores GOE's commitment to the
program. By providing access to water for irrigation, combined with
validation and transfer of technology, improved marketing and processing
facilities, as well as better communications and an active participation of
farmers' organizations, the project would create the necessary conditions for
an increase in production and standard of living of small farmers located in
areas with relatively high productive potential.
Lessons from Previous Pro1ects
1.20        As discussed above in para 1.12, Ecuador has in the past suffered
from poor performance in rural developing projects. The design of this
project has attempted to draw on the experience of these earlier projects and
to address the main problems which have affected them (lack of commitment,
poor funding and management, and low beneficiary participation in design and
implementation). The main differences with previous projects are implicit in
the new approach to rural development in MBS, which can be summarized as
follows:
(a)   the project proceeds from a very strong political commitment by
the GOE to rural development and poverty alleviation, which is
underscored by the significant improvement In the performance of



- 7 -
ongoing RD projects financed by the Bank and other agencies in
Ecuadors
(b)   the selection of the 12 project areas was based on a comprehensive
study carried out by MBS involving a total of 42 areas.  This
study considered socio-economic indicators, to assess the level of
poverty, as well as other factors taking into account the
potential of the areas and the level of organization of possible
beneficiaries. This was a long and well-publicized exercise,
where the participation of the potential beneficiaries
demonstrated their interest and motivation for the project. The
activities to be implemented in the areas finally selected
constitute a pilot exercise which, if successful, would be
implemented by GOE on a larger scale in future;
(c)   the new management approach is a significant departure from the
monolithic structure of the past. It combines a centralized
definition of objectives and strong coordination and monitoring in
MBS, with decentralized execution, including specialized public
and private organizations (NGOs and farmers' organizations). This
allows for a great deal of flexibility in project e"ecution, in
accordance with the ability, experience and motivation of
individual agencies, and explores the synergism of mixed
public/private implementation arrangements;
(d)   the approach adopted by the new administration for project
preparation has promoted active involvement of the beneficiaries
themselves, through identification of problems and solutions that
have been incorporated in the project design. In its
implementation, the project would also give heavy emphasis to
participation of beneficiaries' organizations and NGOs in
decision-making at all levels, with the objective of strengthening
these organizations and improving the sustainability of the
project;
(e)   the project's goals are set at levels commensurate with the
perceived capacity of executing agencies following an exhaustive
review of each. Increasing institutional capacity on a broad
front therefore is a prime objective and for this purpose
substantial training and technical assistance would be provided
through a carefully prepared set of institutional development
activities;
(f)   the proposed project has a very strong productive approach,
through components that would have an impact on productivity,
overall agricultural output and level of farm income, leavin;
aside other social sector components (e.g. food supply, shelter,
education and health);
(g)   the project would be closely monitored by its own M&E unit and
flexibility in objectives and implementation would be maintained
through annual performance reviews with the Bank, in addition of
the normal mid-term reviewS and



- 8 -
(i)   the proposed financing plan envisages a Bank share of 75Z of
project costs, on the grounds that all project beneficiaries would
be small farmers with incomes below the poverty level. This level
of cost sharing significantly diminishes the project's dependence
on counterpart funds.
II. THE PROJECT
A. GENERAL CCNCEPT
Proiect Orifin
2.1         The present administration, which came to office in August 1988,
assigned high priority to rural development as one of the key elements of its
strategy to reduce unemployment and poverty in the country, to decrease
inequalities between different regions and to slow down migration to urban
centers. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Welfare, whose
Minister is also Chairman of the Social Front (Frente Social), a comprehensive
series of studies was carried out to identify more clearly the
characteristics and location of rural poverty. These studies were carried out
by SSDR, with technical assistance from the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA) during 1988 and 1989. The starting point
was a detailed statistical analysis of all socio-economic indicators available
at the level of cantons (an administrative subdivision of a province). The
type of indicators considered included income, nutrition, mortality,
employment, land tenure and land distribution by farm size, education and
access to social and production support services. This led to a
classification o2 all cantons and to the mapping of poverty in the country.
In a second stage, other variables were incorporated (inter alia: level of
organization of small farmers, actual and potential land use, presence of
governmental and non-governmental organizations, and communications).  As a
result of this exercise, 42 rural areas of the country were classified in
three groups, in terms of their priority for poverty alleviation and socio-
economic development.
2.2         The National Development Plan 1989/92 includes rural development
as one of the key elements of the development strategy for the country.
Emphasis is given to the establishment of more efficient mechanisms for inter-
institutional coordination, promotion of participation of smallholders'
organizations and NGOs, and investment in economically sound and sustainable
productive activities. The Plan includes, in addition to the seven on-going
projects, the start of a long-term National Rural Development Program and
allocates a total of about US$70 million for the period (external and local
financing).
2.3         SSDR of the MBS assumed responsibility for identification and
preparation of the National Rural Development Program and started working in
late 1988 with technical assistance from IICA. Following a formal request
from the Government, the Bank sent an identification mission in March 1989.
The proposed project includes twelve of the 42 areas studied by MBS, defined
as those considered to have maximum priority for rural development. The World
Bank/FAO Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) also provided guidance and assistance to
GOE with two missions in July/August and November 1989 to help prepare a
complete project proposal (April 1990). A pre-appraisal mission visited the



- 9 -
country in May/June 1990 and the project was appraised in October/November
1990.
B. THE PROJECT AREA
Areaos
2.4         The proposed project would be implemented in the twelve areas
selected in agreement with GOE. Selection was based on their concentration of
small farmers, their high relative level of poverty, as well as their
potential to benefit from the project and sustain economically viable
productive activities (based on the quality of the soils, the availability of
technical proposals and the level of farmers' organization). These twelve
areas lie within four different agroecological regions of the country with a
total area of 630,000 ha and an estimated rural population of 375,000 people,
as shown in the following table:
Agroecological
Region                               Areas
1. Sierra (Highlands)          (a) Espejo-Mira
(203,000 ha)                (b) Sierra Norte de Pichincha
(c) Tanicuchi-Toacaso-Pastocalle (TTP)
(d) Guano
2. Estribaciones (Slopes)      (a) Pangua
(93,000 ha)                 (b) Facundo Vela
(c) Santa Isabel
3. Costa Hdmeda (Humid Coast)  (a) Tres Postes
(154,000 ha)                (b) San Pedro de Daule
(c) Playas de Higuer6n
4. Litoral Central (Dry Coast)  (a) Jipijapa
(180,000 ha)                (b) PajAn
Ecolorv and Production
2.5         Sierra (Highlands).  The areas of the project within the highlands
are located at altitudes that vary between 2,000 and 3,500 meters above sea
level (m.a.s.l.). The average temperature varies between 12 and 23°C.
Rainfall varies from 300 to 1,200 mm and has a bimodal pattern with peaks in
Februa'y-April and September-November. In the intervening months there are
moisture deficits. Soils are mostly of volcanic origin and vary widely in
physical and chemical characteristics throughout the region. In some cases,
soils are deep and fertile, while at the other extreme, they are highly eroded
and shallow. In some parts of the project area, the productive potential of
the soil is limited by steep slopes. The main crops grown under rainfed
conditions are, in descending order of importance, potatoes, barley, white
maize, faba beans and wheat. Although there are no official yield data for
the project area, unofficial estimates indicate that yields are very low by
world or Latin American standards and are typical of subsistence agriculture.



- 10 -
There are some irrigated areas in the region, either with small schemes or
using old *water courses (oceauias), some claimed to be centuries old. In
these irrigated areas of the highlands, crops can be grown year-round and
there has been diversification into higher-value crops such as vegetables
(cabbage and onions), fruits (peaches and avocado), flowers and alfalfa.
Cropping intensities of 1.4 can easily be achieved.
2.6         Estribaciones (Slopes).  This region is located on the western
flank of the Cordillera de lo Andes and varies greatly, climatically,
depending on the altitude. In the lower parts, it is hot and humid while in
the higher parts it is cool and vet. Mean temperatures range from 17°C to
20°C and rainfall ranges from 480 to 2,400 mm., with a moisture deficit from
July to October. The main limiting factor is topography, since steep slopes
subject to erosion dominate the area. In the lower and flatter part of the
region, where the project would be located, the two main c-ops are sugarcane,
for "Danela" production, and cacao. Both crops are poorl managed
agronomically and their average yields are 3,160 kg/ha and 255 kg/ha
respectively.
2.7         Costa HOmeda (Humid Coast).  This region is located in the lower
part of the basin of the River Guayas. It is an arep. with flat topography
that is flooded during the rainy season from December to March. Crops are
sown in the receding waters at the end of the rainy season. Most areas are
below 50 m.a.s.l. with average temperatures of 25°C. Soils are alluvial and
heavy, the main limiting factors being flooding and poor drainage. The
principal crop is rice, which is sown at the end of the rainy season and has
an average yield of 2,130 kg/ha. Under normal flooding conditions, only one
crop per year is possible. Under flood control conditions, two crops can be
grown. In the higher areas, such as Plavas de Higuer6n, cacao and flint maize
are also grown.
2.8         Litoral Central (Dry Coast).  Most of the project area in this
region lies within the dry tropics where moisture is the main limiting factor.
The main crop is flint maize which has an average yield of 1,550 kg/ha. There
are also about 200 ha of yucca (cassava) with yields of about 9,000 kg/ha. In
the higher areas, where moisture is not limiting, coffee is the principal
crop. Yields of coffee are low, estimated at an about 180 kg/ha. However,
since this area is ecologically unstable, due to the steep slopes that
predominate, coffee plays a major role in providing stability to the area.
C. PROJECT OBJECT.YES AND BENEFICIARIES
Prosect Objectives
2.9         The overall objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) increase and diversify output and improve productivity; (b) increase
employment and incomes of small farmers by introducing higher-value crops,
promoting storage/processing at the community level and rationalizing
marketingt (c) rehabilitate and improve rural infrastructure -mainly feeder
roads, irrigation schemes and marketing facilitieso and help reduce the risk
of flooding and the attendant losses of property and output; (d) promote
grassroot involvement of rural communities and groups of beneficiaries (giving
special emphasis to rural women) in the identification of investment needs, as



- 11 -
wvll as in implementation and maintenance of smll-scale rural enterprises
through the operation of a community development funds (a) promote a better
use and conservation of natural resources, protecting small watershed areas;
(f) enhance the capacity of MBS and other executing agencies for project
coordination and management and help create a long-term institutional
framework for rural development; and (g) strengthen farmars' organizations and
NGO'. and increase their level of participation in designing, implementing and
managing rural development activities.
Baneficiarieo
2.10        The proposed project would directly benefit through the productive
components about 23,100 rural families (116,000 people), occupying an area of
about 79,000 ha. Approximately 53,000 ha would be under rainfed agriculture
and about 26,000 ha would be devoted to irrigated crops (18,000 ha from new
irrigation schemes and 8,000 ha with access to improved water courses). These
direct beneficiaries, constituting the main target group of the project, are
all small farmers (up to 20 ha of land) working on land for which they have
unquestionable rights, and whose main source of income is the agricultural
production they obtain from their own family labor. Approximately one half of
the total beneficiaries are women, but also a significant percentage of these
23,100 rural families are headed by women. The breakdown of these direct
beneficiaries by area is shown in the following table:
Humid     Dry
Highlands   Slopes    Coast    Coast     TOTAL
Rainfed Areas
Beneficiaries (families)           4,331    1,500    2,272    3,451      11,554
Area (ha)                         14,676   10,510   11,130   17,000    53,316
Irritated Areas
Beneficiaries (families)           8,462    2,154      940       ---    11,558
Area (ha)                         13,799    3,310    8,850       ---    25,959
TOTAL
Beneficiaries (families)          12,793    3,654    3,212    3,451    23,112
Area (ha)                         28,475   13,820   19,980   17,000    79,275
2.11        In addition to these direct beneficiaries, the project would also
benefit about 10,000 rural families through the community development
activities, post-harvest processing and marketing, forestry development, water
harvesting and strengthening of grassroot organizations. Finally, the feeder
roads component would benefit the entire rural population in these areas,
estimated to be 55,000 families or 375,000 people.



- 12 -
D. PROJECT COMPONENTS
Irrigation and Flood Control
2.12        The project would finance civil works, equipment (pipes, gates,
pumps, sprinklers, etc.), engineering design and supervision, and operation
and maintenance (O&M) for different types of small irrigation and flood
control schemes. They are grouped in three sub-components:
(a)   Completion of six existing irrigation schemest five in the
highlands, San Isidro (area of Espejo-Mira), Tabacundo and
Cangahua, (area of Sierra Norte de Pichincha), Alumis -Canal Bajo
and Alumis -Canal del Norte (area of TTP); and one in the
foothills, Santa Isabel (area of Santa Isabel) (base costs
US$14.7 million);
(b)   Construction of two flood control and drainage schemes (base costs
US$11.9 million) in a traditional rice-growing area of the Guayas
river flood plain, La Herradura (area of Tres Postes) and Pula-
Jiaual (area of San Pedro de Daule); and
(c)   Improvement and extension of 43 existing water courses (aceauias),
most of which date back to colonial times. Of these, 28 are in
the mountains (12 in Espejo-Mira; 11 in Sierra Norte de Pichincha;
and 5 in Toacaso-Tanicuchi-Pastocalle) and 15 are located in the
foothilla near Santa Isabel (base costs US$1.5 million).
2.13        In the first subcomponent, civil works have at some time been
started in all six irrigation schemes, but have never been completed because
of scarce budgetary resources. Many headworks exist and also substantial
sections of main canals and tunnels. Tile project would complete the civil
works (water intakes, canals, tunnels, etc.) and the water distribution system
(secondary and tertiary underground pipes) to convey the water to hydrants
located inside the irrigated areas. The project would also provide the
necessary irrigation equipment (water hoses, pumps and micro-sprinklers) to
allow each beneficiary to have up to 5 ha under irrigation. In almost all
cases, irrigation by sprinklers is possible with natural gravity pressure. In
Tabacundo, complementary pumping would be required in a small part of the
area. Each of these schemes would include one demonstration tank for trout
farming, since trout fingerlings are available and this activity could become
an important source of low-cost animal protein. Irrigation water would permit
a higher production potential by allowing farmers to switch from the
traditional long-duration crops (about nine months) to a cropping pattern with
two crops per year and to introduce higher-value crops. The total increase in
net irrigated area would be approximately 9,000 ha.
2.14        In the two flood control schemes in the humid coastal plain (La
Herradura and Pula-Jiaual), a rudimentary drainage infrastructure exists with
sections of small embankments. In these areas, the project would finance
civil works consisting of embankments and river dikes, resulting in the
creation of polders, as well as completion of the drainage network. Main
water pumps to help drainage during periods of continuous high water level
would also be provided by the project. The main objective would be
protection against floods from the tidal rivers, guaranteeing at least one
rice crop in the district during the principal rice growing season from



- 13 -
January to May. To the extent that fresh water is still available in the
rivers at the tail end of the wet season, water would be pumped into the dense
drainage network and the dewatering sluices would be opened during high tide
to supply water inside the embanked districts. The responsibility for
providing secondary low lift pumping from the drains would be left to the
farmers, many of whom already have small low lift pumps. The available water
and storage capacity would be insufficient to supply a second crop in the
entire district. Therefore, a rotation of three rice harvests every two years
is foreseen for each farmer, over a cropping area of about 8,850 ha.
2.15        The implementation of the two previous sub-components would be the
responsibility of MBS through SSDR, assisted by international and local
consultants financed by the technical assistance component. The civil works
would be built by contractors hired by MBS based on tender documents accepted
by the Bank. The Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidr&ulicos (INERHI),
which is the national irrigation authority, would provide technical support to
MBS in preparing technical aspects of tender documents and supervising the
construction. INERHI would also be in charge of operation and maintenance
(O&M) of most schemes during the early years of operation, until the water
users' associations were able to assume responsibility themselves. The only
two exceptions would be in an area (Sierra Norte de Pichincha) where well-
established and capable NGOs have already been working for a long time,
organizing and providing technical assistance to farmers. The NGOs that would
be in charge of O&M, until the farmers are able to take this responsibility,
are: (a) Fundaci6n Brethren y Unida (FBU) in the Tabacundo scheme; and
(b) Centro Andino de Acci6n Popular (CAAP) for the Cangahua irrigation scheme.
2.16        Final engineering designs for civil works are well advanced.   All
engineering designs and tender documents for the first two years of the
project are expected to be completed and presented to the Bank in July/August
1991. In addition, to avoid unnecessary delays in the implementation of the
Cangahua Scheme, assurances were obtained at negotiations that construction of
the main tunnel would start before August 1, 1993. This component includes
financing of some complementary engineering studies and engineering
supervision of civil works to be carried out by consultants.
2.17        The project would include training of beneficiaries (financed
under the training component) to help them assume increasing responsibility in
the administration of their districts, through the establishment of water user
associations, that would eventually assume full responsibility. Establishment
of the water user associations and accounting systems, which would determine
the actual costs of the individual district's O&M (and hence of the tariffs
required to cover them), would be one of the two main tasks of the irrigation
training unit under the project and this would include technical assistance
from consultants. The project would also provide training to the training
unit's officers and to leader farmers through an agreement with a sister
organization, the Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuaci6n de Tierras (HIMAT). HIMAT has successfully transferred the
management of the first three (of a series of ten) public irrigation districts
to water users associations in Colombia. For this purpose, HIMAT has
developed a long-range training program for farmers and water user
associations and the intention is to copy the Colombian experience in Ecuador.



- 14 -
2.18        To ensure an early start with the training program and the
establishment of water user as*--lations and their accounting systems, an
agreement was reached with GOB at negotiations for the following dated
covenants: (a) establishment of the irrigation training unit and participation
of its first group of three members in the HDAT training program by
December 31, 19911 (b) legal establishment of all eight water user
associations by August I, 1993; and (c) establishment of an accounting system
for O&M in each of the eight districts by August 1, 1993 to determine actual
costs and water charges to recover O&M costs.
2.19        In the third subcomponent, 43 water coursos have been identified
for improvement under the project. The project would finance civil works
(construction materials, labor, etc.) and engineering supervision for these
improvements, which would consist of: constructing permanent intakes and
derivation structures with sediment traps; repair of damaged canals and
bifurcation structures; lining of canals over short distances in critical
areas5 and constructing cross drains. It is estimated that at present only
950 ha of the potential area of 8,080 ha is irrigated. Thus, the incremental
area to be irrigated is 7,130 ha. As in the case of the eight previous
schemes, the improvement of the 43 existing water courses would be under the
responsibility of MBS, with technical assistance from the provincial INERHI
offices. Most of the labor-intensive repair would be carried out by the
beneficiaries themselves under contracts signed between MBS and the farmers'
organizations or NGOs, and the more complex work would be hired by MBS with
local contractors. These water courses have been operating for a long time
under the responsibility of existing water users' associations with assistance
from INERHI. They would receive additional assistance under the project,
including accounting and management, and would be fully responsible for O&M of
the facilities. 0&M costs of these aceauias would not be eligible for
financing under the project.
2.20        Cost Recovery.  Agreement was reached with the Borrower during
negotiations on a system to bill and collect increasing percentages of the
actual O&M costs through water tariffs, which would be in operation not leter
than August 1, 1993, and subsequently begin complying with covenanted cost
recovery targets not later than January 1, 1995.   This would follow
procedures similar to those established for the Colombian Second Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, Loan 2667-CO. The proposed loan would finance these
O&M costs on a declining basis for the irrigation and flood control schemes
included in the first two subcomponents (from 1OOZ in year 1 to 251 in year
7), which would be compensated by an increasing level of water tariffs paid by
the users. The GOE and the Bank would discuss and agree on actions to be
taken regarding any particular scheme not in compliance with this system. It
was also agreed during negotiations that if a particular scheme continues to
be in default and no action is taken or agreed to be taken in this regard, the
Bank may suspend disbursements for that particular scheme. Starting January
1, 1998 all schemes should fix their own level of water charges to cover their
entire operation and maintenance costs and no further financing would be
eliglble under the project.
a



- 15 -
Validation of Technoloaw
2.21        The main objective of this component (bass coat US$1.5 million)
would be to validate technology developed by the reaearch stations of the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP). This validation would be
done in farmers' fields by INIAP's Research in Production Program through its
field validation units (PIPs). The PIP is the link between the research
station and the extension service and its role would be strengthened within
this project. The basis of the PIP's work would be identification of problems
at the farm level and of available technology at the experimental stations,
and validation of this technology under local conditions. The project would
establish and help operate tsn PIPa, four in the highlands and two in each of
the other regions (Slopes, Humid Coast and Dry Coast). The project would
finance vehicles, equipment, salaries and per diem for local personnel for
these 10 PIPs. As part of the operation of these PIPs, the project would also
finance 13 diagnostic surveys, about 725 agricultural trials and a training
program for extensionists.  At negotiations, the GOE presented to the Bank a
draft plan of action and a timetable for the establishment of these PIP units,
agreed between MBS and INIAP. Consultant services, consisting mainly of a
long-term foreign advisor (for 3 years) and two local consultants (for 5
years) would be provided to INIAP, financed under the technical assistance
component.
2.22        The work prognam of each PIP would be based on the results of 13
surveys carried out in conjunction with the extension service to identify the
problems and provide feedback to the research stations. In accordance with
the priorities identified, about 725 trials would be carried out by the PIPs
in the four regions. There would be three different types of trials:
(a) exploratorv, to identify the limiting factors; (b) multifactorial, to help
prioritize the factors and measure their interactions; and (c) verification
trials, to verify experimental results. In all cases the involvement of
extension staff and farmers would be promoted as the initial stage of the
technological transfer process. Formal training of all extensionists would be
the other important activity of these PIPs based on technologies already
validated, which would constitute another link between research and extension.
A proposed distribution of these 725 trials agreed during appraisal is
presented in the following table:
Project Region/PIP              Munber of Trials
SIERRA (HIGHLANDS)
- Espejo-Nfra                        90
- Sferra Norte de Pichincha          105
- TTP                                100
- Guano                               70
ESTRIBACIONg (SLOPES)
- Santa I  lbo                       35
- Pangua/Facundo Veta                70
(lUNID COAST)
- Rice/maize                         90
- Cacao                               35
k1ML.C[NIRAL (DRY COAST)
-Coffe                               35
- Mafze/Yucca                        95
TOTAL                                725



- 16 -
Transfer of Tebnoloftw
2.23        Within the proposed project, transfer of technology is defined as
the activity by which the recommendations of research (after being validated
by the PIP in farmers' fields) would be passed on to farmers as an integral
part of the production system. The main objective would be to promote
incremental production and net benefits through improving crop
diversification, cropping patterns, input use and management. Because of the
poor coverage and coordination between the agencies providi.ig extension
services in Ecuador, the service to be provided under PRONADER would be
located within the newly created Agricultural and Livestock Extension and
Technology Transfer Division (DEATT) of MAG. The advantages of this approach
would be that:
(a) the methodology proposed by PRONADER (which has been very successful
in other countries) emphasizes strong research-extension linkages
and can serve as the basis for a new working methodology within MAG;
and
(b) the project would assist this Division of MAG to become an
institutionalized extension service at the national level.
2.24        The project would finance: (a) investments, including vehicles,
extension equipment and tools, training of staff and implementatioll of
demonstration plots; and (b) recurrent costs, including salaries and Per diem
for local personnel, and O&h of vehicles (base costs US$6.4 million). DEATT
personnel would operate using the existing physical facilities either of MAG's
agricultural services offices (ASAs) or MBS's local coordinating units (UCAs).
About 95 extension agents would be required, each assisting 150-240
beneficiaries. These extension agents would be assisted by community
technology promoters (PAC). The PACs would be selected in coordination with
the local community, based on his or her receptivity to technology,
leadership, level of formal training and experience. Each extension agent
would work initially with five PACs, increasing to eight later in the project.
About 700 PACs would be required once all 23,000 beneficiaries were
incorporated by year 5 of the project. In addition to participating in the
validation trials to be carried out by the PIPs, the extensionists and PACs
would establish demonstration plots on beneficiaries' farms and would
implement small technology transfer projects financed by the community
development fund (PODECO). MBS and MAG have aiready agreed on a detailed work
plan, to establish and operate this extension service in the 12 areas which
was reviewed by the Bank during negotiations.
2.25        The technology transfer and adoption process would have several
stages. First, some farmers would have the opportunity of learning about the
existence of the new technology through visits (training events and field
days) to the local PIP units, as well as to the demonstration plots
established in the area. Second, once a group of farmers was willing to try
the new technology they would prepare a simple project, assisted by the
extensionist and the PAC, to be financed by the community development fund
(FODECO). The farmers would contribute with land and their family labor,
while PODECO would finance all other costs.  In the implementation of this
project, closely supervised by the extensionist and the PAC, they would have
the chance of "learning-by-doing" and experience the results in their c-on
plots. Finally, with the benefits obtained from the output, the same 4roup



- 17 -
would be able to expand the application of the technology the following
croppir.g season. This methodology, already tested successfally under some of
the on-going RD projects, would be an essential instrument supporting
technological change and improvements in productivity and farm incomes.
2.26        At the local level the coordinating entity of the MBS would be
the Area Coordination Unit (UCA) which would be responsible for the
coordination of the activities through the local coordination committee which
would include representatives of SSDh and all executing agencies in the area,
as well as representatives of the farmers' organizations. For the
subcomponents of Validation and Transfer of Technology, a Production Committee
(PC) consisting of extension agents, PIP professionalo, and community
representatives, and presided over by the chief of the UCA, would be
responsible for the programming of activities based on the survey carried out
in the area and the availability of technology.  This committee would also be
responsible for the selection of the beneficiary communities, the activities
to be implemented in each one and the identification of the training needs of
both extension agents and farmerJ..  At the re!ional level, MBS would have the
Regional Technical Unit (UTR) to coordinate and provide support within each
region. Inside the UTR there would be an advisory body made up of specialists
in crop and animal production, who would be continuously assisting the local
staff on validation and transfer of technology. A long-term foreign adviser
(for 3 years) and two local consultants would be financed through the
technical assistance component to support the successful establishment of
DEATT and provision of extension z'ervices.
Forest8r Develonment
2.27        The objective of the forestry component would be: (a) to raise
rural income by the sale of forest products and by providing employment in the
plantation and management of forests; (b) to provide wood for basic
necessities of the poorest rural communities (construction and firewood); and
(c) to improve conservation of the natural resource base of the project areas.
ThiG componant would establish about 11,300 ha. of plantations, of which 7,200
ha. would be used for productive purposes; 1,200 ha. used as demonstration
plots; 2,900 ha. used for protective purposes against water and wind erosion.
In addition, about 1,100 km would be row plantations which could be used for
both productive and protective purposes along roads, dikes and irrigation
canals.
2.28        The productive plantations, whether in forests or rows, would be
exploited commercially for construction, furniture, firewood or logs, and they
would be established on land owned by the community. The demonstration plots
would be used to demonstrate different systems of planting and management.
The protective plantings would be used to preserve the natural resources of
soil and water by preventing the degradation of watersheds. Row planting
would be employed mainly as windbreaks and would be mostly established along
the boundary lines of properties.
2.29         The forests used for productive purposes would be planted by
private reforestation companies and farm organizations which would be selected
and assisted by the foresters. The project would finance the cost of
planting, replanting and maintenance during the first two years of each
forest. The beneficiaries would be responsible for maintenance after that.
The benefits from the exploitation of the forest would be divided between the



- 18 -
State and the beneficiary communities in accordance with the Forestry Law (Ley
Forestal) of Ecuador. The planting done for protection and demonstration
purposes would be implemented directly by the farmers and totally financed by
the project.
2.30        The items to be financed by the project include: forestry
equipment, seedlings, plants and materials for planting (base cost US$2.2
million). The forestry component would also finance a small research
subcomponent (base cost US$278,000).  This would be justified on the basis
that very little basic information exists within the country on the problems
of forestry, especially with regard to native tree species and the management
of existing pine and eucalyptus plantations. The research program would be
divided into two sections, one which would cover the area of the Sierra and
Estribaciones and the other which would cover the Litoral Central and the
Costa H6meda.
2.31    The SSDR of the MBS would be responsible for this component.
Implementation would be coordinated at the local level by five foresters
located in the Regional Technical Units of the project (one acting as
coordinator). They would identify the areas to be planted and the
beneficiaries. They would work in coordination with the extension service and
activities at the local level would be approved by the production committee.
The plants for the project would be provided under contract by the nurseries
of DINAP and NGOe in the project area. These nurseries have already been
identified and have adequate capacity to supply the project. The research
activities would be carried out by technical universities located in the
regions, under contract with MBS, that have adequate experience and personnel
for this task.
On-Parm Investment
2.32        In order to benefit from the investments in irrigation, flood
control, better communications and marketirg and, above all, from the
possibility of adopting new technology, beneficiaries wouald be expected to
carry out substantial additional investmen%t  on their farms. This would
includes (a) purchase of farm machinery and +uipment (for planting, cropping,
threshing); (b) establishment or rehabilitaticon of permanent or semi-permanent
crops (cacao, coffee, fruit trees); (c) purch se of animals, both for draft
power and for production; (d) construction o; farm infrastructure, fences,
small facilities for storage and drying; and te) incremental working capital
to finance the higher cost of inputs for improved production, drying/storage,
processing and marketing. These investments have been estimated at
approximately US$10.0 million during the implementation period anu would be
financed by formal credit, either through official banks (mainly BNF) or
private banks and savings and loans associations. The beneficiaries would
cofinance an average 20S percent of total investment from thei.r own funds.
These on-farm investments would not be eligible for financing under the Bank
loan.
2.33        At present, the proportion of small farmer& receiving formal
credit in the areas of the proposed project is very small. In general,
existing credit lines are managed conservatively and the credit regulations
demand a real security (normally a mortgage or other secure collateral) that
small farmers are not able to provide. Furthermore, these farmers are



- 19 -
normally located in remote and sometimes isolated areas where intermediation
costs are very high.
2.34        For these reasons, GOE proposed to expand credit availability for
mall farmers participating in rural development projects. In the proposed
project, agreement has been reached with CAE (MBS, HINFIN and BNF), and
assurances were obtained at negotiations, that there would be specific
budgetary allocations of counterpart funds to increase the availability of
medium and short-term credit for small farmers. These funds would be
disbursed from the budget by the Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) to the National
Rural Development Fund (FONADRI) administered by MBS. Funds would be
channeled from FORADRI to BNP according to the annual work plans prepared by
SSDR (POAs). BNP would also work as a second-tier institution to channel
funds to private banks interested ia participating in the scheme (as it is
doing at present in two existing global credit lines). BN! agreed to
establish a coordinating and monitoring unit for these activities (as part of
the institutional reorganization supported by Loan 2752-EC). Credit
procedures and requirements would take into consideration the objectives of
the PRONADER project and the type of beneficiaries involved. Interest rates
in all cases would bo the same as for all official lines of credit in the
sector. These rates are subject to the conditions included in the general
commitment to the Bank, whereby they will reach free-market levels by
June 1992.
Post-Harvest Processint and Markotina
2.35        The objectives of the post-harvast and marketing component would
be: (a) to ensure that the increased production generated by the project
reaches the market; (b) to increase the value of crops by improving quality,
adding basic processing, reducing wastage, decreasing transaction costs, and
improving timing of marketing to take advantage of price seasonality; (c) to
increase beneficiaries' incomes through their participation in community or
cooperative enterprises (wages earned in processing and distribution of
profits); (d) to increase the participation of women in the benefits of
agricultural development; and (e) to test, on a pilot basis, the economic,
technical and entrepreneurial feasibility of medium-scale, farmer-owned
companies to produce non-traditional crops having high market value.
2.36        The proposed project would help finance civil works, machinery
and equipment, engineering design and supervision and consulting services for
the following subcomponents:
(a) Completion, rehabilitation and improvement of about twelve regional
processing and marketing centers that include mainly drying and
storage facilities, warehouse, processing machinery (according to
the products of the area) and community stores. These facilities
would be the property of MBS, which would assign their use to
municipalities, farmer organizations, or NGOs under terms that
ensure their continuing service to the beneficiaries of the project
under the legal mechanism of "comodato". Technical assistance for
management and operation would be provided by MBS during project
implementation. The legal operarting agreement to be signed between
HIS and the organization in charge of operating the facility must
contain specific provisions to ensure adequate management and full
recovery of operation and maintenance costs. Full feasibility



- 20 -
studies would have to be presented and accepted by the Bank for each
one of these plants before disbursements were authorized (base costs
US$826,000).
(b) ImprovemeAt of five existing town -arkets and fairs in the highland
region, by adding a warehouse, a cammunity store, and expanding the
open marketing area. Normally the market place is owned and managed
by the manicipalities. MBS would have the option of either leasing
or transferring the property of the new facilities, if an agreement
is reached on its operation and management with the municipality.
Other possibilities are farmers' cooperatives and local NGOs. Full
feasibility studies including market, institutional and economic
aspects would be approved by the Bank before disbursements under
this subcomponent were made (base costs US$732,000).
(c) The project would also finance six experimental enterprises to test
crop processing technologies and opportunities that may be models
for future development. The technologies chosen would meet the
following criteria: (i) high economic return for the small farmers;
(ii) possibility of replication combining local resources and labor
with commercial credit; (iii) feasible technology proven elsewhere
but not yet implemented with small-scale farmers in the project
areas. MBS, with contracted technical assistance and with
participation of farmers' organizations, cooperatives or NGOs, would
design the pilot projects. The regional and area offices of the
project (UTRs and UCAS) would continue to provide technical
assistance during implementation. These enterprises would be the
property of MBS, but managed by a local organization under lease
("comodato"). At the end of the project, MBS could pass on the
property entirely to the organization in charge (base costs
US$210,000).
(d) Finally, the project would also finance institutional support
activities including: (i) vehicles, office equipment, salaries, per
diem and O&M of vehicles for a group of local staff within SSDR
(4 staff and 24 community promoters), who would provide assistance
to beneficiaries identifying and implementing the activities
mentioned above; and (ii) consultant services to carry out studies
supporting post-harvest processing and marketing activities. These
studies would identify existing technologies, assess marketing
possibilities for different products and estimate the feasibility of
proposed enterprises (base costs US&$1.0 million).
CgOnEftv Development Fund (FODECO)
2.37        The Community Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Comunitario -
FODECO) would be established by the project to help finance local projects
submitted by groups of beneficiaries for technology transfer or training
activitiee, as well as economically feasible productive projects (at the
village or community level). The Undersecretariat for Rural Deveiopment
(SSDR) of the Ministerio de Bienestar Social (MBS), would be responsible for
implemeting the component. The FODECO Committee, including non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), the beneficiaries and MBS, would decide which local
projects to fund, within limits set by the annual project plans (POAs). Local
farmers' organizations, assisted by project staff and the staff of NGOs, would



- 21 -
identify, implement and manage the local projects. The beneficiaries of
FODECO would be small farmers' organizations (Asociaciones do Aaricultores),
associations of farm workers (Asociaciones de TrabaJadores A?ricolcs),
corporate village groups (comunas), water-users associations (Juntao do
Usuarios), And other types of groups composed of 12 or more small-scale
farmers considered as beneficiaries by the PRONADER project. These
organizations would be the owners of the local projects from the start and
therefore fully responsible for their operation and maintenance.
2.38        The proposed component is built on the experience inder the
previous RD projects in Ecuador, and taking into account other examples of
similar arrangements under Bank-financed projects in Bolivia sad Brazil. Its
main objectives would be to:
(a) promote associations of farmers by supporting collective efforts and
group activities;
(b) support the transfer of production technology by financing the
actual application of the technology by a group of farmers in their
own plots ("learning-by-doing");
(c) strengthen these groups, eventually becoming organizations legally
recognized, in technical, managerial and organizational matters
through financing productive and sustainable rural enterprises; and
(d) develop local capacity to identify investment opportunities, as well
as prepare, execute and manage economically viable community-level
projects.
2.39        The FODECO fund would help finance projects under two main lines:
(a) Line I of FODECO (base costs US$3.0 million). Local projects would
support technology transfer and training by providing small amounts
of inputs, equipment, and supplies for the demonstration or initial
use of technology promoted by the Project to a limit of US$5,000 of
total cost per project and the farmers would be required to
contribute at least 102 of the costs, either as labor, materials or
cash. The beneficiary groups may be either permanent or temporary.
The main criterion for judging the project would be its
effectiveness in terms of training farmers to use production
technology being promoted by the project. The second criterion
would be the potential effect of the project on the level of
organization of the group. Some of the types of projects to be
financed include:
- seeds production and distribution;
- demonstration of new agricultural technology;
- smell livestock;
- animal health and veterinary supplies;
- introduction of vegetables and fruits;
-  storage and processing;
- agroindustries;
- craft production;
- community infrastructure and marketingt



- 22 -
(b) Line 2 of FODECO (bass costs US$4.6 million). Line 2 funding would
be primarily for investment in relatively larger-scale, sustainable
and economically viable local project., that would be designed to
produce for a proven market. The beneficiaries would be permanent
groups setting up long-term enterprises, and the project would be
judged by economic feasibility as well as social benefits. Line 2
support would be limited to project. with a total cost under
US$20,000 for any single project. This line would help farmers'
organizations to establish village and community-level centers for
crop processing, marketing and storage. Farmers would establish
approximately 260 post-harvest processing and community marketing
projects, each associated with a local organization having 15 to 40
members at an average cost of US$16,000 per project. The primary
purpose of these projects would be to store, process and sell local
crops, linked in a regional network with the regional centers
described in the post-harvest component. The local organization
would also be the contact for PRONADER technology transfer agents,
selict local promoters, purchase inputs, implement forestry actions,
and in general serve as a coamunications channel between the project
and farmers. They would operate as businesses, keep financial
records, provide monetary benefits for the population, and generate
profits for re-investment and distribution among owner/members. The
farmers would be required to contribute 10-20S of the total costs
either as labor, materials or cash.
2.40        NGOs would be encouraged to participate in implementation in the
following ways: (a) to identify local projects, working with farmers and
project area offices; (b) to assist preparation of local projects; (c) to
prcvide technical assistance during implementation of projects; (d) to provide
management assistance to the local organization in charge of the project; and
(e) in some cases, to serve as a financial intermediary between FODECO and
farmers' organizations in clanneling the funds. The costs of special
assistance provided by NGOs could be financed as a line item in each local
project and would not reach more than 101 of the total cost of the local
project. This funding would be approved only for NGOs that hire additional
promoters to work with participating farmers' organizations. NGOs include
only second degree farmers' organizations, national or international non-
profit organizations, and voluntary organizations. NGOs do not include
profit-seeking companies, political parties, government :&gencies or
individuals.
2.41        A special administrative unit would be established within MBS
exclusively to manage the FODECO fund. The project would finance vehicles,
furniture and office equipment, salaries, travel and pee   ymm of local
personnel and consulting services. The FODECO office wou.. receive and review
proposals, organize meetings of the FODECO committee, maintain records of
proposals and actions taken, execute the orders of the FODECO committee,
resolve problems of funding local projects, monitor the implementation of the
local projects (with the area offices of SSDR/MBS), maintain a data base on
local projects in conjunction with the monitoring and evaluation office of
SSDR/MBS, and report monthly on actions taken and on the state of FODECO to
the FODECO co mittee and to the national office of PRONADER. This unit would
include a staff of seven professionals (coordinator, two accountants, and four
regional coordinators) and support staff, in addition to a long-term advisor
and short-term consultants financed through the technical assistance



- 23 -
component. In each of the areas there would be a community development
promoter working exclusively with this component under the coordination of the
unit in Quito. The local promoter would receive support from the accountants
and women specialist also working in the local office with the same
communities.
2.42        The FODECO committee would include: (a) two representatives of
the SSDR of MBS (one acting as President); (b) two rotating representatives of
participating NGOs that work with small farmers and have experience with
financial management; (c) two representatives of farmers' organizations; and
(d) the person in charge of the FODECO administrative office, who would act as
the secretary of the committee. The NGOs and the farmer representatives,
would serve for fixed terms not exceeding one year. The terms of service and
method for selection of members of the committee would be specified in FODECO
regulations to be reviewed by the Bank. The PODECO committee would decide
which projects to fund and would receive and approve supervision reports from
the YODECO office. The committee would meet each month and as convened by its
president.
2.43     During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a draft FODECO regulation,
which Was later approved by Ministerial Agreement No. 1053 on May 30, 1991.
As a condition for loan effectiveness, HBS would present to the Bank a
satisfactory action plan for establishing, operating and managing the FODECO
component, prepared in consultation with farmers and participating NGOs.
Rural Roads
2.44        The objective of the rural roads component of the proposed
project would be to ensure all-year-round access to the twelve selected areas
with the aim of minimizing losses of agricultural products, reducing unit
costs of transport and commercialization (inputs, output and people), as well
as permitting continuous access for technical assistance and social services.
The component would finances
(a)  civil works (bass costs US$21.5 million), including:
(i) construction of specific new sections for a total of about
100 km; and (ii) improvement of about 700 km of existing roads;
(b) engineering design and sunervision (base costs US$1.5 million); and
(c)  road maintenance (base costs US$1.6).
2.45        To minimize costs, most roads are designed as Class 4, according
to the Ministry of Public Works' (MOP) technical specifications for rural
roads. Engineering studies for 54 roads totalling 588 km have been completed.
Engineering for the remaining 17 roads totalling 205 km is underway and
expected to be completed by July/August, 1991, with a cost of US$350,000 to be
retroactively financed under the proposed project.
2.46        The SSDR of HBS would be responsible for this component, and the
construction of the roads would be implemented under contract with: (a) local
communities or farmers' organizations in the case of simple works (e.g.,
excavation of culverts and ditches, hand-laid stone paving and lining);
(b) local contractors or provincial councils, in case of construction of
culverts or small bridges, earth moving and gravel surfaces; and



- 24 -
(c) competitive bidding, in the case of larger works not feasible with the
previous procedures. Similarly, road maintenance would be contracted by SSDR
with local communities in the case of simple, labor-intensive works (clearing
of right-of-way, culverts and ditches, etc.) and with provincial councils or
local contractors regarding gravel surfaces and bridges. MBS has initiated
the bidding process to be able to contract the initiation of works for
19 priority roads totalling 169 km. and costing about US$4.0 million. These
civil works would be eligible for retroactive financing from the loan.
2.47        SSDR would carry out road maintenance as follows:
(a) Routine Maintenance including right of way clearing, cleaning of
culverts and side-ditches and maintenance of hand-laid stone
surfaces, stone-lining of side-ditches, spot-regra#eling, and minor
repair of culverts and bridges would be contracted: (i) on an annual
basis with road men who would each be responsible for routine
maintenance of a 5 km length of road; or (ii) with local communities
which would contribute labor under the traditional voluatary service
form used in the mountain regions called "mingas". Materials
required for routine maintenance such as stones for pavement repair,
gravel for spot-regraveling and lumber or cement for bridges and
culverts would be provided by the same agency responsible for
periodic maintenance.
(b) Periodic Maintenance including grading of gravel surfaces,
regraveling, major repair of culverts and bridges and eventual major
emergency repairs would be contracted by MBS with private
contractors or with provincial or municipal councils.
2.48        Maintenance operations would be programmed, supervised and
monitored by engineers of SSDR in the regions. Road maintenance expenditures
would be financed under the project and covered by the loan on a declining
basis according to Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. However, SSDR would be
fully responsible for maintenance only during the first six years of project
implementation. After the sixth year it would transfer the responsibility for
maintenance to the provincial councils. The agreements to be signed with the
provincial councils to this effect would provide financing to the councils to
cover maintenance expenditures during the rest of the project. Assurances
were obtained from GOE during negotiations that the Government would provide
financing of road maintenance expenditures, through mechanisms such as the
Sectoral Development Fund (Fondo de Desa'rollo Seccional, FODESEC) or a
similar mechanism not requiring annual btdgetary approvals, to ensure adequate
road maintenance after December 31, 1997.
Water Harvestinta
2.49        The water harvesting component would involve the construction of
150 small dams (maximum height 8 m) to collect surface run-off water from
intermittent streams in dry areas without permanent rivers or groundwater
suitable for consumption (sulfate content is double the World Health
Organization maximum acceptable limit of 400 mg/liter). The project would
finance engineering designs, civil works and supervision for the construction
of these reservoirs, as well as complementary equipment and facilities for
washing and processing coffee (base costs US$2.8 million).



- 25 -
2.50        The component would be implemented in the two cantones of the
areas of JigilaDa and P16n in the province of Manabi, near the pacific coast,
100 km north of Guayaquil. The town of Jipijapa obtains its domestic water
supply from a 45 km pipeline. The scattered rural population collects water
from roofs in cisterns and from ponds in natural depressions. As the dry
season progresses, local sources dry out and water is shipped in by tank
trucks at a cost to consumers of about US$3.50 per in. The problem of access
to water for domestic use and for cattle has resulted in continuous emigration
towards Guayaquil. Between 1985 and 1987, the MBS constructed 73 small dams,
financed under project UNDP/FAO/ECU 87-001. As a result, about 5,000 people
returned to their villages between 1987 and 1989.
2.51        Besides supplying water for drinking, bathing, washing and
cattle, the small reservoirs (albarradas) in some cases would also be used to
wash and depulp coffee, establish nurseries for reforestation and provide
minor irrigation on about 500 ha. Some of the small dams would also be
equipped with carbon filters for drinking water (drinking water should always
be boiled). The component would provide drinking water to 10,500 persons and
for other domestic uses to 22,500 persons. It would permit about 200,000
cattle to graze during the wet season, and LO,000 for year-round grazing. The
potential to improve the renovation of the coffee plantations, filling of
sprays tanks and depulping and washing coffee would ensure the employment of
about 4,500 people. The 500 ha of irrigation would employ about 2,000 people.
2.52        The Hydraulic Resources Council (JRH) of Jipijapa and Paj&n
(Manabi Province), located in the town of Jipijapa, would be the unit
responsible for supervision of works under contract with MBS. It would
coordinate its activities with the project offices located in Jipijapa and
Paj&n. the farmers are organized in the Farmers Unions of Jipijapa and Paj&n
(UNOCAJ and UNOCAP), and would be expected to participate in selecting the
sites and providing the land for the reservoirs. Overall responsibility would
fall on MBS and construction would be executed by contractors hired by MBS
based on engineering designs prepared by consultants. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from GOE that the implementation of this component
would be conditioned to positive annual assessments of the effectiveness of
the reservoirs at the end of the dry season (November/December). A first
assessment would have to be done not later than December 31, 1993 to verify
the use of the reservoirs built during the first two years.
Land Tenure Reaularization and Titlina
2.53        This component includes: (a) carrying out studies and field
surveys to identify the exact land tenure situation in the total area of the
project (637,000 ha and 54,000 farms); and (b) regularization of land tenure
and issuing of titles as required (a first estimate would be at least 10,000
new titles covering about 108,000 ha). The executing agency would be the
Ecuadorian Land Reform and Colonization Institute (IERAC) and the project
would finance additional personnel, _er diem, vehicles and equipment,
materials, supplies and incremental operating expenses. The proposed
methodology has already been tested in small areas (with USAID financing)
outside the project and is satisfactory. The implementation of this component
would also serve to provide experience in land regularization, aiming at the
possibility of future larger-scale programs (base costs US$2.0 million).



- 26 -
Traininr and Communicatlons
2.54        Training.  The objectives of the training sub-component of the
project would be: (a) to coordinate the training activities for different
components of the project; (b) to develop methods to implement small training
projects financed through FODECO (Line 1); (c) to assist local offices to
implement training events, including farmer-to-farmer technology transfer
events, local workshops, and field days; (d) to assist technical staff to
organize and train farmer-promoters (PACs and PCCs) to work in the areas of
agricultural production, crops processing, commercialization, and
organization; (e) to implement the irrigation training sub-component (para.
2.17) in conjunction with agricultural technical staff; (f) to implement
training events for technical staff, in order to mitigate or solve their
individual capacity/skill gaps; and (g) to develop and implement training for
project technical staff concerning extension methods, methods of working with
farmer organizations, and measures to include women among project
beneficiaries. The project would finance training events and meetings
(workshops, seminars, courses) vehicles, training equipment, short-term
consultants, travel, salaries of local personnel and O&M of vehicles (base
costs US$2.8 million).
2.55        Regarding training of beneficiaries, the project would work with
existing and new farmers' organizations, including producers' groups,
marketing groups, special women's groups, corporate villages, water users'
associations, cooperatives, organizations uniting local groups (second-order
groups) and others, both formal and informal. Most of the project's actions
would be undertaken with groups of between 12 and 40 members. These groups,
associated with a promoter, would also be the major recipients of production
technology.
2.56        Communications.  This subcomponent would finance equipment and
supplies, publications, communication services and salaries (base cost
US$0.7 million). Its objective would be to transmit and communicate technical
information, project news, progress reports, and general ideas on rural
development to beneficiaries, project staff and the general public. The means
of communication would be a project monthly newspaper, a monthly column to be
published in national newspapers, radio and television programs as well as
news bulletins and press conferences. Similar communication activities have
been financed in the on-going rural development projects and have proved to be
very effective in terms of dissemination of information about the project,
increasing the level of awareness of staff as well as of beneficiaries about
the project objectives and how to accomplish them.
2.57        Coordination of the training and communications activities of the
project would be the responsibility of the Training Unit inside the SSDR of
MBS. The unit would cooperate with project technical staff to organize
training events, in particular the staff working with FODECO, technical
assistance consultants, and NGO staff. The staff of the area and regional
PRONADER offices would participate in training and technical assistance for
farmers' organizations. This unit would consist of three permanent
professional staff. In addition, it would receive technical assistance in the
form of one long-term adviser and various short-term consultants.



- 27 -
Inatitutional  _evelosment
2.58        The project preparation process included an analysis of the
institutional capacity available to implement the activities. This analysis
was carried out by IICA consultants with guidance from Bank staff, using the
Institutional Capacity Analysis System (ICAS). Based on the objectives and
proposed strategies, as wvll as the resources that would be made available
through the project, work programs were disaggregated into tasks to describe
how the sharing of responsibilities would work. A review of involved
agencies' institutional capacity to implement such work programs was used to
identify institutional capacity gaps (ICGs) from the legal, inter-
institutional, organizational, personnel policy and skills viewpoints. A
consolidated list of ICCG was used as a basis for the design and praparstion
of the project-supported institutional development components (PSIDC).
2.59        The main objective of the institutional development activities
would be to help remove or mitigate ICGs identified against project tasks, so
as to increase chances of success with efficiency and to create conditions of
sustainability of project objectives and benefits. Therefore, all PSIDC
inputs are related, as precisely as possible, to ICGs identified against each
one of the affected tasks. Delivery of these inputs and their adequate use
would help eliminate or mitigate ICGe in accordance with a schedule that takes
into consideration the dates at which affected tasks must yield their expected
outputs. The main activities would be: (a) government's political,
administrative and technical decisions that do not require any specific
investment or spending; (b) snecialists services to help remove those ICGs
that require specific reviews, studies, or innovative solutions and high-level
management/professional support for new processes; and (c) trainina astivities
to help remove skill gaps identified against tasks to be performed by
managerial, professional and technical staff and beneficiaries (paras.
2 .54-2 .57)
2.60        These institutional development activities include 42 man/years
of international specialist assistance and 121 man/years local professionals
for a total cost of about US$4.8 million. This technical assistance would be
used for: (i) research, validation and technology transfer for innovative
aspects of the project; (ii) land tenure regularization and titling programs;
(iii) monitoring and evaluation systems, procedures and activities;
(iv) technical sub-sectors-related activities such as marketing, forestry,
credit; (v) administration; and (vi) management and professional training
activities. GOE would procure this technical assistance in accordance with
Bank policy and would prefer an international organization rather than
individual consultants, although the hiring of few such individual consultants
is not precluded. For this reason, a technical cooperation contract would be
procured by MBS to ensure integration of activities and the highest level of
competence and efficiency. IICA would be a possible candidate due to its long
and successful experience with RD in Ecuador and w4th MBS in particular.
2.61        Overall coordination and supervisioiL of implementation of these
activities would be the responsibility of the Institutional Development
Division within SSDR, which would be headed by an organization specialist and
staffed by two professionals. This division would also be responsible for the
continuing analysis of the institutional environment in which the project is
being implemented. This would help project management to identify issues and
formulate alternative solutions to make adequate and timely decisions. The



- 28 -
capacity analysis that started with a disaggregation of project objectives
into detailed work programs expressed in tasks, would make easier the
preparation of annual work plans (POAs) and the supervision of their
implementation. More detailed information on these activities is presented in
Annex 4.
Environmental Impact
2.62     The proposed project does not include activities considered to have
a negative environmental impact. It includes actions in traditional
agricultural areas only, with farmers who have been established for many
years. New settlement schemes are not being considered. Moreover, the
project would not expand agricultural output at the expense of forest. On the
contrary, it would significantly increase the area covered by forests and
permanent crops, increasing their productivity and their sustainability.
Forestation around small dams, to protect the water catchment areas, and in
the irrigation schemes to serve as wind-breakers and reduce soil erosion would
be strongly promoted. Modern production practices would be validated and
transferred to the beneficiaries, and would emphasize conservation of the
natural resource base.
2.63        Nevertheless, SSDR hired a group of international and local
consultants through a technical assistance program with IICA, to carry out a
comprehensive Environmental Impact Review (EIR) of the project, covering all
twelve areas and all components. This study has been conducted by the
consultants in close collaboration with MAG, the National Office of
Environmental Affairs (DINAMA) and several NGOs with experience in this field.
The objectives of the study were to: (a) recommend mechanisms to enhance
environmental protection in general; (b) identify specific project activities
that might have an adverse environmental impact; and (c) propose mechanisms to
cancel, mitigate or compensate these negative impacts. The study was reviewed
at appraisal and the main recommendations integrated into the design of the
project.
2.64        The component would finance: vehicles, office and laboratory
equipment; materials and supplies; salaries; travel and per diem; O&M of
vehicles; and short term consultant services (baseline costs US$860,000). In
addition, technical assistance from long-term advisers would be provided
through the technical assistance component.
2.65        The main environmental concerns during implementation would be
potential contamination of water from increased use of agrochemicals, water
deficit resulting from augmented demand in relation to existing supply,
increased soil erosion resulting from continuous annual cropping, and water
contamination of reservoirs (with animal/human waste) from improper use and
poor management. For every potential negative impact specific preventive
and/or mitigating measures have been proposed. In general, actions proposed
are related to improved agricultural production practices to be fostered under
the project. In relation to the use of pesticides it has been recommended
that PRONADER should eliminate from its list of pesticides those that have
been banned in other countries such as Furadan, Aldrin and Paraquat. In
addition, a monitoring system would be established to detect the presence of
pesticides residue and other chemicals in irrigation and drainage water. For
particular project activities, i.e., construction of tunnels for small
irrigation systems (such as the Cangahua scheme) about which available



- 29 -
information was found to be insufficient or inadequate to predict potential
consequences, it has been recommended that specific environmental impact
studies (to be financed by the project) be required before the Bank and the
GOE authorize their construction.
2.66        The environmental review identified one proposed reserve area,
Monumento Natural El Angel, which is located within the area of influence of
the Espejo-Mira area. The area is reported to have important watersheds which
provide water for drinking and for irrigation to small towne situated below
it. Although access to existing primary forest is difficult, the main threat
would be from project beneficiaries harvesting trees fcr firewood. El Angel
is one of a network of proposed areas for which a well-known NGO, Fundaci6n
Natura, has been trying to obtain official reserve status from the GOE.
Therefore, the proposed project would include financing for: (a) preparation
of a management plan for this reserve area; (b) physical demarcation of the
area; and (c) educational and technical assistance programs to involve
existing communities in the protection of the area. Assurances from GOE were
obtained during negotiations that: (i) GOE would present Terms of Reference,
cost estimates and a time schedule for the preparation of this management
plan, satisfactory to the Bank not later than December 31, 1991; and (ii) the
management plan for the reserve would have been completed not later than
December 31, 1992.
2.67        Following the EIR recommendations, it has been agreed with the
GOE that the project would support the establishment and operation of an
environmental unit inside SSDR.  This unit, Unidad del Medio Ambiente (UMA)
would have the following functions and responsibilities:
(a) to revise and adjust some proposed project activities based on the
findings of the EIR;
(b) to identify and carry out (or supervise) complementary environmental
studies, as required;
(c) to translate all recommendations into an environmentally sound
strategy, and to produce a set of operational instructions for the
implementation of the project, with the objective of minimizing
possible regative impacts;
(d) to help the N&E unit establish mechanisms to control and measure the
environmental impacts of the project;
(e) to participate, with the Training Unit of SSDR, in training staff
and beneficiaries in environmental aspects; and
(f) to coordinate activities and studies with other institutions (both
public and private), as well as NGOs, dealing with this area.
2.68        The basic staff needed for the UMA would include a coordinator
and three specialists to cover different areas of environmental concern:
(a) irrigation, civil works and water management; (b) natural resource
management and conservation; and (c) socio-economic aspects. These
specialists would form the permanent team of the UMA and they would receive
substantial support from specialists financed through the Technical Assistance



- 30 -
Component. This assistance would include: (i) a long-term expert on a
permanent basis (5 man-years); and (ii) short-term consultants to be able to
respond to urgent needs and specific problems to be identified during
implementation (60 man-months). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from GOE that UMA would be established and staffed before December 31, 1991,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.69        During project implementation, monitoring activities would be
carried out by MBS with the assistance of DINAMA, MAG and the environmental
NGOs. Not later than June 30, 1992, MBS would reach an agreement with the
group of concerned environmental NGOs on the procedures for their
participation. During project implementation, monitoring of soil erosion and
water-borne sedimentation would receive priority. During the operational
phase, monitoring would also focus on water quality to determine possible
chemical contamination (from agricultural production or from agroindustries)
of water courses, as well as Gn the ecological health of the wetlands. The
project would monitor the impact of excess flood water in the flood-protected
areas. Monitoring (in consultation with participating agricultural agencies)
would also cover integrated pest control practices supported by the project,
as well as pesticide and fertilizer use. This monitoring of the environmental
aspects would ensure that the recommendations of the study are followed in a
timely manner and that new problems would be identified and the proper
corrective actions taken expeditiously by the executing agencies.
ParticivatLon of Rural Women in the Proiect
2.70        In most of the project areas, women are active participants in
agricultural, post-harvest and marketing activities, as well as in general
decision-making as members of the community. The relative importance of women
as potential project beneficiaries is increased by the existence of many women
as heads of rural households and in charge of the farms, the result of
migration by men to urban areas in search of better employment. As part of
project preparation, MBS studied women's organizations in the selected areas
and several NGOs also reported on their experience with women's projects in
activities such as community stores, craft production, marketing, vegetable
production, growing of small animals and crop processing. This experience
and the strong interest (from both MBS and NGOs) in intensifying  woik with
rural women led to the inclusion of specific actions in the project to address
women's needs. These actions would enable the project to reach a larger
population, increase adoption rates for innovative technology and enhance
agricultural production and incomes.
2.71        The specific actions included in the project would be:
(a) Staffing: Although there may be some cultural barriers to the
inclusion of women, the project would adopt the goal of having at
least 20X of staff positions filled by women.
(b) Technical SuDDort: A group of SSDR staff, compizising 12 field
promoters and a national coordinator in Quito, would be working in
the project areas, promoting women's participation in general, and
working with other project staff in selecting and implementing
specific activities. This group would be assisted by a long-term
advisor financed through the technical assistance component.



- 31 -
(c)  Training:  The project's training unit, in coordination with the
institutional development specialist *nd the long-term advisor
mentioned in (b) above, would program and implement training events
frt staff and farmers to design mechanisms for removing existing
barriers and limitations to include women more intensively in the
project.
(d)  FODECO lInes exclusively designed for women.  Some community
development projects to be financed by FODECO have been designed
exclusively for women, with the objectives of raising nutritional
levels, and increasing employment and incomes. These projects (witk
their estimated base costs) aro:
- Small livestock (US$360,000)
- Production of fruits and vegetables (US$338,000)
- Artisan crafts (US$185,000)
- Community infrastructure (US$4001,C00)
- Training in household/community agroindustry (US$366,000)
(e)  Studies.  Specific studies would be implemented (financed under the
technical assistance component) to: (i) describe women's activities
and their needs; (ii) recommend alternative strategies and actions;
(iii) identify existing constraints in the rural sector and propose
ways of removing them; and (iv) suggest adjustments either in the
legal framework or in the institutional structure to be able to
address these issues more effectively.
(f)  Monitorint and Evaluation.  The M&E unit of SSDR would be
responsible for assessing the progress achieved by the project with
women beneficiaries and their organizations. In consultation with
field staff it would also identify constraints and propose actions
to solve them.
E. PROJECT 0RGAUIZATI0R
Project Management
2.72        In accordance with the established legal and institutional
framework, MBS, through SSDR, would be in charge of overall project
implementation, as well as of coordination and management. MBS would enter
into operating agreements, satisfactony to the Bank, with agencies and
institutions specialized in different fields which would be in charge of
lmplementation of specific activities, inter-alia: (a) entities of the central
government, such as MAG, INIAP, BNF, INERHI, and IERAC; (b) provincial
governments and municipal administrations; (c) participating NGOs (such as
CAAP and FBU); and (d) technical assistance or training organizations (IICA,
Colombian HIMAT, universities, etc.).
2.73          As a condition for loan effectiveness, MBS would finalize
agroements  atisfactory to the Bank withs (a) INERHI for the irrigation and
flood control component; (b) INIAP for validation of technology; (c) BNF for
the use of additional budgetary allocations through FONADRI to expand credit
in the project areas; (d) IERAC for the implementation of land tenure
regularization and titling; and (e) JRi for the water harvesting component.



- 32 -
2.74        SSDR would coordinate project implementation through its own
structure already in operation, complemented and strengthened by the proposed
project. The project vould finance: (a) investments in vehicles, construction
and improvement of field offices, furniture and office equipment (base costs
US$1.6 million); and (b) recurrent costs, including salaries, travel and per
diem for local personnel, materials and supplies, O&M of vehicles, and
meetings and coordination activities (base costs US$5.1 million).
2.75        At the central level, the SSDR has three directorates:
(a) General Administration; (b) Monitoring and Evaluation; and (c) Operations.
Under these directorates, the following departments would operate:
(i) Financial, (ii) Legal, (iii) Rural Development; (iv) Civil Works; and
(v) Institutional Development and Training. At the regional level, there
would be four Regional Technical Units (UTRs) with responsibility to
coordinate project implementation at this level and to provide technical
support, guidance and assistance to the local offices in specialized areas
(such as validation and transfer of technologies, forestry, processing and
marketing, farmers' organizations and operation of FODECO). Finally, at the
local level, there would be 12 Area Coordinating Units (UCAs) to coordinate
the implementation of the project with other executing agencies and the
beneficiaries on a continuous basis (from identification of needs and
programming of activities, to actual execution and evaluation of results for
feed-back).
Monitorina and Evaluation (M&E)
2.76        A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Directorate has been
established within SSDR. The project would finance: vehicles; office
equipment; studies and consultant services; salaries and ver diem of local
personnel; and O&M of vehicles (base costs US$742,000). This unit would be
formed by a multidisciplinary team and would monitor progress in reaching
project tarlets, based on verifiable, time-bound, key performance indicators
for all project components. The M&E team would coordinate its activities with
other directorates (and through SSDR with the other participating agencies)
allowing project management early identification of implementation problems
and appropriate actions to solve them. Semi-annual progress reports would be
submitted to all participating and implementing agencies and to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of each respective period. The reports
would include all relevant data on physical and financial progress of the
project together with reasons for deviations from the targets set under annual
work pl'ang t(POAs), identifying major issues/problems in planning and
implementing the project. These reports would be consolidated into an annual
report to be prepared bt SSDR not later than 3 months after the end of each
fiscal year. This report would serve as the basis for an Annual Performance
Review to be implemented between the Bank and GOE with the objective of
agreeing on measures and actions to be taken to increase effectiveness in
project implementation. This review would cover all aspects of the project
but would pay special attention to the level of counterpart funds required for
the project, making recommendations for allocations in the next budget, and
suggesting adjustments in the geographical distribution of project resources.
2.77        The main objectives of the evaluation studies would be to
estimate the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as well
as the socioeconomic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. A baseline
survey would be conducted during the first year of implementation to establish



- 33 -
the initial project situation. Subsequently, two evaluation surveys would be
conducted: a mid-term review at the end of year four and a final review within
one year of project completion. The mid-term review would analyze the
foliowing: the impact of irrigation schemes, rural roads and other civil
works; the delivery of agricultural support serviceo; the effectiveness of
environmental measures taken; the results of the processing and marketing
component; the operation of FODECO; and the effectiveness of the institutional
development activities.  Thereafter, recommendations would be made of measures
to be taken to ensure optimal use of available resources to reach project
targets, including reallocation of funds, institutional changes, additional
studies and possible follow-up projects. The final, broad assessment of the
project impact would comprise the substance of the Project Completion Report.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) SSDR would, as a condition
of effectiveness, satisfactorily establish a monitoring system using a list of
performance indicators accepted by the Bankc; and (b) following receipt of the
annual review recommendations, the GOE and the Bank would discuss and agree on
specific measures to be taken to ascertain achievement of all project
objectives.
Accounts and Audits
2.78        MBS, other public participating agencies, and NGOs would keep
separate accounts to record their expenditures on the project. MBS (through
SSDR) would have overall responsibility for project implementation. All
participating agencies would submit their requests for reimbursement of
project expenditures to SSDR, which would maintain separate project accounts
and records for each project component, consolidate them into the project
accounts and prepare SOEs. Supporting documentation would be maintained by
the various implementing agencies and made available to visiting Bank missions
and independent auditors, who at their judgment would make field visits to
implementing agencies for the purpose of the overall audit.
2.79        SSDR is efficieTtly maintaining the accounts of the two on-going
rural development projects (Loans 1991 and 2044-EC). In addition, SSDR has
recently reorganized and strengthened its financial department, with new
computer hardware and software at the national level. Retroactive financing
would be sought under the project for a consulting study to: (a) review
operation of the new system; (b) recommend further improvements in efficiency
and security; and (c) propose additional hardware and software to extend the
system to regional and area offices of SSDR. The study would be completed by
December 31, 1991. The investment costs necessary to implement (c) above
would also be eligible for financing under the project.
2.80        SSDR would require, in all operating agreements with
participating agencies, public or private, that a standard set of operating,
admiaistrative and accounting procedures be used. SSDR has prepared draft
manuals reviewed by the Bank at negotiations for: (a) accounting, with plan of
accounts, budgeting and management reports; (b) preparation of statements of
expenditure (SOEs); and (c) administrative procedures for procurement, payment
authorization and policies to resolve conflicts of interest and fraud. During
negotiations, it was agreed that MBS would assign a full-time senior internal
auditor to make field visits on a random basis to verify that participating
agencies are following these procedures. The internal auditor's anngal work
plan and schedule of visits would be prepared in agreement with the external
independent auditor and provided to the Bank for comMents.



- 34 -
2.81        Project accounts, Including the special account and SOEs would be
audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles with terms
of reference (TORs) approved by the Bank. During negotiations, it was agreed
that SSDR would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, to be
financed from the proceeds of the loan. Audit of the special account would
also be the responsibility of these auditors. Furthermore, MBS would ask the
independent auditors to give opinion ons (a) the compliance with the condition
of O&H cost recovery regarding each one of the irrigation and flood control
schemes (para. 2.20); (b) compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines
and procedures, using standard bidding documents accepted by the Bank; and
(c) the representative nature of the documents presented to the Bank for prior
review (para. 2.89). Certified copies of these audits would be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the closing of each fiscal year.
F. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Costs
2.82        The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$112.7
million, excluding duties and taxes. Dizect and indirect foreign exchange
costs would be about US$36.3 million, or 32.32 of total project cost.
Baseline costs have been estimated at US$106.4 million using July 1990 prices.
Physical contingencies of US$4.2 million have been included for various
components, representing 4.02 of total baseline costs. Price contingencies on
foreign costs have been estimated, in accordance with Bank directives it at
US$2.1 million, representing 2.01 of total baseline costs. Furtner details on
project costs and annual phasing of investments are summarized in Annex 7.
Financina
2.83        A Bank loan of US$84.0 million equivalent would finance 74.52 of
total project costs (net of taxes and duties). It would finance: (a) 1001 of
foreign and 901 of local expenditures of vehicles, goods and equipment (except
for the FODECO component); (b) 901 of all civil works expenditures; (c) 901 of
goods and equipment under the FODECO component; (d) 901 of all goods,
equipment and services expenditures under the training and communications
components; (e) 1001 of consulting and auditing services; and (f) an overall
average of 751 of O&M costs for irrigation and flood control schemes, roads
and vehicles (the loan would finance O&W on a declining basis). Land
acquisition, salaries and per diem of local staff and personnel, on-farm
investments and incremental funds to increase credit availability to small
farmers, would not be eligible for financing under the loan. Eligible
expenditures from November 17, 1990 to the date of loan signature, would be
considered for retroactive financing from the loan, up to a maximum of
US$7.5 million. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that adequate
and timely counterpart funding would be made available to MBS and all
executing agencies.
2.84        Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years which is
consistent with the standard disbursement profile for Bank-'inanced projects
in Ecuador.
I' 0. D. 6.50, June 1990.



- 35 -
Suecial Account
2.85        To expedite implementation, GOE would establish a special account
for the project In US dollars, to cover eligible Bank expenditures under the
loan. The Benk would deposit up to an initial US$4.0 million into this
account, equivalent to an estimated four months of average disbursements.
SSDR would manage this account and make withdrawals. Disbursements from the
account would ba made on the basis of SOEs. SOEs would be accepted under
single civil works contracts valued at Less than the equivalent of
US$1.0 million. For goods and equipmeutt the limit far SOEs would be the
equivalent of US$150,000 or lces. Above these limits, full documentation
would be required for each disbursement. The account would be replenished
through normal reimbursement of project expenditures.
Procurement
2.86        The project would include US$19.1 million (about 17X of project
costs) for components not involving procurement (on-farm investment, and
salaries and pe diem of GOE personnel). Procurement of all other components
would follow Bank procurement guidelines, taking into account that: (a) cl.vil
works would comprise a great number of medium and small works scattered in
12 different project areas; and (b) goods, including vehicles, equipment and
miscellaneous, would be divided into a large number of categories of which
only a few would justify international competitive bidding (ICB). To increase
the amount to be procured by international competitive bidding, packaging of
civil works contracts and goods procurement would be undertaken wherever
feasible.
2.87        Procurement for civil works costing US$80,000 equivalent or less
and for goods costing US$25,000 equivalent or less would be done through local
or international shopping involving at least three price quotations. This is
expected to total US$22.1 million (about 202 of project costs). Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for
procurement of: civil works costing between US$80,000 and US$1.5 million
equivalent, totaling US$30.0 million (about 27Z of project costs); and goods
costing between US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent, totaling US$7.1 million
(about 61 of project costs). International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures in agreement with the Bank's guidelines would be used for
procurement of: civil works costing more than US$1.5 million equivalent,
totaling US$15.0 million (about 132 of project costs); and goods costing more
than US$200,000 *quivalent, totaling US$5.2 million (about 52 of project
costs). Local manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference under ICB
contracts for goods in accordance with Bank's guidelines. Consulting and
auditing services, estimated to cost US$14.2 million equivalent, or 132 of
project costs, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. These
arrangements are sua-rized in the table below.



- 36 -
Procuremnt Arraneemnts /
(US$ Filllon)
Project El ment                 ICB         LCB       Other      N.A.       TOTAL
Civil Works                    15.0       30.0        10.0       -          55.0
(13.5)    (27.0)       (9.0)                 (49.5)
Vehicles                        2.5        -           -         -           2.5
(2.3)       -           -        -           (2.3)
Other Goode V                   2.7        7.1         4.0       -          13.8
(2.5)     (5.4)        (3.2)     -          (11.1)
Services                        -          -          14.2       -          14.2
(13.8)     -         (13.8)
Coinuntty Development           -                      8.1       -           8.1
Sub-projects                    -          _          (7.3)      -          (7.3)
Not Ilvolving ta- kfinanced                -           -        19.1        19.1
Procurement -
TorAL                          20.2       37.1        36.3      19.1       112.7
(18.3)    (32.4)       (33.3)     -         (84.0)
/  Figures In parenthesis reflect the estlmated amounts to be financed by IBRD and Including
contingencies.
' Equipment, furniture, operation and maintenance, materials and supplies, trainnig,
comnAmications and promotion.
/ Consultant and auditing services, studies, engineering supervisioi, training, promotion and
coURMmications.
4 Local personnel and on-fazm investment.
2.88       MBS is preparing standard bidding documents for ICB and LCB of
civil works and goods, as well as for hiring consultants, to be used as models
during project implementation based on drafts reviewed by the Bank. GOE has
recently enacted new procurement laws that overcome past disagreements about
Bank procurement guidelines taking precedence over local law. The loan
agreement for this project contains explicit reference to the points of
difference, either in substance or interpretation, between Bank guidelines and
pertinent Ecuadorian legislation, as well as those procedures not specifically
mentioned in the Bank'. guidelines.
2.89       All procedires, documents, bid evaluation and contract awards for
ICB procurment of goods and works and for procurement of consulting services
costing US$30,000 equivalent or more, would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Because LCB bid packages would be too small and numerous for effective
ex-ante review by the Bank, only the first two LCB procurement processes for
each component in each year would be subject to such prior review by the Bank.
Furthermore, the audit teems of reference to be prepared by MBS would ask the
auditors to certify that procurement has been done using the bidding documents
agreed with the Bank and that the procurement documents presented to the Bank
for prior review are representative. However, the Bank would review LCB and



- 37 -
local shopping procurement procedures on an ex-post basis by sampling. If it
were determined that procurement did not follow agreed procedures, then no
expenditure for such item would be financed out of loan proceeds and the Bank
would cancel the corresponding loan amount.
2.90       MBS is currently negotiating a technical cooperation agreement with
IICA, under which this multilateral organization would administer and manage
the technical assistance activities, recruiting consultants, either locally or
overseas, following Bank guidelines and procedures. Similar arrangements with
IICA have been very successful under the on-going RD projects, and IICA would
provide a long experience with RD, not only in Ecuador but also in other Latin
American countries.
2.91       To reduce the long delays resulting from the need to have approval
of bidding documents for each tender by the Procuraduria General del Estado
and the Contraloria General de la Naci6n, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the review of the Procuraduria and the Contraloria would be
limited to the basic standard bidding documents for civil works, goods and
services to be used as models during implementation. The review of the
bidding awards would still be subject to the review of both the Procuraduria
and the Contraloria.
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Proiect Benefits
2.92       The project would generate benefits derived from a combination of
improvements in rural infrastructure, including rural roads and marketing
facilities, expansion of irrigation, adoption of improved production
technology, promotion of village-level development activities and enhancement
of environmental quality for rural areas. Some of these benefits,
particularly those related to social or environmental impacts, cannot be
readily quantified, though they are likely to be considerable. The four
benefits that have been used in calculating the project's economic rate of
return are: (a) increased agricultural production; (b) benefits from forestry;
(c) benefits from post-harvest processing and marketing of products; and
(d) benefits from community development investments.
2.93       Increased Agricultural Production.  This accounts for more than 901
of total quantified benefits. The incremental production would come from
expansion of cropped areas, new cropping patterns with introduction of higher-
value crops, double-cropping and higher yields, derived from the combined
effect of improved technology and the increased availability of irrigation
water, as well as flood protection and drainage. Based on representative farm
models, all but the smallest farms (2-4 ha in the rainfed areas) would be able
to increase their annual net incomes above the poverty line, as a result of
the project. Moreover, the largest farms in the irrigated areas would be able
to reach a level of income comparable to the national average per capita GDP.
Aggregate net farm incomes for all direct project beneficiaries show an
increase of about 1501 above the level without the project.
2.94       Benefits from Forestry.  Some of the main objectives of the new
forests are to contribute to a better conservation of natural resources, serve



- 38 -
as wind barriers and increase availability of firewood. However, there would
also be income from the sales of cuttings during the growing period, as well
as from timber from the mature trees at the end of the period. Since this is
a long-term investment, the estimated cash flow shows a peak of US$3.8 million
in year 21 and the cycle from some native trees is close to 40 years. The net
income estimated for this component in the benefit stream is very
conservative.
2.95       Benefits from Post-Harvest Processina and Marketint.  These
benefits have been estimated based on illustrative models for the operation of
the storage plants, processing and marketing centers and local fairs to be
financed for the project. These facilities would provide a gain to the
producers derived from obtaining a larger share of the wholesal,-retail price
difference. As a conservative estimate, this gain from intermediation is
based only on the incremental production generated by the project. Moreover,
other likely benefits (such as a decrease in overall losses and wastage, an
increase in quality of products and higher prices) have not been added to this
estimate.
2.96       Benefits from the Community Development Component.  Based also on
illustrative models for the different types of projects to be financed by this
component, an aggregate stream of net profits has been estimated. Most of
these would be replicating already successful enterprises; nevertheless, a
conservative success rate of only 502 has been assumed in these calculations.
2.97       Other Important Benefits not Calculated.  Some of the important
benefits of the project could not be quantified and therefore have not been
included in the stream of benefits for the calculation of the ERR. The most
important of these is the benefit from the construction of the rural roads.
The benefits from increased agricultural production, post harvest processing
and marketing capture only some of the benefits of this investment. The total
benefit from improved communications and reduced costs of transportation of
inputs, outputs, and people, particularly outside the project areas, has not
been estimated. Similarly, some of the other important benefits not included
in the benefit stream for the economic analysis include:
(a) reduction in losses in output and on-farm investments derived from a
reduced risk of flooding;
(b) socio-economic benefits from the water reservoirs that would serve
more than 20,000 people, up to 200,000 head of cattle and would
provide irrigation for about 500 ha of crops; and
(c) indirect effects of promoting and strengthening private
organizations for rural development (farmers' organizations and
NGOo).
Economic Anallvis
2.98        Economic Prices.  An exchange rate of Sucres 885/US$ has been
assumed to reflect the real effective equilibrium rate following the economic
adjustment program and local currency devaluations undertaken by the GOE since
late 1988. Since some of the project areas suffer from seasonal unemployment,
the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been estimated at 46Z of the
market rate. Skilled labor, as well as thd rest of production costs have not



- 39 -
been adjusted for the economic analysis. In terms of agricultural outputs,
economic prices have been estimated for all major traded products using
appropriate border pricing techniques to compensate for different levels of
Government intervention. The correction factors applied to market financial
prices range from 0.70 to 1.0.
2.99        Benefits and Costs Streams.  The cost stream used for the
economic analysis of the project includes all investment and recurrent costs
(as presentcd in Annex 7) for all components. After completion of the
investment period (year 7) a constant recurrent cost is assumed (equal to the
level of the seventh year) for maintaining project implementation. On the
other side, the benefit stream includes only: (a) incremental net value of
agricultural output; (b) value of tradable forest products; (c) benefits from
post-harvest processing and marketing; and (d) estimated net benefits derived
from the community development activities. In year 15, the benefits stream
includes the estimated value of future benefits and residual value of
investments. The benefit and cost streams are presented in Tables I and 2 of
Annex 8.
Rate of Return and Sensitigity.
2.100       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated to
be 15%. Switching tests indicate that expected benefits would have to decline
16% or costs increase 202 before the ERR would fall to 12S, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital (OCC). Furthermore, the ERR fell to 12.5Z when it
was assumed that the benefits would be delayed by a year, and to 12.4Z when
the benefits after the year 15 were ignored. The project has an estimated net
present value of US$16.3 million at the assumed OCC (Annex 8, Table 3 ). Most
of this would benefit people from the rural areas with incomes much lower than
the median income of the country.
Project Risks
2.101       (a)  Manageabilitv.  Rural development is an inherently complex
task and will always carry with it significant management risks. The lessons
of previous RD projects in Ecuador in this respect have been taken into
account in the design of the project, which seeks to reduce the risk of
overcentralization and to focus on components which have a clear productive
purpose. The implementation strategy combines a centralized definition of
objectives, management and M&E within the MBS with a decentralized execution
including public and private organizations (NGO's and farmers' organizations),
many of which are already operating in the selected areas. This approach
would allow for much greater flexibility than in the vest, according to the
ability, experience and motivation of individual agencoes, and it would
promote intensive participation of beneficiaries at all levels.
(b) Sustainabilitv. The conception and preparation of this project have
benefitted from a high degree of commitment and competence in the MBS and in
the staff of the SSDR. Obviously, there is a risk that this level of
commitment may not be sustained throughout the Implementation period.
However, the best assurance of sustainability is again in the design of the
project itself. Beneficiary participation in design and preparation has
already ensured strong political momentum at the grassroots and, to a great
extent, has immunized the project against possibly disruptive political
changes in the central administration. The project has already touched a
large number of rural communities and has raised expectations in many more.



- 40 -
It is very unlikely that a new administration would see any political
advantage in reversing the momentum which has already been generated.
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Atreements
3.1        During negotiations, GOE provided assurances thats
(a) construction of the main tunnel included in the Cangahua irrigation
scheme will start before August 1, 1993 (para. 2.16);
(b) the Irrigation Training Unit would be set up and the training program
will start before December 31, 1991 (para. 2.18);
(c) Water Users Associations in all eight irrigation and flood control
schemes will be legally established before August 1, 1993 (para.
2.18);
(d) implementation of an accounting system, acceptable to the Bank, in
all eight irrigation and flood control schemes to determine actual
O&M costs will be completed before August 1, 1993 (para. 2.18);
(e) establishment of a system, acceptable to the Bank, for fixing and
collecting water charges to cover increasing percentages of O&M costs
will be operating by Auguet 1, 1993 (para. 2.20);
(f) the GOE and the Bank will agree on actions to be taken regarding any
particular scheme not in compliance with the condition (e) above. If
no agreement is reached or no action is taken 60 days after the
certification of no compliance, the Bank may suspend disbursements
from the loan for that scheme (para. 2.20);
(g) after January 1, 1998 all schemes will fix and collect water charges
for full O&M cost recovery (para. 2.20);
(h) GOE will provide, through specific budgetary allocations to be
channeled through PONADRI, the additional resources needed to expand
credit coverage to the project beneficiaries in the 12 areas
(para. 2.34);
(i) MBS will present a full feasibility study, acceptable to the Bank,
for each one of the 12 regional processing and marketing centers, as
well as for the five town markets and fairs (included in the Post-
Harvest Processing and Marketing Component) before starting
construction (para. 2.36);
(j) GO will provide financing for road maintenance to the provincial
councils, through the Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional (FODESEC) or
similar mechanisms not requiring annual budgetary allocations, not
later than January 1, 1998 (para. 2.48);



- 41 -
(k) MBS will provide by December 31, 1993 a first assessment of the
result of the construction and use of the water harvesting reservoirs
built during the first two years of the project. Based on this
assessment, GOE and the Bank would agree on the continuation of the
component (para. 2.52);
(1) regarding the Management Plan for the reserved area of E1 Angel, MBS
will: (i) present TOR acceptable to the Bank before December 31,
1991; and (ii) prepare the management plan before December 31, 1992
(para. 2.66);
(m) MBS will establish and staff an environmental unit within SSDR,
satisfactory to the Bank, before December 31, 1991 (para. 2.68);
(n) MBS will establish a M&E system acceptable to the Bank and submit to
the Bank semiannual progress reports no later than three months after
the end of each respective period (para. 2.77);
(o) GOE and the Bank will agree on establishing an Annual Performance
Review by which, following receipt of recommendations, the GOE and
the Bank would agree on specific measures to be taken to achieve
project objectives (para. 2.76);
(p) (i) all project accounts, including the SOEs and the Special Account,
will be maintained in accordance with proper accounting systems
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.78); (ii) MBS will hire independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit all projects accounts
according to practices acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.81); (iii) the
auditing reports will also have to cover the procurement procedures
followed by all executing agencies, and the O&M cost recovery systems
established in each one of the eight irrigation and flood control
schemes (para. 2.81); and (iv) these auditing reports will be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the closing
date of each fiscal year (para. 2.81); and
(q) (i) MBS and the other participating agencies (which implement project
components to be financed through the Bank loan) will follow
procurement arrangements described in paragraphs 2.86 to 2.91; and
(ii) the loan agreement will contain express provisions to resolve
specific conflicts between Bank guidelines and local legislation
(para. 2.86).
3.2        Conditions for loan effectiveness are that:
(a) MBS will submit to the Bank a satisfactory action plan for
establishing, operating and managing the FODECO fund (para. 2.43);
(b) MBS will sign operating agreements satisfactory to the Bank with:
(i) INERHI for the irrigation and flood control component; (ii) INIAP
for the validation of technology; (iii) BNF for the credit coverage
and credit regulations in the 12 areas; (iv) IERAC for the land
tenure regularization activities; and (v) JRH for the water
harvesting component (para. 2.73); and



- 42 -
(c) B8S will satiefactorliy establish the M&E systom, based on a list of
performance indicators accepted by the Bank (pare. 2.77).
ftccammendation
3.3        Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$84.0 million equivalent, on
standard terms for Ecuador (Class II country).
June 20, 1991



- 43 -
ANEX I
Page 1 of 5
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irri,ation and Flood Control Component
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The project would finance civil works, equipment (pipes, gates, pumps,
sprinklers, etc.), engineering design and supervision, and operation and
maintenance (OEM) for different types of small irrigation and flood control
schemes. They are grouped in three sub-components:
(a)   Completion of 8iX existing irrigation schemes: five in the
highlands, San Isidro (area of Espejo-Mira), Tabacundo and
Cannahua, (area of Sierra Norte de Pichincha), Alumis -Canal Baio
and Alumis -Canal del Norte (area of TTP); and one in the
foothills, Santa Isabel (area of Santa Isabel) (base costs
US$14.7 million);
(b)   Construction of two flood control and drainage echemes (base costs
US$11.9 million) in a traditional rice-growing area of the Guayas
river flood plain, La Herradura (area of Tres Postes) and Pula-
Jigual (area of San Pedro de Daule); and
(c)   Improvement and extension of 43 existing water courses (acepuias),
most of which date back to colonial times. Of these, 28 are in
the mountains (12 in Espejo-Mira; 11 in Sierra Norte de Pichincha;
and 5 in Toacaso-Tanicuchi-Pastocalle) and 15 are located in the
foothills near Santa Isabel (base costs US$1.5 million).
2.    In all schemes, civil works were started at one time or another, but
they were never completed for lack of funds. As a result, there exist already
many headworks,  some substantial sections of main canals and, in some cases,
including even tunnels. In the two flood control areas a rudimentary drainage
infrastructure exists, but embankments are almost non-existent.
3.    Due to the rainfall pattern, there are normally significant moisture
deficits in the highlands and foothills for several months of the year (May-
September). Therefore, the availability of water for irrigation in these
areas would permit a much higher production potential than under rainfed
farming conditions. Table 1 presents the monthly moisture balances for San
Iidro and Lgauradurza, which are considered representative of the highland
and coast regions respectively.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
Table Is Motiture Balances by Month (in m) LI
J   I   M   A   M   J   J   A    S   0   I   D    TOTAL
A. Bsa l adra
1.  Ruinfall    81.4   97.9   99.1   95.5   52.2   33.0   31.1   27.5   37.7   92.7  122.3  104.4  875.6
2.  Evapotr.nspiration 2/   82.7   74.1   86.9   79.5   $6.1   80.5   86.3   91.9   92.6   $6.6   77.2   76.8    1,003.1
3.  Salsace (3-1-2)  (1.3)  23.8   12.2   16.0  033.9) (46.7) (55.2) (64.4) (54.9)   6.1   45.1   25.6  (127.5)
8. *a Hertadura
1.  RI3 fafll  317    350    394    295  35  24  2  1  5  6  4  73  1156
2.  Zvapotransp1r*t1on 2/   79  76  91  87  74  56  58  68  72  71  71  78  881
3.  BALANCE (3-1-2)  238    274    303    208  11    (32)   (56)   (67)   (67)   (65)   (67)    (5)  675
1/ Averages over 23 years
2/ Panmau Method
4.   Irrigation offers substantial potential to raise the incomes of the
small-holder population. To achieve this, it would be necessary to
demonstrate how to use irrigation to maximize net income per hectare. In
general terms, this implies the introduction of a shift from traditional long-
duration crops (normally 9-months maize) to a combination of shorter duration
crops with a cropping pattern that permits two harvests per year. As a
transition, such a cropping pattern would have to maintain about 50Z
traditional crops and 50% high return crops. In order to promote this change,
extension services in thwee areas would promote on-farm demonstrations on
medium-size farms (3-5 ha) farmed by young farmers, who are more inclined to
accept change. In many areas milk production is important and demonstrations
are required of the income potential from improved irrigated pasture and
alfalfa.
5.   Because scarcity of irrigation water is common in the mountain and
foothill areas, it is essential to minimize losses in water conveyance,
distribution and application. Since natural pressure is available from the
topography, the typical irrigation method selected for the irrigation schemes
consists of a lined main canal with underground pvc secondary and tertiary
pipes supplying water to about 2.5 small hydrants per hectare. Connected to
each hydrant there would be one or two 50m hoses, each with one sprinkler.
Apart from the reduction in water losses, sprinklers have the further
advantage of permitting night irrigation without permanent attention or
extensive construction of night storage reservoirs. Furthermore, during the
night, wind velocities are minimal. Particular care would be required to
provide adequate filtration at the points where underground secondary pipes
take off from open main canals. Suspended organic material, such as algae and
leaves, form a major threat to the operation of the sprinkler system. The
irrigation component would serve as a pilot for a more general acceptance of
sprinkler irrigation among smallholders in other areas in the mountain and
foothills area where water is available.
6.   To avoid implementation problems encountered in many previous irrigation
projects, the project would provide the required irrigation equipment up to 5
hectares for every farmer. Those owning more than 5 ha would receive a water
allocation based on the assumption that the balance of their holding over 5
hag and up to a maximum of 20 ha, would eventually also be irrigated by
sprinklers, to be purchased by themselves. They would be expected to purchass



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Fage 3 of 5
this equipment in stages, to the extent that their resources permitted. This
approach would result in equipping 75S of the irrigable land area from the
start. The above solution is a compromise between the economic desirability
to raise irrigated production as rapidly as possible on the one hand, and the
equ'ty consideration of not subsidizing larger farmers on the other.
7.    In each of the six irrigation schemes, one demonstration tank for trout
farming would be constructed, because trout fingerlings can be obtained easily
in Ecuador. If successful, trout farming could become an important source of
cheap animal protein.
8.    The possibility of including sprinkler irrigation was also considered in
the component fcr rehabilitating existing water courses. However, the
existing complex water rights (often dating back centuries) preclude
substantial rationalization and modification in the conveyance and
distribution patterns. Project investments in this component consist mainly
of improving the intakes and repairing some channel sections. However, on an
experimental basis 15 ha under sprinkler irrigation would be installed in 3
out of the 9 water courses to be reconstructed during the first year. The
experience thus obtained would determine whether or not to continue with this
approach.
9.    The main objective of the flood control subcomponent in the humid
coastal plains would be protection against inundations from the tidal rivers,
to guarantee at least the safety of one rice crop in the entire district
during the principal wet rice growing season between January and May. To the
extent that fresh water is still available in the rivers at the tail end of
the wet season, water would be pumped into the dense drainage network and the
dewatering sluices would be opened during high tide to further supply water
inside the embanked districts. The responsibility for providing secondary low
lift pumping from the drains would be left to the farmers. Many already
possess small-low lift pumps so that this approach would not be new. The
available water and storage capacity are insufficient to supply a second rice
crop over the entire area and a rotation of three rice harvests every two
years is foreseen for each farmer. To the extent possible, the second crop
should be different from rice, to permit a larger irrigated area with the
limited water iesources. Earliest sowing of the first rice crop is
recommended, because the sooner the second crop can be sown, the more water
would still be available. Lack of water precludes maintaining a crop from
October until late December.
10. The implementation of this component would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS) through its Undersecretariat of Rural
Development (SSDR). The civil works would be built by contractors hired by
MBS based on tender documents accepted by the Bank. The Instituto Ecuatoriano
de Recursos Hidr&ulicos (INERHI) would assist MBS (since it is the national
irrigation authority) to prepare technical aspects of tender documents and to
supervise the construction. INERHI, under agreement with MBS, would also be
in charge of operation and maintenance (O&M) of the schemes during the early
years of operation, with the following exceptions:
(a)   Tabacundo: Fundaci6n Brethren v Unida (FBU) under
agraement with MBS would be in charge of O&M of this
scheme until the water users' organizations were able
to take this responsibility;



- 46 -
Pago 4 of 5
(b)   Cantahus: Contro Andino go Accifn Popular (CAAP) would
be In charge of O&I, also under agreement with MBS,
during the early years of operation. In both cases
theQ are vell established end capable NGOs, that have
been working in these areas for many years and have an
excellent working relationship with the farmers.
11.   The expected evolution of the area under irrigation is presented in
Table 2, for each scheme.
Tabb 2: Aunidor Inisktlon Dudw thc ImDhmenon PEdgd
(hal
SCHEME      1991/92 1992/93 1M93/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98
1. Espejo-Nfra                -    595   764   764   764   764
2. Tabscurdo          -      600   950  1,345  1,715  1,715  1.715
3. Cangahua           -      370  1,000  1,800  2,400  3,000  3,000
6. Alimis-Cana l18jo  -       -    300   500  1,100  1,100  1,100
5. Alumls-Canal Norte  -     400   900   960   960   960   960
6. Santa Isabel       --    300  1.100  1,490  1,490  1.490
7. La Herranura     1,330  1,330  1.330  2,770  3,680  3,680  3.680
8. PuLa-JIguaL       3,650  3,650  4,150  4,650  5,170  5,170  5,170
9. Water Courses      950  2,800  4,150  5,450  6,750  8,080  8,080
TOTAL             5,930  9,150  13,675  19,339  25,029  25,959  25,959
B.    COST RECOVERY AND TRAINING
12.   According to the Water Law of 1972, INERHI is in charge of establishing
and collecting water tariffs from the farmers to recover O&M costs and
investment. Each year new tariffs are established. They consist of a basic
fixed tariff (payable whether farmers irrigate or not), plus a variable part
which depends on the length of the irrigation season and on the size of the
water gift in liters per second per hectare. The recovery of the investment
portion is based on an interest-free repayment over 50 or 75 years. depending
on farm size, and paid through the fixed portion of the tariff. With high
rates of inflation, such repayment is meaningless, even if it were to be
recovered. The variable portion of the tariff is supposed to cover O&m costs.
In reality only a small fraction of either tariff is recovered and lack of
funds for O&N is typical. Scarcity of funds for O&M represents a far greater
threat to the safogarding of the public Lnvestment than the insignificant
recovery of the investment cost.
13.   It is not viable for the GOE to remain responsible for the O&M of the
schemes for ever, given its poor cost recovery record and hlgh overhead costs.
it was estimated during appraisal that O&M costs would amount to US$20 per
hectare per year for the sprinkler districts and to US$40/ha/yr for the two
rlce distrLets that requir pumping. Durlng negotiations, agreement was
reached with C00 to bill and collect yearly increasing percentages of the



- 47 -
ANNEXI
Page 5 of 5
actual O&M costs following a fixed schedule. Disbursements would be suspended
for a district not meeting its schedule. This would follow procedures similar
to those established for the Colombian Second Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project, Loan 2667-c.  The loan would finance O&M costs on a declining basis,
compensating for the increasing level of water tariffs to be paid by the
users. O&M costs would be fully covered through collection of water tariffs
by the end of the project implementation period.
14. The project foresees training of the beneficiaries to assume increasing
responsibility in the administration of their districts through the
establishment of water user associations, which will eventually assume the
responsibility of operating the districts, once the works have been completed
and a reliable service has been put in place. Establishment of the water user
associations and of accounting systems that determine the actual costs of the
individual district's O&M (and hence of the tariffs required to cover them) is
one of the two main tasks of the irrigation training unit foreseen under the
project.
15.  An irrigation training unit would be establisktd under the project,
consisting of a coordlnator, assistant and secretary in Quito, and, in each of
the eight districts, one training officer plus one secretary/bookkeeper, all
for a period of seven years. The project would also provide training to the
training unit's officers through an agreement with a sister organization, the
Instituto Colombiano de Hidroloala. Meteorolocla v Adecuaci6n de Tierras,
(HIMAT)- HIMAT has successfully transferred the management of the first three
(of a series of ten) public irrigation districts to water users associations.
For this purpose, HIMAT has developed a long range training program for
farmers and water user associations and the intention is to copy the Colombian
experience in Ecuador. The details of the training program with HIMAT are
indicated in the Irrigation and Flood Control working document available in
the Project File.
16. Besides establishing water users associations and proper accounting
systems, the second and equally iLportant task for this training unit would be
to work together with local research staff and extensionists to assist farmers
in changing their traditional cropping patterns into more remunerative ones
with irrigation. This requires a long-term presence for confidence building
and demonstration andt therefore, the presence of the training groups in the
districts is foreseen for seven years. Proper selection of training unit
staff with agricultural extension background, and permanency in the area, is
more important than employing large numbers with frequent turnovers.
17. To ensure an early start with the training program and the establishment
of water users associations and their accounting systems, agreements, between
GOE and the Bank, were reached at negotiations for the following dated
covenantss (a) establishment of the irrLgation training unit and participation
of its first group of three members in the HIMAT training program by October
1, 1991 (b) legal establishment of the eight water user associations by
August 1, 1993t and (c) establishment of an accounting system for O&M in each
of the eight districts by August 1, 1993.



- 48 -
ANX 2
Page 1 of 7
ECUADOR
BURAL D!VELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads Component
Obiectives
1.        The objective of the rural roads component of the proposed project
is to ensure all-year-round access to the twelve selected rural development
areas with the aim of avoiding losses of agricultural products, reducing
transport costs and easing marketing, as well as permitting continuous access
for technical assistance and social services.
2.        The road component would have three main subcomponents: (a) road
improvement; (b) construction of new sections; and (c) road maintenance.
Criteria for Selection of Roads
3.        After a careful analysis of the requirements of each project area
and of the road network within and around them, MBS selected candidate roads
applying the following criteria:
(a) assign maximum priority to improvement of existing roads,
particularly to conversion of dry-weather roads to all-weather road
standards;
(b) include construction of new road sections only where
absolutely necessary to link existing roads or to provide
important new access;
(c) select the roads most likely to provide lowest cost
solutions for linking production areas with existing
primary, secondary or tertiary roads; and
(d) provide selected works on secondary or tertiary roads,
urgently needed to ensure access to production areas and
not included in programs of regional or national road
authorities.
Design Criteria
4.        To ensure minimum cost, most roads are designed as Class 4 roads of
the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) technical specifications for rural roads:
design speed 30 km/h; minimum radius of curvature 30m; maximum gradient 10%;
road width 4m; side-ditch width mlm widening for passing, two meters in lOm
length with 12m transition at both ends, distributed every 250m in mountainous
and every 300 m in flat terrain; all-weather riding surface of hand-laid stone
in the mountains and of selected river-run gravel in the lowlands; and lining
of side-ditches with more than 4% gradient, or through erosionable soils, with
hand-laid stones in the mountains and concrete in the lowlands. Culverts to
be build with concrete or corrugated steel pipes. In exceptional cases,



- 49 -ANE2
Page 2 of 7
design speed can be reduced to 25 km/h, and radius of curvature to 16m, and
gradients can be increased to 14% in short stretches.
5.        Some roads with higher traffic would be built or improved  -, Class 5
standards with similar specifications, but 6m road width, without widening for
passing.
Studies Performed
6.        The Undersecretariat of Rural Development (SSDR) of MBS hired,
through IICA, consultants to make a first selection of roads, which was later
reviewed by MBS and by the pre-appraisal mission. In this selection, cost
estimates were based on estimated work quantities per Km. of road and
standard unit prices determined by MOP for its own studies. SSDR thus
prepared a core program for improvement or construction of 71 roads in the
12 areas totalling 793 km. of which 91 km correspond to sections to be
constructed and 702 km. to sections to be improved (Table 1). Total baseline
cost of this road program adds up to US$21.5 million. Final engineering for
54 roads totalling 588 km. are being prepared and well advanced with financing
under Loan 1991-BC. Engineering for the remaining 17 roads totalling 205 km.
has been also contracted and is expected to be completed by July/August, 1991.
These engineering studies, costing approximately US$350,000, would be
considered eligible for retroactive financing under the proposed loan.
7.        In addition to expenditures for road studies and works execution
totalling US$21.9 million, the road component would also finance road
maintenance expenditures for US$1.6 million and administration and supervision
costs for US$1.1 million for a total road component cost of US$24.5 million,
not including physical contingencies.
Execution of Road Works
8.        SSDR is planning to carry out roads construction and improvement as
follows:
(a) excavation for culverts and side-ditches, hand-laid stone
surfaces and stone-lining of side-ditches would be
contracted with local communities, farmers' organizations
or local contractors;
(b) construction of culverts, small bridges and concrete
lining of side ditches would be contracted with small
local (regional) contractors;
(c) earth-moving and gravel surfaces would be contracted with
local/regional contractors or with the corresponding
provincial council; and
(d) overall execution of large works or of smaller works not
feasible to be contracted through the above procedures,
would be contracted out through competitive bidding.
9.        Technical guidance and supervision of works would be carried out by
specialized engineers in SSDR, by the eight regional resident engineers of
SSDR, and, if needed, by hired consultants. MBS would submit to the Bank
sample bidding and/or contract documents for all the above described



- 50 -
ANNIX 2
Page 3 of 7
procedures. With the object've of me Alng access to specific priority areas
early in project implementation, SSDR La planning advanced execution of 19
roads totalling 168 km and costing about US$4.0 million. SSDR is preparing
the required bidding documents (some already presented to the Bank) and has
requested retroactive financing of US$4 million to allow early initiation of
works execution.
Road Maintenance
10.       SSDR is planning to carry out road maintenance as follows:
(a) Routine maintenance including right-of-way clearing, cleaning of
culverts and side-ditches and maintenance of hand-laid stone
surfaces stone-lining of side-ditches, spot-regraveling, and minor
repair of culverts and bridges would be contracted: (i) on an annual
basis with road men who would each be responsible for routine
maintenance of a 5 km length of road; or (ii) with local communities
which would contribute labor under the traditional voluntary service
form used in the mountain regions called "mingas. Materials
required for routine maintenance such as stones for pavement repair,
gravel for spot-regraveling and lumber or cement for bridges and
culverts would be provided by the same agency responsible for
periodic maintenance.
(b) Periodic Maintenance including grading of gravel surfaces,
regraveling, major repair of culverts and bridges and
eventual major emergency repairs would be contracted with
private contractors or provincial/municipal councils.
11        Maintenance operations would be programmed, supervised and monitored
by engineers in SSDR and in the regions. Road maintenance expenditures would
be financed under the project and covered by the loan on a declining basis
according to Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement. However, SSDR would be fully
responsible for the administration of maintenance only during the first six
years of project implementation. After the sixth year it would transfer the
responsibility for maintenance to the provincial councils. The agreements to
be signed with the provincial councils to this effect would provide financing
to the councils to cover maintenance expenditures during the rest of the
project. Assurances were obtained from GOB during negotiations that the
Government would provide adequate financing of road maintenance expendltures,
through the Sectoral Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional, FODESEC)
or a similar mechanism not requiring annual budgetary allocations, to ensure
proper road maintenance after December 31. 1997.
Environmental ImDact
12.      Agreement was reached during appraisal on recommendations prepared
by SSDR on avoidance of environmental risks to be complied with during design
and construction of the project roads. It was also agreed that SSDR would
prepare a manual on environmental impact of roads to be sent to the Bank for
review.
Trainino Reauirements
13.       Satisfactory execution of the road component would require training
of the SSDR regional resident engineers in the following subjects:



- 51 -
Page 4 of 7
(a)  superviLion of englneerLng studLesF
(b) technLcal guldance of local farmers and communlties for
cost-effective executlon of road constructlon and
maLatenance works to be entrusted to thm; and
(c) supervlslon and monltoring of constructlon and maLntenance
executed by the provLncLal counclls and by contractors.
14.       A special traLnLng effort should be devoted to the tralnlng of local
farmers and communltles in adeqate, efficient and cost-effectlve execution of
road constructlon and malntenance works.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVEZLOPEK PROJECT
Table 1: Rural Roads COUDOnent
Reions. Areas and Roads                      Lenath of Roads (Kai         Total
Road                                       Improve-  Construc-             Cost
Nimuber    Road Name                         Manta     _gg.**  Iotal    US8000
RIGHLAUDS                                     352.0       2.6    354.6    7184.8
Espeio-Kira                                    98.9       2.6    101.5    2287.3
EM1      Estacion Carchi-Tercer Paso           17.4       2.6     20.0      622.8
EM4      Empedcadillo-ElMilagro                 1.5       -         1.5      20.1
EM6      Mira-Hato-Piequera Alto               13.1       -       13.1      110.9
EW6'     Ramal Mira-Pueblo Viejo                0.8       -        0.8       22.3
E37      La Libertad-San Freco-Guano           15.0       -       15.0      384.8
£3M8     Ingueza-Mortifial                      3.1       -        3.1       71.9
3M9      Sanjuan-Gualchas-Las Juntas           17.8       -       17.8      398.0
E19'     Ramal Gualchan-El Carmen               6.2       -        6.2      144.0
EM10     Palo Blanco-San Isidro                19.5       -       19.5      412.0
23Ml1    Guadual-Corazon Nuevo Mundo  *         4.5       -        4.5      100.5
Sierra Norte de Pichincha                      96.2               96.2    1810.4
SPI      Espiga de Oro-Quinche                 19.3       -       19.3      431.5
SP2'     Bola del Mundo-Larcachaca             18.8       -       18.8      261.1
SP2      San Antoni¢-Carrera-Empalme            5.6       -        5.6      105.2
sP3      Jerusalem-Malchingui                  11.0       -       11.0      249.1
8P4      Cajambe-Olmedo-Pesillo                21.3       -       21.3      422.9
sP6      Tabacundo-San Joe6-Panamericana       20.2       -       20.2      340.6
Tanicuchi-Tocaso - Pastocalle                 100.7              100.7    2067.4
TTP2     Tocazo-San Antonio-Chilla Grande    10.1         -       10.1      329.9
TTP4     Cerro Azul-Manzano-Pongo              13.3       -       13.3      267.1
TTPS     Canchagua Grande-San Bartolo          18.6       -       18.6      364.5
TTP6     Tocazo-San Bartolo-Yanahurco          15.3       -       15.3      318.0
TTP7     Sauquiuill-Cochapamba-Jatunera        18.6       -       16.6      395.1
TTP8     Libertad-Teneria-Pasto Alto           15.3       -       15.3      206.3
TTP9     Pasto Alto-San Bartolomf-Boliche       7.5       -        7.5      143.1
TTP9'    Ramal Pastocalle-Boliche               2.0       -        2.0       43.4
Guano                                          56.2               56.2    1019.7
G1       Juntas-San Vicente De Igualata        10.3       -       10.3      153.4
G1...   Ramal a San Isidro                      1.5       -        1.5       29.5
G2       Guano-Asaco Grande                     7.7       -        7.7      151.0
G3       Chuve-Sanjose de Igualata              3.0       -        3.0       42.8
G3'      Ramal a Ilapo                          3.1       -        3.1       63.9
G5       Iscornullo-Chazo -La Providencia      17.4       -       17.4      345.5
06       Chiboa-Santa Rosa de Cunillo          11.3       -       11.3      198.6
G6'      Ramal. salida de Chibea                1.9       -         1.9      35.0
*Roads with studies to be completed by mid-1991.



- 53 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
(Continuation of Table 1)
SLOPES                                     139.3   54.6         193.9      6669.3
Panoua                                      5A    17.1           75.9      2156.1
P1       Guapara-Jefis del Gran Poder       10.3    -            10.3       185.0
P1'      La Providencia-La Union             5.0    -             5.0        90.0
P3       Jalligua Alto-Calope de Gallido  19.5    -              19.5       446.0
P4       Sillagua Guaparita-San Ram6n   *  2.5    5.0              7.6      312.0
P5       El Chazo-Pinllupata                13.0    -             13.0      178.5
P6       Quispe Chico-Mindina             *  -      12.0         12.0       761.6
P7       Corazon-Ram6n Campana               8.5    -             8.5       183.0
racundo vla                                65.7    =            65.7      2235.3
FV2      El Coraz6n Mis&n                   16.0    -            16.0       398.5
FV3      Facundo Vela-San Luis de Pamil * 42.2    -              42.2      1678.2
FV4      La Horqueta-Velasco Ibarra          7.5    -             7.5       158.6
Santa Isabel                                   8 37.5            52.3      2277.9
sil      Shagli-Huertas                   *  -       8.0          8.0       284.7
sI2      Pucara-Patococha                 *  4.5    -             4.5        95.5
SI3      Torcapa-Canal San Frsco             3.4    1.8           5.2       117.5
si4      Rio Sn Frsco-Sn Ant.de Nugro        6.9    -             6.9       155.7
SI5      Huertas-Pucar&                   *  -      27.7         27.7      1624.5
DRY COAST                                  179.5   28.3         207.8      6666.2
JiviiaDa                                    29-3   21.3         100.6      3204.5
J2       Maldonado-El Naranjal               9.5    -             9.5       303.8
?3       Rio Grande-Comuna Sucre             6.5    -             6.5       388.3
J4       Buenos Aires-Comuna Sucre        *  5.0    -             5.0        40.0
J4'      El Anegado-Buenos Aires             4.4    -             4.4        35.1
J5       Guarando-Piflas de Julcuy          17.9    -             17.9      411.9
J5'      Ramal a Pan y Agua                  2.5    -             2.5        84.4
J6       San Bembe-Julcuy                 *  6.0    -             6.0       107.8
J8       Luz Amada-San Pedro                 3.3    6.7           6.7       263.2
JIO      Choconcha-San Vicente            *  4.0   14.6          18.6       690.5
Jill     Vargas Torres-LaUnion            *  7.3    -             7.3       362.6
J12      Jipijapa-Pacheco                 * 12.9                 12.9       516.9
Pai&n                                      100.2    7.2         107.2      3461.7
PJl      Leonidas Plaza-Lazcano             11.5    7.0          18.5       477.6
PJ2      Camposano-Tierra Amarilla        *  4.6    -             4.6       143.2
PJ3      Pajan-El Encuentro               *  8.4    -             8.4       428.8
PJ3p     El Encuentro-Lazcano               34.3    -            34.3      1158.9
PJ4      Tierra Amarilla-Guale            * 25.5    -            25.5       808.8
PJ4'     San Agustin-Sota Grande             2.5    -             2.5        95.8
PJ5      Camposano-El Lim6n               *  4.4    -             4.4       192.4
PJ5'     E1 Lim6n-San Andr6u                 9.0    -             9.0       156.2
* Roads with studies to be completed by mid-1991.



- 54-                      NMLZ 2
Page 7 of 7
(Continuation of Table 1)
HUMID COAST                                3.3 -a  L      u    36.        94.0
Plazas de Riueir62                                  5.0         3.LA      831.0
PH1      El Progreso-Baba                  10.0    5.0          15.0      432.0
PH2      Ant.Sotomayor-Low Ixplotados       8.4    -             8.4       199.5
PH3      Ant.Sotomayor-Sagat*la             4.4    -             4.4      104.5
PH3      Bagetela-Coop.Primero San Jos6    4.0    -              4.0       95.0
San Pedro de Dau.1                          4.5                  4.5      113.0
Di       Carretera a Daule-Guarual        *         4.5       -             4.5
113.0
ROAD IMPROVUMNT AND CONSTRUCTION          702.1   90.5         792.6    21464.30
STUDIES                                                                   350.00
ROAD MAINTENANCE                                                         1592.10
SUBTOTAL                                                                23406.40
ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION                                            1137.20
PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGUNCIUS                                          1582.70
TOTAL ROADS PROGRAM                                                     26126.30
*Roads with studies to be complt;ted by mid-1991.



- 55 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENT
Introduction
1.        The areas of influence of the proposed project are presently
affected, in varying degrees, by soil erosion, river water pollution and loss
of forest to expansion of cropping area. These areas have been traditionally
under agriculture for a long time. There are no outstanding land tenure
problems, nor are there conflicts involving national parks or protected
conservation units. The 12 areas selected for project implementation
represent four geographical regions with diverse environmental
characteristics.
2.        Three areas (Plavas de Higuer6n, Tres Postes and San Pedro de Daule)
are located in the wet tropics region which is part of the Lower Guayas River
Basin. This is an area with relatively flat topography and low gradient
subject to periodic flooding. The soils and climate are suitable for the
production of a variety of crops including bananas, coffee, cacao, maize,
rice, sugarcane and livestock products. It is estimated that at present about
84Z of the farmers in the area are smallholders with less than 20 ha.
Production systems constitute labor-intensive operations using a low level of
inputs and inadequate farm management practices. The risk of annual flooding
is the most important limitation to sustained crop production. Water
contamination is a serious problem affecting most of the rivers in the area.
The main sources of pollution ares (a) untreated sewerage and solid waste from
urban centers; (b) industrial pollutants; and (c) run-off containing
agrochemical residues from farm fields and effluent from slaughterhouses.
3.        Two areas, Ji2ijava and PaMn, are located in a transition region of
wet and dry tropics.   Most of the soils of the area correspond to Classes VI
and VII which limit agricultural production. The main crops are coffee and
bananas which are grown mostly for export (representing about 322 and 312 of
the national output respectively), and rice, cotton and african oil palm.
About 60S of the land has serious problems of erosion.
4.        In the highlands region between the northern border with Colombia
and Quito are located the Es2eio-Nira and Sierra Norte de Pichincha areas.
These areas include part of the provinces of Carchi and Imbabura. The area is
known for its diversity of microclimates ranging from dry temperate to humid
tropical. A large proportion of the soils in the area corresponds to Classes
VII and VIII (692 in Espejo-Mira and 53Z in Sierra Norte de Pichincha), 3S of
Class It while the rest corresponds to Classes 11,111, and IV. The most
important agricultural products are cereals, potatoes, corn, fruits,
vegetables, livestock (dairy products) and flowers. The main environmental
problem is pollution (E. Coli) of river waters from untreated urban sewage.
This in turn affects the health of the population and -.he safety of some
agricultural products such as irrigated vegetables.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
5.         The following areas are also situated in the highlands region:
Guano and the group Tanicuchi-Toacaso-Pastocalle (TTP), all located at
altitudes ranging between 2,000 and 2,500 meters. About 5% of the soils
correspond to Classes I and II, 46% to Classes III and IV and the rest to
Classes VI, VII, and VIII. The main agricultural crops are potatoes, wheat,
and corn in the higher altitudes, and fruit trees and vegetable in the lower
plains. Milk production and cheese manufacturing are also important. As in
the other areas, pollution of river water is reportedly the main problem
affecting the quality of irrigated crops.
6.        Located at the foot of the northern Andean range, on the western
slopes toward the lower Guayas river watershed, are the Facundo Vela, Panaua
and Santa Isabel areas. About 55% of the soils are Classes VI and VII with
severe limitations for crop production. The main crops are corn, vegetables,
beans and potatoes in the higher altitude areas, and pastures, coffee, african
oil palm and sugar cane in the lower valleys. Soil erosion effects about 40%
to 69% of the land area and constitutes the main environmental problem. Only
about 35% of the population has access to piped water and there are growing
pollution problems resulting from lack of solid-waste disposal facilities.
Current Institutional and Legal Framework
7.        The responsibility for onvironmental protection in the country is
thinly spread over a number of public sector entities. Out of about
10 sectoral ministries only three (Health, Mines/Energy and Agriculture) have
an environmental unit (except for Health the other two are Subsecretariats).
However, all three have limited operational capacity because of inadequate
technical and financial resources. Moreover, there is considerable
overlapping of functions among official entities which results in unresolved
conflicts of responsibilities. For instance, while the Ministry of Health is
in charge of dealing with water pollution problems in urban locations it has
no jurisdiction over contamination of bodies of water (under the umbrella of
the Ministry of Agriculture) which are the source of urban water systems. By
the same token while the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for protection
and management of forests it has little control over deforestation of upper
watersheds which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy. This state of affairs makes environmental protection efforts
cumbersome, time-consuming and ineffective.
8.        The ineffectiveness of the institutional framework is further
exacerbated by the weakness of the existing legislation for environmental
protection. The legal framework is based on a national environmental law
enacted in 1976 (Ley Para la Prevenci6n v Control Ambiental - Decreto 374)
and heavily oriented toward pollution control while ignoring, to a large
extent, natural resource management issues. The law has remain largely
unenforced because: (a) the country does not have a cent:al entity
specifically responsible for environmental protection; (b) without a central
enforcing unit the required set of norms and regulations were never drafted;
and (c) in the absence of specific regulations sectoral ministries resorted to
establishing their own directives and ordinances without taking into account
inter-institutional coordination.
9.        The GOE has asked for Bank assistance to deal with the inadequacy of
the current legal and institutional framework. As a result, an environmental
technical assistance project is currently under preparation. The project



- 57 -
AEX 3
Page 3 of 6
would place particular emphasis on strengthening the capacity of existing
environmental units and on establishing new ones where needed. The project
would also foster the enactment of norms and their enforcement. With the
auspices of the Bank a new environmental law has already been drafted and will
be submitted by the GOE to the Congress for approval. One of the features of
the new law is the creation of an Environmental Superintendency responsible,
among other things, for establishing and enforcing regulations, and for
advising the GOE on environmental policy and strategy.
Environmental Impact Review (EIR)
10.       In compliance with the Bank's environmental requirements, the GOE
commissioned the preparation of An Environmental Impact Review of the
activities to be implemented under the proposed project. The review was
carried out by a team of experts assembled by IICA's Resident Office in Quito.
At the request of IICA the Bank reviewed the terms of reference for the study
as well as the composition of the team of experts. Given the extensive and
varied geographical area of implementation of the proposed project (12 rural
development areas within four different agroecological regions) and in view of
its scope (limited to areas that have traditionally been under agricultural
production) and description (completion and/or rehabilitation of existing
civil works), it was agreed at the outset that the study would be a diagnosis
of potential environmental consequences rather than a full impact assessment
Rer se.
11.       In May 1990, a meeting with the participation of relevant NGOs, GOE
officials and Bank staff, was organized by the Undersecretariat of Rural
Development (SSDR) of the Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS). The main purpose
of the meeting was to inform NGOs'representatives of the objectives of the
project, ask their comments on the draft TORs of the environmental study, and
request their input during its preparation. During the preparation of the
study Bank missions and local NGOs followed up its progress and provided
assistance to the team as needed.
Summary of EIR Findings and Recommendations
12.       The review was based on PRONADER's project preparation documents,
and on field assessments and interviews carried out by members of the
environmental team. To determine potential impacts that could result from the
project activities four of the proposed 12 areas, each representing an
agroecological zone, were selected as typical models. With certain
exceptions, recommendations made for the selected areas (Sierra Norte de
Pichincha, Tres Postes, Paj&n and Facundo Vela) are applicable to the other
eight areas. (Details of the EIR are found in the report "Estudio de
Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental. PRONADER Fase I. Octubre 1990" available in
the Project File).
13.       In the analysis of potential impacts emphasis was given to the
following components: irrigation/drainage, flood control, rural roads, water
reservoirs, forestry and agricultural production. Sixty-four project actions
and seventy-four variables were identified. These were organized following a
Leopold Matrix under eight premisest impact/no impact; positive/negative
effect; and reversible/irreversible damage. Potential negative impacts were
further classified in two groups: (a) those that could be anticipated to occur



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
during the construction period of civil works; and (b) and those expected
during project implementation.
14.       During construction there would be three potential negative impacts
common to the components dealing with construction of civil works
(irrigation/drainage, flood control, water reservoirs and rural roads):
temporary loss of vegetative cover, removal/shifting of top soil, and
modification of water courses. The first two impacts can be considered
temporary and/or reversible. The degree and type of impact of altering water
courses would depend on the purpose of the particular action and on the
corrective measures to be taken during the implementation stage of the
project. Under the irrigation/drainage and flood control components alignment
and waterproofing of irrigation canals would improve overall water usage
efficiency. However, water reservoirs built upstream could affect quantity
-nd quality of water for downstream users.
15.       The main environmental concerns during implementation would be
potential contamination of water from increased use of agrochemicals, water
deficit resulting from augmented demand in relation to existing supply,
increased soil erosion resulting from continuous annual cropping, and water
contamination of reservoirs (with animal/human waste) from improper use and
poor management.
16.       For every potential negative impact specific preventive and/or
mitigating measures have been proposed. In general, actions proposed are
related to improved agricultural production practices to be fostered under the
project. In relation to the use of pesticides it is recommended to eliminate
from PRONADER's list of pesticides those that have been banned in other
countries such as Furadan, Aldrin and Paraquat. In addition, it is
recommended that a monitoring system be established to determine the presence
of pesticide residue and other chemicals in irrigation and drainage water.
For particular project activities, i.e construction of tunnels for small
irrigation systems (such as the Cangahua subproject) about which available
information was found to be insufficient or inadequate to predict potential
consequences, it is recommended that specific environmental impact studies be
required before the Bank and the GOB authorize their construction.
17.       Finally, the study identified one existing national park (Parque
Nacional Machalilla) and two proposed reserved areas (Monumento Natural El
Angel and Area Nacional de Recreaci6n Noianda) located in the vicinity of the
project area, and proposed activities that could be financed by the project.
Further analysis and discussion with the GOE lead to the conclusion that,
except for El Angel, the other two conservation units are not located within
the project area of influence. Project activities are not expected to affect
them directly or indirectly in any way.
18.       The situation is different for EL Angel, which is located within the
aroe of influence of the Espejo-Mira area. The area is reported to have
important watersheds which provide water for drinking and for irrigation to
small towns situated below it. Although reportedly access to existing primary
forest is difficult, the main threat would be from project beneficiaries
harvesting trees for firewood. El Antel is one of a network of proposed areas
for which a well-known NGO, Fundaci6n Natura, has been trying to obtain
official reserve status from the GOE. The proposed project would include:
(a) preparation of its management plan; (b) physical demarcation of the area



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Pogo 5 of 6
including the construction of small administrative facilities; and
(c) educational and technical assistance programs to involve existing
communities in the protection of the area.
19.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained regarding the
presentation of Terms of Reference, cost estimates and a time schedule for the
preparation of this management plan before December 31, 1991. Furthermore,
the management plan for the reserve would be completed not later than December
31, 1992, which would be included in the Loan Agreement as a dated covenant.
Snvironmental Coordinating Unit
20.         The need to provide intensive environmental supervision during the
execution stage is highlighted by the EIR study. For this purpose it proposed
the creation of an environmental unit to make sure environmental protection
guidelines are introduced routinely during implementation. In this endeavor,
this unit yould need to establish an effective coordinating mechanism with all
the institutions participating in project implementation.
21.       Following this recommendation, it vas agreed with the C0O  that the
project would support the establishment and operation of an environmental unit
inside the Undersecretariat of Rural development (SSDR). This unit, Unidad
del Medio Ambient. (UNA), would have the following functions and
responsibilities:
(a)    revise and adjust some proposed project activities based on
the findings of the environmental impact review;
(b)    identify and carry out (or supervise the implementation of)
complementary environmental studies required;
(c)    translate all recommendations into an environmentally
sound strategy, as well aS a set of operational
instructions for the implementation of the project, wfth
the objective of minimizing possible negative impacts;
(d)    help the M&E unit to establish mechanisms to control and
measure the environmental impacts of the project;
(e)    participate, with the training unit of SSDR, in training
of staff and beneficiaries in environmental aspects;
(f)    coordinate activities and studies with other
institutions (both public and private), as well as NGOs
dealing with this area.
22.        The basic staff needed for this unit (UMA) would include three
specialists to cover different areas of environmental concerns (a) irrigation,
civil works and water management; (b) natural resource management and
conservation; and (c) socio-economic aspects. These specialists would form
the permanent team of the UMA and they would receive substantial support from
specialists financed through the technical assistance component. This
assistance would include: a long-term expert on a permanent basis
(5 msn/yeare); and short-term consultants to be able to respond to urgent
needs and specific problems to be identify during implementation (60 man-
.A., 



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
Monitorint and Evaluation
23.       These activities would be carried by staff of the  M&E unit in
close coordination with PRONADER's environmental unit. In addition, the
project would seek collaboration and assistance from concerned NGOs especially
from those that participated during the preparation of the environmental
review. Key indicators would include those that would be established for each
of the 12 areas under each component. However, water quality and usage of
pesticides would receive particular follow-up.
Proposed Dated Covenants
24.       The following covenants were agreed with COE at negotiations:
(a) establishment of an environmental coordinating unit (UMA) with
responsibilities and staff acceptable to the Bank, before December 31, 1991;
(b) preparation of terms of reference, cost estimates and a timetable, all
satisfactory to the Bank, for the preparation of the action plan for the
management of the Monumento Natural El Angel, no later than December 31, 1991;
and (c) preparation of a Management Plan for El Angel, no later than
December 31, 1992.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
ECUJADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development Component
Institutional Caoacitv Analysis
1.        The project preparation process included an analysis of the
institutional caRacitY available to implement the GOE's new rural development
policy. This analysis was carried out by IICA consultants with guidance from
Bank staff, using the Institutional Capacity Analysis System (ICAS). Based on
project components' objectives and proposed strategies and resources that
would be made available through the project, work programs were defined and
disaggregated into tasks to describe how the sharing of responsibilities would
work and what every implementing entity would do to achieve its specific
objectives. Then, a review of involved agencies' institutional capacity to
implement such work programs helped identify institutional capacity gaps
(1CGs) from the legal, inter-institutional, organizational, personnel policy
and skills viewpoints. A consolidated list of ICGs, briefly described below
(a fully detailed list of ICGs can be found in the corresponding working
paper), was used as a basis for the design and preparation of the
project-supported institutional development component (PSIDC).
2.        The sectoral legislation does not provide a clear definition of
institutional responsibilities for all rural development-related agencies.
Sub-sectoral legislation is not necessarily in harmony with the general
legislation, which make the rules of the game somewhat confusing. More
specific ICGS from the legal viewpoint include problems common to all sectors:
(a) cumbersome procurement rules that entail considerable delays that would
affect policy/project implementation; (b) for some implementing entities
(mainly farmers' groups and associations), lack of a legal charter and
therefore inability to spend funds allocated to them or own new project
infrastructure that they are supposed to operate (marketing infrastructure in
particular); (c) cumbersome legal procedures for hiring new staff in the
public sector; (d) confusing ruling for using forestry areas (IERAC);
(e) unclear legislation for farmers' organizations for irrigation (INHERI);
(f) insufficient flexibility for credit use by farmers' organizations,
cooperatives and NGOs; (g) many areas have land tenure problems, making it
difficult to expand crops and increase efficiency; and (h) unclear conditions
of ellgibility for individual farmers and farmers' organizations for
institutional credit use.
3.        Inter-institutional ralationshios as they exist, were not specially
meant to support an integrated approach to rural development. Unclear
distribution of responsibilities, lack of specific agreements among
implementing entities that have common tasks under the proposed project, end
lack of common understanding on the way targot populations should be
approached and helped to become full beneficiaries of project impacts, are
major ICGe. More specific inter-institutional relationships ICGo include:
(a) lack of linkage between planning, research and extension; (b) undefined
relationships network among agriculture services agencies
(SAGIBNF/CAAP/FBU/CESA/INHERI and farmers' organizations). A new inter-
institutional relationship network is now proposed to address this situation
(see Chart 1).  From the viewpoint of int-rnal organization and distribution



- 62 -
A LX 4
Page 2 of 7
of function, many severe ICGs have been identified. In general,
organizational structures and procedures are obsolete and could not support a
modern approach to integrated rural development. More specific ICGs lnclude:
weak administrative/financial functions structuro; weak or non-existing
monitoring and evaluation functions; and inadequate information systems.
4.        Personnel policies do not allow for hiring, firing or for
motivating competent staff to the point which is implicit in the modernization
policy under consideration. In some key areas, staff numbers are notoriously
insufficient such as in the legal departments of most agencies, research and
extension, marketing, small-scale irrigation and environment protection.
Besides, the lack of ad hoc incentives makes it difficult for implementing
agencies to send more staff to the field where they are most needed when
implementing the new rural development policy supported by this project. This
can be illustrated by the example of the lack of technical staff required to
monitor new plantings or the use of innovative farming practices and a lack of
staff for evaluating results of such practices with involved farmers.
5.        Policy and orolect implementing skills are considered inadequate at
virtually all levels of management, professional, technical and beneficiaries.
At the management level, the missing skills include decision-making, personnel
management and organization. At the professional level, most of the following
skills are missing: financial administration, monitoring and evaluation,
farmers' organization, land titling, research and extension, credit schemes,
and in most of the technical fields involved, skills are generally obsolete.
At the technical level, the most critical gaps include skills necessary to
handle contacts and relationships with farmers to entice them to introduce new
technologies and got them well organized. Finally, the great majority of
farmers have not been prepared to receive project benefits efficiently.
Besides not being motivated because of critical lack of information about the
new policy aimed at helping them, their main skill gaps include organization,
modern farming practices, administration, credit, marketing and home
economics.
The Project-Suvoorted Institutional Develogmunt Comnonent (PSIDC)
6.        PSIDC's objective is to help remove or mitigate ICGs identified
against project tasks so as to enhance chances of success and to create
conditions of sustainability of policy/project benefits. Therefore, all
PSIDC's inputs, briefly described below (a more detailed description is
available in the corresponding working paper), are as precisely as possible
related to ICGs identified against each one of the affected tasks. Delivery
of these inputs and their adequate use must help eliminate/mitigate these ICGs
in accordance with a schedule that takes into consideration the dates at which
affected tasks must yield their expected outputs. PSIDC's inputs amount to
about US$5.6 million. They include:
(a)   government's political, administrative and technical decisions that
do not require any specific investment or spending;
(b)   soecialista services to help remove those ICGs that require
specific reviews, studies, or innovative solutions and high-level
management/professional support for new processes; and
(c)   trainins actlvitile to help remove skill gaps identified against
managers', professional and technical staff's and beneficiaries'
tasks.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
7.         Government decisions would help remove most of the legal capacity
Saps such as organizations' legal charter, project Implementation, share of
responsibilities umong various ministries enabling more concerned parties to
enter into, *nd sign agreements, facilitating formal contacts with the
beneficiaries to get them organized and to have access to project benefits,
and aystematization of project coordination meetings and routine work
relationships at the central level. Finally, COE would also initiate and
develop an information campaign to inform all potential beneficiaries of the
existence of the project and ways to qualify to obtain its benefits.
8.         PSIDC includes  42 man/years of international specia'!st assistance
and 121 man/years local professionals for a total cost of about
US$4.8 million. This technical assistance would be used for: (a) research,
validation and technology transfer for ilnnovative aspects of the project;
(b) land tenure regularization and titling programs; (c) monitoring and
evaluation systems, procodures and activities; (d) technical sub-sector-
related activities such as marketing, forestry, credit; (e) administration;
and (f) management and professional training activities. OE would procure
this technical assistance in accordance with Bank policy and would prefer a
consulting firm or an international organization rather than individual
consultants although the hiring of a few such individual consultants is not
precluded.
9.         MBS would be directly responsible for PSIDC and for providing for
the sustainability of PSIDC benefits. A technical cooperation contract would
be procured by MBS to ensure integration of activities and the highest level
of competence and efficiency. Individual hiring would be done in accordance
with Bank policies and procedures for procurement of services as described in
the corresponding guidelines. Terms of reference, identification of potential
candidates and final selection and draft contracts would be regularly cleared
with the Bank. International or local specialists would be assigned positions
within the particular agencies in charge of implementing institutional
development activities for the duration of the contract.
10.        GOE's decisions should result in stimulating beneficiaries'
organizations to get legal charter to accelerate their effective participation
in the project. SSDR would be strengthened using specialist assistance to
organize dissemination campaigns. Computerized systems would be improved and
expanded in accordance with PRONADER requirements both at headquarters and at
the local level. Systems would yield information flows required to prepare
and process contracts with beneficiaries' organizations. Then inter-
institutional relationships and sharing of responsibilities would be further
detailed and the corresponding agreements formally signed (Chart 1).
Implementing entitias' current charter would be updated following PRONADER
requirements such as new working schedules of UTRs and UCAs to fit farmers'
needs. Now internal regulations would establish reporting schedules and
planning activities to provide the regulatory basis to produce POAs and
supervision, monitoring and reporting schemes and follow-up activities. This
would entail updating most of SSDR, UTRs and UCAs operating manuals which
would be done with specialist assistant.
11.        Inter-institutional networks, besides formal agreements and
definition of respective Implementing responsibilities, would include the
obligation to carry out periodic coordination meetings including incentives to
obtain farmers' organizations participation in all stages of the planning and
Implementation process. This is particularly Important at the highest level
of implementing entities' management but should also permeate the professional



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
and technical levels, especially at the field level. Particular attention
would be paid to the strengthening of local coordination mechanisms, very
important for specific functions such as POA integration and consistency, and
monitoring and evaluation. Finally, a permanent dissemination of rules, norms
and procedures should be initiated as soon as possible to ensure progressive
efficient coordination and integration of activities.
12.        Finally, PSIDC also includes training activities to help eliminate
or reduce identified skill gaps as measured against project tasks, for a total
of about US$470,000 for management, professional and technical staff of
implementing agencies. This is in addition to other training activities
included and entirely directed at eliminating beneficiaries' skill gaps, which
amount to US$833,000 for general training and US$1.5 million for training in
irrigation and management of irrigation schemes.
13.        Important training activities are going to be delivered at all
levels from management to beneficiaries. PRONADER is highly innovative in
terms of integration of activities and decentralization of responsibilities.
Managers would have to be trained in modern management techniques and in ways
to develop adequate interinstitutional relationships and better coordination,
before new procedures and ultimately a really new spirit, can reach the field
level.
14.        In the first two years, PSIDC would provide seminars, courses,
field visits and other training activities (a total of 128 activities) for
58 managers, 334 professionals, 123 technical level staff and almost
20,000 PRONADER's beneficiaries. Some other technical level staff
participating in project execution would also have to be trained during this
implementation period. Key objectives and performance indicators for this
training program include:
(a)   ensure uniform understanding of technological packages
and production organization approaches that should
prevail in PROMADER's areas;
(b)   ensure information flows that help create increasing
uniformity of practices and principles and an actual
integration of activities at all levels;
(c)   transfer common practice for agriculture extension
through the training of extension agents; and
(d)   transfer sub-project preparation, evaluation,
implementation *nd monitoring practices to the local
levels; this Includes project administration,
accounting, budgeting and control.



ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTER-INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSHIPS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
17 &  8~~17   mio
'm
oF~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Eb~~~~ E4O-*M:m :I,,b
.  He 7.1   t6~~12 d#A=    &2    rl1
low~~~~~~~~ 



- 66 -
AINEX 4
Page 6 of 7
Mhart 1
PUICIOMZ  MlYRGlArC
1.     Dietar la poltica de d earrollo                       15.    Prograar, realizar *agulniento,
rural.                                                       *valusci6n de ojocuci6n y olaborar
*atudios.
2.     Incluir PROADUR on e1 Plan Naielonal
do Dosarrollo.                                       16.    Dirigir ia ejocuei6n do la poUtica do
Participar on seleccl6n de Aros                              adainistracidn y recursoo humanos del
prioritarias pars el dosarrollo                              MS.
rural.
Zvaluar *jocucldn del PRONADU.                       17.    DirLilt y vilbilizar ls oporaci6n do
la actlvidad do apoyo do Plnts
3.     Abrir cuonta especial an d6lroc pars                        Central do ia SSDR a lac UTRe y UCLa.
*amnjo do fondoa do contraparte.
Pagar a torcoroa por sorvclos                        la.    Brindar *poyo t6enico a  UCAs,
prostados a ls SSDR                                          eintldads ejocutoras y bonoficiarlos
Rembolear *1 PORADRI por ogreso.                             a nivol rgtonal.
ofecutado. con recursoc do PROMIDU.                          Capacitar benoficiarlos y acompauar
Abrir cartas do crddito para pago a                          on torrono prococos de autogesti6
provoodores on *I oxtolor.                                   campolna.
Capacitar y hacor osgutimento a UCAs
4.     Dlrigir formulacldn y *jecuci6n                              sobre apllcaci6n y manejo de oiotma
poltlc. estatal an materiel do                               do soguimiento y evaluacidn.
soguridad social.
19.    Coordinar a nival do Area con ias
S.     Coordinar con SSDR ejecucifn do                              intituciones ejocutoras y
PROMADER on * pecto. do apoyo a la                           boneficiLrios la ejocucidn del
mujer zural.                                                proyocto.
Responosbilizsaro do ajacucidn de
6.     Dictar politica do ad.inistrscifn                            POA's.
financiers y organizar ojocucldn y                           Realisar sogulmiento y ovaluacidn a
operseion do la aims on el  IDS.                             nivel do Area.
7 *    Dietar politicas do admisritracidn                    20.    OriLntar la fozmulscidn y *jocutar el
fnafiociors y organizer ojecuciLn y                          compononto Transforencis do
operacL6n do la mims en la 8SDR.                             Tecnologfa Agropecuaria del PRONADEL
8.     Ejecutar polltic. do dosarrollo rural                 21.    (Dirocci6n Nacional do Extonsifn
an conoroncts con polftica. y                                Ag4rcola y TranDforeocia do
orientaciones dad" por Hiniotorio do                         Tecbnoloaga Agropocuaria).
31enatar Social.                                             Ejocutar ol componenta do
transferoncia do tcenologa
9.     Participar an la ejocuci6n do                                agropecuaria del PRONADER.
actividsdcs do apoyo a ls mjor
rwmi, contemplada on e1 PROIIADER.                   22.    Apoyar la ejecucidn del component* do
transforencia do tecnologsa
10.    Organizsr y ejecutar accidn do fndole                        sgropecuari_ ajecutada por *1 NWG.
jurfdics del HIS.
23.    Participar on programscl6n y
11.    Orgdnsar y ejacutar ls eccida de                             ojocuci6n de planes operativoa del
fndolo jurfdica de l  SSDR.                                  componento transferencia da
tacoologps agropecusria on Iross de
12.    Dar dlrectrico. tdenica  y operatives                        deoarrollo rural.
y controlar ojocucidn de diroccl6n de
.oguimiento y ovluscidn y dirocciS6                  24.    Oriontar la fonmacidn y ojocutar e1
do operaciones.                                              components do legasizscidn y tcnencia
Otganzar y dirigir l actividad do                           do la ti4rra del PRORADER.
coordinsci6n luterinatitucionsal al
interior do 1- 35D9.                                 25.    Iweatiga4cdn detallada d  tcononci
do la tierra.
13.    Dirigir la reolizacS6n do *studios y                         Promoci6n logalizscidn.
construccifn do obras do                                     Realisar planimtrfa.
infraostiuctura.                                             Supervisidn do ejocucidn.
14.    DiriSir la roalizacSon de e*tudlos,                   26.    Participar on ls ejocucidn do
conatruccne  y flacalizscidn do obras                        forostacidn y consorvacidn do
de infratructura do l  SSDR.                                 recur s. naturalo  e1 *1 irea de TTP
y do rilgo an San Pedro do Daulo.



- 67 -
ADIZA 
Page 7 of 7
Chart 1
27.    Ijecuter la accldn a nivel de                         39*    Tramitar la aprobacidn de crdditoo
tarranoe                                                     ante ia casa matria.
28.    Ropr eentar a campeolnos individuales                 40.    Selacclonar banaficarlos.
bonaficlarioo del PRONADER.                                  Tramitar crddito. ante sucursales.
Participar en ls identificaci6n y                            Vontanilla do crdito
prlorlsacidn de ncesidedoo.                                  Rouperacldn del Crddito.
Participar on 1 progromicifn do loe
PDA y actividades especfficas.                       41.    Sup rvioar construccl6n obras do
Porticipar an 1 ejecucidn de                                 ri go.
actividadoo det                                              Op.racl6n y  anntonudiento inicial de
-  Forestaciun                                               algunoe distritoe.
-  Construcciln do obras de
Infrastructure.                                  42.    4probaci6n de conceoidn de uso del
-  CrNacSl6n y *ausjo d  FODE1 O.                            agua.
-   aimento de autogestida do                               Organixar juntam do usuarios y
fondoa conmes.                                           distribucifn del rilgo.
-  Participar on transforoncla de
tenelogfa cmo PAC.                               43.    Participaci6  on l capacitaci6n de
-  Part.cipar on *egulmionto y                               loa uuarloo del riego.
evaluaclin de avance del PO&.
44.    Participar an 1  ejecucidn del
29.    Orientar lu fonulici6n y ojecutar el                         proyecto Ste. Isabel on coordlnwcidn
c-ponant- generaci6n y valldaci6n do                        con l  SSDR.
T*cnologfa Agropecuaria del PRORADUt
-  Validar 1 tocnologfa generada                     45.    Apoyar is coordinacida de 1
por 1 laivetigacLdn.                                     ojecucl6n proyecto en drea Sta.
-  Transferir a extensionist   la                            Isabel.
tecnologfa validada.                             46.    Construir obras de Lnfraestructura.
30.     ealisar Ua lavestigacl ia de                                glaborar materiale. de comunicaci6n.
comprobacidn a nivel regional.                               Otorgar servicios de capacitsci6n
puntuale.
31.    Proveor de recurso  a la contraparte                         Realasr eatudlo.
local.
Trdmitar U aprobacl'6n de 1 proform                  47.    EjeCUtar accioneo  de desarroflo
proeupueotaria.                                              comunitario.
Aprobar *ollcitud y autorizar
transferoncLa de fondos.                             48.    Organizsaci6n, promocidn campesina,
produccidn de plintulas on el
32.    Conociniento, andliotl, diocusl6n y                          proyecto Slrra Norte de Pichincha.
sprobacl6n de proforms                                       Zjecutar proy0cto de rlogo
proeupuestaria. lTab-uAdo.
33.    Solleltgr a Banco C ntr l que cubra                   49.    Proiocionar y conducir plantaciones
e1 pago de comisiones de co promlio,                         fors tlos provi tas n el Pc  A de
amortizacioneo  a Interesoa del                                              Pichinch
prdbtmw _ ojocutar componont- de riego de
"Cmsnhuaw.
34.    A.ignacifn de recursos.                               SO.    Kanejar recureoo pars la
35.    Tridtar y otorgar loe crdditoe.                              inplemntaci6n do loa Fondo.
caaposinoe do geotidn: UFODECOO.
36.    Planificacln y evalueci6n do
cr3ito. Op                                                    jecutar la accida a nivcl do
37.    Operaci6n do cr6dito.                                 52.    Ijecutar la accift a nivol de
38.    Cea-1izar recursoe de contrapartida                          terreno.
para *stisfacer noceoidades do
flunaciamlento do beneficiarioe del                  53.    Ejocutar l accift a nivrl do
PnOADnu.                                                     torreno.



ECUAD8t
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACRICULURtAL PROMCTION AN INCOWE UNDER THE PROJECT
Table 1: SUWIARY OF ILLUSTRATlVE FARM MODELS - WITH IRRIGATION
CROPPtNO AREA  (he)           TOTAL INVESTMENTS  (U)             MAL NET BEFTS    USS)
TOTAL                                              INFRA-        INCRE-
(IRRIGATED)  WIOUT    Wl       VINCEASE                  STRIUC-      MENTAL   WITHOUT       Wh      INREASE
MODEL                                   AREA  PROJECT  PROJECT      (M)    ARICULTURE  1URE            CAPITAL   PROJECT   PROJECT        (
No.   REUION/AREA                       a)                 il                                V /                               A
1.      ESPEJO-4MIRA                     1.      1.01      2.66       104          5ss        298          175       899      1,274        226
(1.2)
2.      ESPEJO-NIRA                      4.8     3.00      6.46        so        2,292        295        1,135       762      2,970         323
(4.6)
8.      SIERRA NORTE DE                 4.                                                                 n
PICHDNOCA-CANGAWJ                2.6     1.59     2.86         so        1,187       263           779     1,386      8,469        149
4.      SIERRA NORTE DE
PICHINCNA-CANGAHUA               5.6     2.10     6.6        1s8         2,812       206          844        m        2,181        693
5.                           ~~~~~~~~~~(4.7
S.      SIER NORTE DE                   47 
PIcHINeHA-TABAcuNDo            (l2.6     1.70     2.86        6S           859       206          766        271      2,121        682             co
S.      SIERRA NORTE DE                (
PICHINOIH-TABACUNDO             7.76     8.90     8.40        11S        8,927       263         2,151       765      6.658        692
(6863)
7.      TIP-ALUIIS                      1.9s      .80      1.90       16e          835        208          520       221      1,617         687
(1.66)
8.      TTP-ALUMIS                      8.76     1.80    11.46        560        4,825       203         2,366       488      6,441       1,262
(7.36)
SLOPES
9.      SANTA ISABEL                    2.10     2.0       2.6        -            647       208           287       646      1,662        148
19.     SANTA ISABEL                  (9.76)     8.50    12.10         43        5,409       268         2,624     1,188      7,162        563
DRY COAST
11.     WE  POSTES                     16.6      4.6      18.96       248        8,888       206         2,886       677      4,215        528
12.     PULA-JIGUAL                    5.e6      2.80      4.20        s6          916       268           S72       488      1,198        174          so
(2.86)                                                                                                             1
3/ At ful I developmnt.     Form machinery, equipment and permanent crops. i/ Storage, drying and processing.                                           0
u'



ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPUOIT PROJECT
ACRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOME WIDER THE PROJECT
Table 2: SIJUMRY OF ILLUSTRATIVE FARM MODELS - RAIND AREAS
CROPPING AREA  (ha)             TOTAL INVESTMENTS  (US             AN NUAL NET BEEITS   CJSS)
INCRE-
NET                  INFRA-        MENTAL                              NET
TOTAL  WITHOUT      WITH  INCREASE                   STRUC-       WORKING   WIThOT         WITH   INREASE
IIODL                                    AREA  PROJECT  PROJECT        (X)    ARICULTURE       TRE         CITAL   PROJECT   PROJECT          (I)
No.   REGIONNAREA                      (ba)                  V                                               U                     jf
HIGIHAIDS
1.      SIERRA                           1.90      1.20      1.80       6s o_                    28           164        468        766          S1
2.      SIERRA                            9.0      a.0       6.20        7            160        239          269      1,562      2,a23          47
SLOPES_
B.      ESTRIBACIONES                    3.22      2.26      3.86        62           120        U39          I"         28         623          99
4.      ESTRIBACIONES                   10.93      4.60      6.00        44           100        339          246      1,67       1,582          47
HUMID COAST
6.      COSTA H WJEDA                    1.86      1.64      2.30        40          la         889          176        226        462         161
S.      COSTA NOMEDA                     9.80      7.80    10.20         81           120        889          296      1,149      1,912          66
DRY COAST
7.      LITORAL CENTRAL                  2.10       .98      1.96       110           -          889           90        175        384         120
8.      LITORAL CENTRAL                  9.64      4.70     7.68         62           120        339          467        921      2,894         214
A At full developmnt.        Fan mchinery, quipment and pormnent crops.  I  Store, drying end processng.
00
'I'o



ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICTULtRAL PRODUCTION AND ICOMIE tM)ER THE PROJECT
Table : ACRICULTURAL PRODUCTION IN PROJECT AREAS - BY CROP
WITHOUT PROJECT                           WITH PROJECT (FULL DEVELOPMENT)
VOLUME                     TOTAL                   VOLWE                               AVERACE
OF     AVERAGE      VALUE OF                       OF    AVERACE     VAWIE OF       MARET
AREA  PRODUCTION       YIELDS   PRODUCTION        AREA   PRMOUCTION      YIELIDS   PROOUCTION      PRICES
C R 0 P                                (ha)       (Tons)    (Ton/he)      t'66JS)         (ha)       (Tons)   (Ton/ha)    ('666US)    (USI/Ton)
1.  ARLUC                                           -            --         -             270         2,186       8.16     1,986.31       566.6
2. RICE                              12,68       263,40         2.06      4,281.15     20,616        65,930       3.22    16,689.34       164.4
S. D  PEAS                              140         la7          .96         77.84        237           J32       1.46       186.61       638.1
4.  MEEI PEAS                           -            --          -          --          1,768         4,696       2.75     1,089.72       232.3
S. CACAO                              1,448         296          .21        353.98      1,440           57n        .48       67.67    1,162.5
6. COFFE                              5,60        1487           .27      1,921.12      6,65E         3,163        .67     4,082.38    1,296.7
7. SUET POTATO                                      --           -          -             137          96V        7.61        95.36        99.4
*. SUAR CANE                          2,734       6,946         8.27      1,222.26      2,996        14,04L       4.96     2,627.73       136.7
9. BARLEY                             3,733       3,982         1.07       679.93       2,491         3,978       1.86       679.34       169.3
Is. OION (ED)                           169       1,352         8.66       262.91         141        2,256       16.61       433.71       194.6
II. ONION (OTlER)                     2,669      23,072        11.16     2,971.99       3,376        37,746   -  11.20     4,981.42       128.8
12. EANS                              2,268        e6o           .28       414.87       3,s66         1,966        .61     1,288.21       652.2
13. cAm  EA                              16          18          1.3         2.64       1,293        a, a8        2.96       778.19       233.1
14. AWCADO                                          -            -         -              896         7,966      26.66       642.67       16.7              0
15. CITRUS                                          -            -         -              118        2,36e       26.69        4s.33        61.6
16. BRODBEANS (OM)                    2,157       1,369          .64       664.45       2,720        2,274         .84     1,136.74       499.9
17. 304  BEAN (UEll)                                -            -         -            1,138        3,183        2.90       366.30       116.7
1U. VEGETABLES                                      -            -         -            1,826        36,213      26.96     2,168.76        56.6
19. TOIMATOES                          659        6,140        16.82       68e.95       1,324       20,282       IC 28     2,187.90       108.1
20. LENTILS                             -                  --              -              152          152        266        115.69       761.1
21. Cth OTEMIER)                      4,829       3,197         .859       976.84       4,043        4,568        ... a    1,396.28       366.8
22. COR  (COB)                          312         780         2.s6        166.53      1,726        13,636       7.93     1,839.62       134.9
23. CORN (FLINT)                      4,060       6,924         1.76       954.83       6,936       13,596        1.96     1,876.88       136.6
24. PEANUTS                                   -                  -                        140          216        1.5S       162.75       489.3
26. POTATO                            o,6e6      51,367         8.44     6,936.64       7,275       86,97e       11.82     9,927.96       115.6
26. PASIMES (WEM)                    17,508       1,201          .07       895.99      18,825        3,372         .13     1,914.35       665.5
27. PASTURES (MIU)                  17,608       8,669          .46     1,182.34      24,106       17,846         .74     2,803.81       145.9
26. BAAN                                680       2,966         5.60        78.97         588        4,429        7.64       120.61        27.2
29. EAT                               1,529       1,393          .91       259.87       1,276        1,495        1.16       279.96       136.6
30. CASSAVA                             266       2,394          9.0       150.94         717        8,127       11.34       623.68       84.4
TOTAL           88,245      161,611         --    23,855.61    116,812         389,969        -      S6,744.70       -
/ Considering double-cropping.
/  July 1996 prices.
O,



ANNEX 5
- 71 -                           Tage4of 5
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOME UNDER THE PROJECT
Tabie 4t ESTIMATE OF AGGREGATE IMPACT ON AGRICULTURE PIJDUCTION
AND ANNUAL FARM INCOME
WITH PROJECT          NET
WITHOUT          (FULL     INCREASE
CONCEPT                   UNITS        PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT)           (Z)
*'
1.  Total Cropping Area                 Ha        88,245        116,812         32.4
2. Volume of Production               Tons       151,611        369,959        144.0
3.  Value of Production            US$'000      23,855.0       55,744.7        133.7
4. Cost of Production             US$'OO0       10,558.5       22,806.9        116.0
5.  Net Farm Income                US$'000      13,296.5       32,937.8        147.7
6.  Direct Beneficiaries          Families        23,109         23,109        ---
7.  Net Income Per Family              US$         575.4        1,425.3        147.7
l/ Considering double-cropping.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOME UNDER THE PROJECT
Table 6: Incorporation of Ben-ticlar1es
(Number of Faroe)
Y E A R S
REGION/AREA                        1         2       8        4        6        6      TOTAL
SIERRA tHIGHLANDS)
- Drylands                       650    1,299    1,299   1,0988      -        -        4,831
- Water Course                   ---    1,347    1,847   1,796                -        4,490
- Irrlgated                      ---      430   2,521       410      613      -        8,973
SUBTOTAL                       650    8,076    5,167   8,288       613      -       12,793
ESTRIBACIONES (SLOPES)
- Drylands                       226      450      4560      76      ---       -       1,500
- Water Coursas                  ---       499     499      sea      --                1,664
- Irrigated                      ---       ---     196      163      131       -         490
SUBTOTAL                       226      949   1,146   1,204        131      --       3,854
COSTA HUMEDA (HUMID COAST)
- Drylands                       840      682      682      568      --       ---      2,272
- Irrigated                      ---       148      82      246      219      298        940
SUBTOTAL                       340       886      714     813      219      296      8,212
LITORAL CENTRAL tDRY COAST)      518    1,035    1,036      663               ---      8,451
- Drylends
TOTALS
- DRYLANDS                     1,7838   3,486    8,486    2,889        -      ---    11,664
- WATER COURSES                  ---    1,846    1,846   2,462       ---      ---      6,154
- IRRICATED                      ---       678   2,749      818      963      296      6,404
TOTAL                     1,733    6,890   8,061   6,169        983      296    23,112



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT



ECUAIDR
Rural Devolopment
Tablo 1M1. IRRIOATION COMPONENT
San Isidro (Espeo-Mira)
Detailed Coet Tablo
M us$
Base Cooe                                 Poramatrs
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994-99  Total   Phy. Cent. For. Exch. Gr*** Tax Sum. Acrt.
I. DIVESIIT COSTS
A. Clivl Works
Land                       1.5    6.4    6.6    0.0    1.6            6.00      0.06       0.06 LAND
Intake Val Paso            9.1    6.0    0.0    0.6    9.1            0.10      0.43      0.00 CAN
Acequla Moran (8.4 Km)    66.2    6.0    6.6    0.0   66.2            0.16      6.43       0.00 CAN
main Canal (11.6 Km)      34.6    6.6    6.0    0.0   34.6            0.10      0.43       6.66 CAN
Sifon HJo3 Blanme          0.0   266.6    0.6    0.0  206.6           9.10      0.43       o.e6 CAN
SAcondarios                0.0  115.6   83.7    0.0  198.7            0.10      0.43       0.06 CAN
Tortlorle  on 611 ha      9.0  109.1  360.'    0.0  469.1            0.10      0.48      0.66 CAN
Sub-Total                 111.4  429.7  443.7    6.6  984.8
B. Engic3 ring Adainistratn
Engineering                7.7   30.1   31.1    o.o   66.9            6.00      0.60      6.66 ENCO
Total D1NESTMENT COSTS           119.1  459.8  474.8    0.0  1668.7
II. RECURENT COSTS
A. Operation & Maintenance      6.0    0.0   11.9   16.8   73.1           6.66       0.10      9.00 IROM
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.0    6.6   11.9   15.8   78.2
-==_ =, == ==
Total                         119.1  459.8  466.7   15.8 1126.8
- Valum saled by 1060.0 4/1/1991  12:26
0.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eH



ECUADOR
Rural D.volopaent
Table 132. IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Tabacundo (Sierra Norte do Pichinchn)
Detailed Cost Table
on Us$
Bae* Costs                                   Paraenters
1M/92 IM/93 1993/94 1994/95 1996-96  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Land                        O.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6           6.0        6."   6   6.  LAND
Intakes                    16.0    0.0 6.6    0.0   06.    16.0              0.16      0.43       6.06 CAN
Aequin Tabacundo          146.7    6.0    6.6    0.0    0.0  145.7           0.10       0.43      6.66 CAN
S cndrs for Surface Water    6.0  341.7    6.0   06.      0.6  341.7         0.10       0.43      6.06  CAN
Tertiars Srf ftr 1346 he    9.6  6O6.6  668.6    6.0    0.0 1217.2           0.16       0.43      6.6  CAN
main Canal for Croundwatr    6.0   86.3    0.0    6.6    0.0   86.3          6.10      0.43       6. 0  CAN
Secondaries for Croundotr    0.6    0.0   41.4    0.0    0.0   41.4          0.10      0.43       6.6  CAN
Tertilries or Groundwatr    0.0    0.0  334.9    6.6    0.0  334.9           6.16      6.43       6.66 CAN
Sub-Total                  161.7 1636.6  984.9      .6    6.6 2183.2
B. Equipment
Pumps nnd WeIlIa            .6   89.6    .60    0.0    0.0   89.6            6.66      6.66      06.6  PUWS
C. Engineering Adinistrn
Englering                 11.3   72.6   68.9    0.0    0.6  162.8           0.660      6."       6.66 ENGO                      U
Total INVESTENT COSTS            13.6  1198.6 1653.9    6.6    6.6  2426.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operation S Maintenance      0.0   12.0   19.0   26.9   34.3  166.8            Z.00      0.10      0.00 IROI
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.0   12.0   19.0   26.9   34.3  160.6
= == - = = =c
Total                          173.0 1210.8  1072.8   26.9   34.3 256M.4
- Velus scaled by 16.0 4/1/1991 12:26
50 
o o



ECUADOR
Rural Dovelopment
Table 1le. IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Canahus (Sierra Norte de Pichincha)
Detailed Cost Table
on9 USO
Base Cost                                         Partamters
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1996/96 1996-99  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Ucnt.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
tRnnl 8.26 Km               0.9  462.0  479.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  932.0             0.10      0.43       0.96 TUN
8 Intakes                   0.0   19.6    6.0    0.0 o.0    0.e   18.8                0.10      0.43       0.09 CAN
main Canal 2.2 Km           0.0    0.0  160.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  150.1             0.10      0.48      .9.a CAN
Plnanbuayeu 2.3 Km          9.9    0.0    0.0    8.5    0.0    e.6    8.5             6.10      6.43       0.a6 CAN
Hanimbru Intake            14.6     0.0    9.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.6            0.10      0.43       0.09 CAN
Plnanbuaycu Intake          0.0    0.0    e.9   37.0    0.0    9.0   37.0             0.29      0.43       0.09 CAN
R abb G    ianqulqui 8.6 Ks    33.2    0.0    6.0    9.9    0.0    0.o   83.2         0.10      9.43       0.96 CAN
Rehab Guanquilqul 21.4 Km    0.0    0.0    9.0   80.4    0.0    0.6   80.4            0.10      9.43      9.e6 CAN
Nbn Canal 6.9 Km            0.0    0.0  138.4  138.4    0.0    0.0  276.8             0.19      9.43       0.96 CAN
Secondaries 8996 ha        43.2  866.8    0.0  468.1  344.4    0.0 1712.6             9.16      0.48       9.00 CAN
Tertlaries Gravity 209 ha    0.0   64.0    0.0    0.9    0.9    0.0   54.0            0.10      0.4s      0.96 CAN
Tertiarles Pipes 1696 ha    90.6  796.0    0.9  772.3    0.0    0.0 1592.8            0.19      0.43      0.00 CAN
Sub-Total                  151.4 2151.6   76.5  1504.7   44.4    9.9 4910.6                                                        0'
B. Engineering Adunstrn
Engineering                10.6  165.6   53.1  195.3   24.1    9.9  343.7             9.90      0.96      6.90 ENGO
Total DIVESTMENT COSTS            162.9 2802.2  011.6 1610.   6e8.5s    .e 5254.3
II., RECIUT COSTS
A. Operation A Maintenaac        0.0    7.4   29.0   30.9   48.0   60.0  231.4            0.96       0.10      0.96 IRON
Total RECURRENT COSTS               9.9    7.4   20.0   36.6   46.0  96.0  231.4
5=s - = e= =s= == z==
Total                          162.0 2309.6  831.6 1640.9  416.5  96.6 5485.7
- Volue scaled by 1090.9 4/1/1991 12:26
'0 o



ECUADOR
Rural Developmet
Table 104. RRIGATION COUEMNT
Alumis (TTP) Canal Bajo
Detailed Cost Table
mUSe
Bse Costa                                        Paramotrs
19W1/92 1M9/9t 1998/94 1994/96 19W6/9# 1996-96  Total   Pby. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. DVNESTMEIT COSTS
A. CiviI Works
Lnd                        12.6    0.P    0.0    g.e    *.0    6.0   12.6            6.M       S." 0.6 .0  LAND
S Intakes rio Taboyacv     77.9    06     0.0    0.0    6.0    0.0   77.9            6.10      0.43      0.99 CAN
Intake rCo Cutachl         66.7    0.0    6.0    0.0    0.0    6.0   66.7            0.'.      0.43      6.99 CAN
Canal Alumis BaJo 14.2 km   94.2    6.0    6.0    6.0    0.0    0.0  894.2           6.16      6.48      0.00 CAN
Socoadaries 26.6 Km         0.0  887.6  28.7    0.6    0.0    0.0  696.2             0.16      0.48      6.9e CAN
Tertiaries 777 he           6.0    6.6  386.3  287.3    0.0    0.0  624.1            0.16      6.43      0.m CAN
Drains 21 1K                6.0    6.6    6.6    6.6  189.5    6.6  189.5            6.16      0.43      9.00 CAN
26.3 Km Road Iproement      0.0    6.6    9.6    6.6  131.6    0.0  131.6            6.O6      0.48      6.66 ROADS
Sub-Total                 166.6  87.5  595.5  27.8   271.1    6.6 2542.2
B. Enineringfl A Adaistrn
Enginering                 72.?   28.6   41.7   26.1   19.0    0.0  1".1             6.99      S."   o .eo 60E
- - - - - - -Z       .                                                                             -%--_--_.-_------_--_------S
Total DIESTMENI COSTS           1128.5  81.1  68.2   87.4  29.1    6.6 29.8
22. RECUIRENT COSTS
A. Operation A Mkintenance      0.0   060    6.0   16.6   22.0   22.0   62.6             v.00       0.16      0.9  1ROU
Total RECRUENT COSTS               0.6    0.0    6.6   10.0   22.0   22.0   82.0
-  ==- E =   3====
Total                         1128.6  861.1  648.2  817.4  812.1   22.0 2861.8
- Value scled by IM.4 4/1/199  12:26
"°0
o o



ECUADR
Rural DI elopmsnt
Table 1S. MR1ATION COMPONENT
Alumle (TTP) Canal Hort.
Detailed Cost Table
Bas COS                               Poraore
91/92 92/9S 93/94 94-9  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acet.
I. DIWESTII1T COSTS
A. Civil forks
Tertlarles 49.2 KI,CJ ha 529.8   0.0   6.6   0.0  529.3        0.10      9.43       0.96 CAN
Form ates 1,239           6.1   0.9   0.0   .0.   6.1           0.10     0.20      0.96 OTHS
Sub-Total                587.4   0.0   0.6   9.9 587.4
B. Englsesring & Aminietran
Engnrmring               87.6    0    0.9   0.0  87.6          0.06      0.00      9.9  EN80
Totl DrtESTMN  COST                     0.9   0.9   .0  575.0
tt. RECUIIW COSTS
A. Operatios A Maintenance     0.6   6.0  16.0  19.2 1K.8    0       .00      0.10      0.90 IR0M
Total RECNT COT                  0.0   6.0  16.0  19.2 102.6
Total                        C75.6   6.0  16.0  19.2 677.8
- Value scaled by 11. 4/1/1991 12:26
0



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 166. IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Santa Isabel
Detailed Cost Tablo
m ust
BDse Costs                                      Parameters
1991,92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/96 1995/96 1990-98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. DNESTUT  COSTS
A. Civil Works
Land                       1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    o.o    9.9    1.6           f..       9.e       0.0g LAND
ntaken                    18.9    0.0    0.1    0.0    e.e    o.6   18.9          0.10       6.48      6.eo CAN
Sifons rion Mines,NaranJo  193.1    0.0    0.0    6.0    0.S    0.0  198.1         6.16      6.48      .eo CmN
Drains 19 Km               6.6    6.6    o.o    o.6  176.1    d.6  176.1           0.16      0.48      e.00 CAN
Primry lc                  6.0   82.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6   62.6           6.10      0.41      0.0 CAN
Tertarles 1291 he          0.6  226.0  462.0  452.2    0.0    6.6  1130.2          0.10      0.43      *.0g CAN
Roads 46 Km                6.0    o.6    e.e   92.4   90.0    6.0  182.4           0.66      6.43      6.66 ROADS
Sub-Total                 218.6  U86.6  462.0  544.6  265.1    e.e 1768.8
9. Engineering A Adnistrn
Engineering               14.8   21.6   31.6   38.1   18.6    0.0  124.7           S.g.      e.g.      o.g. ENC1
Total INVESTENT COSTS            226.4  329.6  483.6  682.7  28. 7    6.6  196.08
II. RECUIIRENT COSTS
A. Operation A Naintanace       6.e    e.e    6.6   22.0   29.8   29.8  117.4          6.66      0.1i      0.e  IRON
Total RECURRENT COSTS             6.o    0.6    6.0   22.0   29.8   29.6  117.4
===-= ==    _ == e2==
Total                         228.4  329.6  489.6  604.7  313.6   29.8 2025.4
- Valus scaled by 10N.V 4/1/1991 12:26
00
wl



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 197. IRRIGATION COMPONENT
La Herradura (True Postes)
Dotalled Cost Table
o66 US$
Base Costs                                         Parameters
1991/92 1992/93 193/94 1994/95 1995/96 19-96  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Cross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Main Gates 6               9.0    9.0  161.5    6.6    0.0    6.9  161.5              0.10      0.43       6.00 CAN
Embankment. 28 Km        279.8  496.3  495.0    *.0    0.0    0.0  1270.1             0.05      0.43       o.te ROADS
Drains 169 Km              0.0  60.9  666.o   00.0  492.9    0.0 2292.9               0.10      9.43       0.09 CAN
Minor Structures           0.0    0.9   64.1   64.1   64.6    9.6  192.2              6.10      0.43       6.ee BLDG
Form Cates 3668            0.0    0.0    0.0   64.6  364.7    0.0  729.3              0.19      0.20       0.00 OTHS
Irrigation Pump Station    9.9    9.9  166.3    0.0    6.0    6.0  106.3              0.10      0.43       6.6e BLDG
Land Levelling 2,786 he    0.0    6.0    0.0  100.6  317.7    0.6  417.7              0.10      0.48       6.99 OTHS
_ _     _ -_ -   _ -     ___ _ _  __ _ __ ___ ___
Sub-Total                 279.8 1W69.   1426.9  1128.7 1239.3    6.6 6517.0
B. Equipm_t
Eloctro-Mschanical         0.0    0.0  232.6     0.0    0.6    0.0  232.6             0.00      6.66        .e6 OTH
Transformers               0.0    0.0  131.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  131.3              6.90      0.40       0.00 OTH
Sub-Total                   0.6    0.0   83.6    6.0    6.6    t.0  363.8                                                              o
C. Engineering A Admistro
Engineering               19.6   76.7   99.9   79.0   86.6    6.0  362.               0.00      9.60         0.90 ENOG
Total INVESTIENT COSTS           299.4 1172.0  1896.6  1207.7 1326.1    0.0 6896.6
11. RECURRENr COSTS
A. Operation A Maintenace      63.0   53.0   63.0  110.8  147.2  147.2  711.4             6.00       0.16       0.00 IROm
Total RECURRENT COSTS             63.0   63.0   58.0  110.8  147.2  147.2  711.4
Total                         362.4 1225.0 1943.6  1316.5  1473.3  147.2 6607.2
- Values scaled by 1000.6 4/1/1991 12:26
I 2l
00
o
N



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 16. IRRIGATION COMONENT
Pula-Jigual (Doua I)
Detailed Cost Table
Bae$ Costs                                         Parameters
1991/92 1992/98 1998/94 1994/95 196/96 1996-99   Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Trx Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESkIET COSTS
A. Civi IWrks
Land                      81.8    1.6    0.0    9.6    0.9    6.0   31.3             6.6        6.66       6.6 LAND
Embenkuante 56.5 Km      481.7   MU.6    0.6    6.0    0.0    6.6 1185.5              6.65      6.48        .  ROAS
Drains 117 Km              6.0  226.6  221.6    0.6    6.0    0.4  441.6              0.16      6.48       9.66 CAN
Structes                   6.0    el S   69.06 69.6 69.6    0.6  207.0                6.16      0.48       0.6 BLDG
Pumping Stations 7         0.0    6.6  101.3    0.6    0.6    0.6  101.8              0.16      0.43       6.0 BLDG
Tertiary Drains            0.0    60.  260.0  266.0  261.8    6.0  781.3              6.10       .48       0.0  CAN
Irrigao C as               6.0    0.0   68.6  196.0    9.0    6.0  168.6              6.16      6.48       6.6  CAN
No.61. ii, Jigutl          1.5    006   6.0    6.0    0.0    0.0   81.6               0.10      0.48       6.66 CAN
Land Levelinag 15SU ha     0.0    0.0    0.0  266.0  175.0    0.0  876.0              6.10      0.43       O.U OiS
Road Imp,    et             .      6.6    0.0    0.0  274.0    0.0  274.0             O.6C      0.48       6.66 ROADS
Sub-Total                 494.    28.8  72.5  629.0  779.8    0.0 8547.1
S. Diesl P_Mp 18                6.o    6.6  262.5    0.0    6.6    0.0  262.5              6.60      6.66       6.6 PkIWS
C. Enginering A AdmIstrn sO
Enginering                32.4   64.7   66.4   44.0   64.6    6.0  246.1              6.66      6.60       6.66 DENO
Total DIVESTmENT COSTS           626.9  968.5  972.4  678.0   88.9    6.0 8996.7
II. RECtRENUT COSTS
A. Operation A Maintenance    146.0  146.0  166.0  186.0  206.0  206.8  1264.4             6.60      6.1        0.6  IROm
total RECSWN3T COSTS             146.6  146.6  168.6  166.6  266.8  266.6  1264.4
Total                         672.9 1184.5  1189.4  869.0 1640.7  266.8 6260.1
- Values scaled by 120.0 4/1/1991 12:26
0
* Hz



ECUADOR
Rural Dovelopmeat
Table 201. VALIDATION OF TECHNOLOGY
Detailed Cost Tablo
Base Costa                                Parameters
Unit 1991/92 1992/98 1993/94 1994-98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sue. Acrut.
I. DVESIOEHT COSTS
A Surveys                      72.0   18.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           S."        O."       0.  STOS
8. Trials                      4e.9   64.6   69.9   69.9  896.1           S."        S."       0.0 STDS
C. Training of Extenan Vrkr    11.6   19.6   80.5   40.0  221.6           0.00       S.00      0.00 SEM
0. Training Aide               82.8    8.2    e.g    0.0   41.0           0.00       0.40      o.00 OFF
E. Evaluation eetIngs           4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   28.0           O.00       o.00      o.00 STOS
F. Vehicle                    128.0   64.0    0.0    0.0  192.0           0.o0       1.00      O.00 VNS
G. Toole                       16.0    4.0    o.0    0.0   20.0           0.00       0.20      o.00 MTH
H. Furniture                    4.8    1.2    0.0    0.0    6.0           S."0       O."0      O.00 OFF
I. External TraInIng           42.0   56.0   98.     0.0  16              O.0        1."       0.0 SEM
Total INVESTMk1IT COSTS          362.0  229.4  192.4  193.9 1189.6
II. RECURENT COSTS
A. Salaries of Technicians     83.0   38.0  83.0   33.0  231.0            0.00       0."       0.0 SAL
B. Per Dim                     18.2   13.2   1B.2   13.2   92.4           o.00       0.00      0.00 PERDIEM                            w
Total RECUWRENT COMTS             48.2   46.2   46.2   46.2  823.4
=~ ====    === ===
Total                         898.2  275.6  238.6  150.1 1613.0
- Vles scaled by iin.0 4/1/1991 12:26
0
'I,



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 81. TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY
Detai lad Cost Tablo
an US$
Base Costs                                         ParametAs
Unit 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1694/96 1996/98 1996-90  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Aent.
I. INESTMENT COSTS
A. Vebicles
4 X 49                     128.0   48.0    0.0    6.0    6.6    6.6   176.6             6.66       1.6       9.66 VNS
Motor Cycls                116.5   38.6   86.7   42.0    0.0    0.0  226.8              6.66       1.e       e.00 Nos
Sub-Total                   248.6   81.6   35.7   42.6    6.6    *.C  402.8
S. Equipmnt & Tools
for Extension  Pf ices      36.4   386.4    0.9    0.0    0.6    6.6   72.8             0.60       0.20      6.90 OTH
for PACs                    76.5  102.6  128.6  142.8  142.8    0.0  693.1              0.06       0.20      o.66 OTH
for Extentionists           12.1    2.6 2           0.0    0.0   060   17.9             6.00       0.20      6.66 OTH
for CIAO                   109.0    0.0    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6  109.6              6.00       0.20      6.66 OTH
Sub-Total                   243.1  141.5  131.7  142.8  142.8    6.6  792.9
C. Training of Staff             20.0   30.0   40.0   40.6   40.0   46.0  260.0              0.66       6.66      6.06 SEM
D. Training of Farmrs            18.6   63.0   87.6  109.6  109.0  109.0  695.0              6.66       6.0       6.66 SEN
E. Demonstrations                39.0  134.0  218.6  276.0  276.0  275.0 1491.0              6.00      9.66       9.60  MISC
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            566.1  440.1  512.9  606.8  568.8  424.6  8651.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries
Extension Workors          162.0  160.0  201.0  261.0  261.0  261.6  1497.0             e.66      6.66       9.60 SAL
Assistants                  46.0   46.0   45.0   45.0   46.9   45.0  815.6              0.00      6.06       6.6 SAL
Sub-Tot l                   147.6  195.6  24.0  366.6  3o6.6  366.6  1812.0
S. Per Dlem
for Extension Workers       20.4   86.6   40.2   62.2   52.2   62.2  299.4              6.66      9.66       6.66 PERDIEM
Other Allowances for Extn   27.2   40.0   63.6   89.6   69.6   69.6  899.2              0.00      6.66       6.06 PERDIEk
Sub-Total                    47.6   76.6   93.6  121.8  121.8  121.8  699.6
C. Operate A Maintnc. of Veh
for Field Vehicles           9.1   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.5   12.5   84.4              6.66      0.6.       6.06 SPARES
for Motorcyclos             21.1   27.3   83.6   41.6   41.5   41.5  248.1              0.00      0.69       6.66 SPARES
Sub-Total                    86.2   89.8   46.3   54.6   64.6   54.6  332.4                                                       °
Total RECURENT COSTS              224.8  864.8  886.1  481.8  481.8  481.6 2848.1
3=33      =          =3 =5=2=3    =           3.333                                                    0
Total                          779.9  744.9  899.1  1690.6  1648.6  906.6 6874.7
- Values scaled by 1i.0 4/1/1991  12:27



ECUADOR
Rural Devolopment
rable 401. FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
Detiled Cost Table
on US$
9age Cost                                           Paramut-rs
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996-98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch.  Cross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. DIESTMEBT COSTS
A. In the Highlands
Nurseries                 43.0    *.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   43.0               9.10       0.20       9.06 OTHS
Equipmnt                  16.9    0.0    6.0    0.0        9.0    0.0   16.6           9.90       *.20       0.00 OTH
Planting                 122.9  128.6  174.0  198.6  199.6    0.0  680.4               0.1Z       *.26       0.0 OTHS
Sub-Total                 161.0  128.6  174.0  183.6  199.6    0.0  867.4
B. In the Estribaciones
Nurseries                 43.e 0.0    0.6    9.9    9.9    9.6   43.0                  9.10       9.20       9.60 OTHS
Equipmnts                 12.0    9.9    0.9    9.e    9.9    8.9   12.0               0.60       0.29       6.6  OTH
Planting                  96.6  160.9  1386.?  144.2  166.8    9.6  636.2              0.10       9.20       0.60 OTHS
Sub-Total                 151.6  160.9  136.7  144.2  156.8 a        .0  690.2
C. In the Humid Coast
Equipmet                   8.0    9.0    9.0    e.9    9.9    e.0    8.9               9.66       0.20       9.66 OTH
Planting                  67.1   70.2   96.0  166.3  109.0    0.0  441.6               9.19       8.20       9.00 OTHS
Sub-Total                  76.1   70.2   95.0  100.3  109.0    0.0  449.6
D. In the Dry Coast
Equipment                 12.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   12.9               9.66       9.20       0.66 OTH
Planting                  25.7   26.9   36.4   38.4   41.8        0.0  189.2           0.10       0.20       9.66 OTHSq
Sub-Total                  87.7   26.9   86.4   38.4   41.8    9.0  181.2
E. Research Centers
for Hlghlands A Estrib.    69.0   28.0   13.0   18.0   25.0    0.0  138.0              0.00       0.20       0.66 MiSC
for the Coasts            48.8   36.7   18.2   16.0   20.2    0.0  139.0               9.e6       0.20       9.66 MISC
Sub-Total                 197.7   64.7   81.3   28.9   45.2    9.0  277.0
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS           654.0  891.2  478.8  494.4  662.3    0.0 2466.4
= == == ==   ===
Total                         564.0  891.2  473.3  494.4  662.8    0.0 2406.4
- Values scaled by 1900.0 4/1/1991  12:27
0
OQaE
1*bw



ECtMOOR
Rural Dovalopunt
Table Ul1. PRIVATE INVESTMENT FOR ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT COPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
ons ;JW
Baas Costs                                           Parameters
1991/92  1992/93 1993/94  1994/96  1996/96 1996-99   Totsl   Phy. Coat. For. Exch. Gross Tax S.. Acot.
I. INSwurl   COSTS
A. Private Inv - Os-Farm Onw
Median/Long Tore - Agri (1)    364.1   891.1   888.7   714.6       9.6     *.0  2g56.7          0.00        .26      0.66 ONFU
Ned/Long Term Infr struct (2)   161.9   375.4   375.6   216.8      0.0     e.6  1128.7          o.eo       *.3S      0.0e ONFU
Sbort Term Incrsnti .Cap       647.6  1432.4  1993.6  1201.4   63e.6       e.6  6164.9          0.0#       6.0       e.oa ONFU
Sub-Total                      1373.6  2696.9  3265.8  2132.0   639.0       9.0  10596.3
Total DINESTMENT COSTS                1373.6  2698.9  3265.6  2132.6   639.6       0.0  1_6.3
_-    G ==  == ~=
Total                              1373.6  2698.9  3255.6  2132.6  603.0        0.0  105.91
(19 Frm macbinery,oqulpmnt,asnd permnent crops
(2) Nainly storag and drying facilities
- ValuOe *caled by 105.0 4/1/1991  12:27
I!
0
to
Ib



ECUADOR
Rural Develope ot
Table 6e1. POST-HARVEST PROCESSING & MARKETING COMPONENT
Regional Processing and Marketing Centers
Detailed Cost Table
M69 usS
Base Costs                                   Parameters
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 96/96 96-98 Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sun. Acnt.
I. INESTMENT COSTS
A. Tres Postes                 e.9  30.0  88.3   0.0  59.7   0.0 178.0            0.00      0.19      9.ee PSH
8. San Pedro Store             9.0  38.0   9.9   e.g   0.9   6.o  36.0            o.eo      9.19      e.ee PSH
C. RiCo Ml l                   A.90   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.0           o.eo      9.1i      6.oo PSH
D. Plsya Store No. 1           e.0  16.0   0.9   0.9   o.e   0.0  16.9            6.99      9.19      6.e6 PSH
E. Playa Store No.. 0.9   0.0   6.0  090  16.0   0.0  16.0                        9.99      6.19      6.99 PSH
F. Pan Y Agu                  98.6  98.6   9.0   0.9   e.o   0.0 197.0            0.00      0.10      9.99 PS"
0. Jipijapa North              9.0  20.0  49.3   9.0   0.0   6.6  69.3            9.9e      9.19      0.00 PS"
H. Ceeposano                   9.e  20.0  41.1  10.0   0.0   0.0  71.1            9.eo      9.is19    A O PS"
I. Corazon                     0.0  20.0  30.9   0.9   e.9   9.9  60.9            0.ps      o.1i      J .  PSH
J. Pangue Store                o.e   6.9  18.0  18.0   0.0   0.0  36.0            6.99      9.19      6.99 PS"
K. Cheese Plant               19.6  19.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  39.2            0.00      6.10      6.99 PS"
L. Santa Isabel Center No. 1   6.   20.0  26.S   5.6   9.6   0.0  61.0            6.99      9.19      9.eo PS"
M. Santa Isabel Pucara         e.0   0.0  16.0  30.0   9.0   0.0  46.0            0.90      0.10      6.99 PS"
Total INvESTMENT COSTS          138.1 289.1 266.1  63.5  75.7        0  26256.
= = =                                 =-=
Total                         138.1 280.1 2688.   63.6  76.7   9.9  826.5
- Values s*cled by 199W.0 4/1/1991 12:27
0
W 



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Tabl- 602. POST-HARVEST PROCESSING AD MARKETING COMPONENT
Improvemnts of Markets *nd Fairs
Detailed Cost Table
me US,
Base Cost                                       Parameters
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/96 96596 96/97 97/98 Total   Phy. Cant. For. Exch. Cross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. El qulnche                 77.7 107.7  26.6   6.0   0.0   6.6   6.6 211.9           9.ee       6.16      9.60 PS"
B. Csyamb.                     0.6  1U.6   O.O  40.Q  18.0   9.6   6.0  77.6           6.ee      9.1U       9.91 PS"
C. Saquisil                   21.6  85.6  34.4  39.0  28.6  13.7   6.0 211.7           e.96      0.10       B.09 PSH
D. Tabacundo                   0.0  10.0   0.0  20.0  26.0  10.2   0.0  69.2           0.96      6.16       6.66 PSH4
E. El Anpel                    6.6   0.   30.6  20.0  10.2   6.6   6.6  69.2           e.96      0.10       6.90 PSH
F. Urban Facilities           10.0  10.6  20.0  39.0  20.0  10.0  10.0 116.6           0.00      O.U6       .OOPS1
'otel INVESTMENT COSTS          169.2 223.3 116.9 140.0  94.7  43.4  10.0 731.5
==== = _== ==
Total                        109.2 223.3 110.9 140.0  94.7  43.4  16.6 731.5
- Values scaled by 1669.6 4/1/1991 12:27
0
co
o1n
u o
o.



ECUADoR
Rural Development
Table 668. POST-HARVEST PROCESSING AND MARKETING COWONENT
Pilot Enterprist
Dtiled Coset Table
on s
Base Cots                                   Paratere
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/96 95/96 96-98 Tot I   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. A-st.
s. DWESTIT COST
A. Plaasy  Cocoa               .0  20.0  20.6   6.6   6.6   0.0  46.0            6.00      6.1      6.66 PSH
B. Jipijapa Fruit              e.o   6.6   6.0  26.0  26.0   0.0  60.0           6.69      6.16      9.e6 PS"
C. Pasgus Sugar                6.6  16.0  10.0   6.6   6.6   o.6  20.0           6.00      O.16      0.00 PSH
r,. Facedo Cocoa               6.0  10.0  10.0   0.0   6.0   6.0  20.0           O.66      6.16      6.66 PS"
E. Sierra Norte Flo.rs         0.9   0.0 61.0  40.0   0.0   0.0  60.0            o.66      6.16      0.66 PS"
F. TIP Aspragm                10.6  20.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.6  30.0           6.66       .16      6.66 PS"
Totel INVEST1ENT COSnTS          19.6   .6  560.  865.   2.6.  6.6 210.0
== = C= = = =
Total                         10.0  60.6  60.6  68.0  26.6   6.O 210.0
- Value  ecled by 1M96.0 4/1/1991 12:27
lO
1%31



ECUADOR
Rural Dewelopment
Table 664. POST-1URVEST PROCESSVI= AND MARKETING COWPO1FXT
Institutional Support
Detailed Cost Table
on US11
Base Cost                             Paramutrs
91/92  92/93  93-98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exeh. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicle
General Vehtclos        60.6 0   .6 O   .O  66.0           0.66       1.96       o.ey VHS
Motor Cycles            48.0  24.0   0.0  72.0             6.96       1.00       6.o6 MOWS
Sub-Total               168.6  24.6   6.6  182.0
B. Office Equipment          20.0   0.0   0.0  26.0             6.00      0.40       0.06 OFF
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS         128.6  24.6   e.6  162.0
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff                      4.0   4.6   4.0  26.0            0.00       0.00       0.66 SAL
S. Community Promoter        28.8  43.2  43.2 288.0             0.00      6.00       6.06 SAL
C. Per Diem                  10.0  16.0  16.0  100.0           0.00       0.00       6.66 PERDIEM                              o
D. Vehileo Maintenance       15.0  20.0  20.0  135.0            0.00      9.56       0.00 SPARES
Totel RECURRENT COSTS           57.8  62.2  82.2  551.6
= = == ==
Total                       186.8  166.2  82.2  7M8.0
- Valu  scaled by 1000.0 4/1/1991  12:27
so
0
t4



ECUADOR
Rural Dovelopment
Tablo c65. POST-HARVEST PROSESSING AND MARKETING COMPONENT
Post-Harvest Studies
Detalled Cost Tablo
on6 usS
Das Costs                                         Parameters
91-93  93/94  94/95  96/96  96/97  97/98  Total    Phy. Cont. For. Exch.  Gross Tax Sum. Aent.
I. DINVESTMENT COSTS
_ ____________
A. International Studes       25.0   26.6   16.0   16.6    0.0    0.0  1oe.9           0.00        1.66 W     9.6O  INTCON
S. National Studies           20.6   20.0   20.9   10.0   10.0    0.0  160.6            0.00       0.00       6.6  LOCCON
C. Prototype Machinery        20.0   20.6   26.0   20.0    6.0    6.0  100.0           0.00        0.20       e.66 OTH
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           65.6    66.6          46.0   10.0     0.0  396.0
= s===   - __  == =
Total                         66.6   60.6  65.0   46.0   10.0    0.0  36.6
- Values scaled by 1666.6 4/1/1991 12:27
0 CX
0



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 7M1. COMWUNITY DEVELOPUMENT UND (FODECO) COWONENT
Comuntlly Marketing & Processing Projects
Dotailed Cost Table
of use
Base Cotte                                           Para.et.rs
199n/92 IM/93 1998/94 1994/95 1995/98 1996/97 1997/98  Totel   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Smo. Acnt.
I. DNESTME  COST
A. FODECO 1
Epejo mire              16.6   64.6   80.6   80.0   48.0   82.0    6.0  320.6            6.66       6.86      6.66 GENL
TTP                     32.6   96.6  112.0  112.0   64.0   16.6   10.0  448.0            6.e        o.ao      6.60 GMEl
Slrra Norte            82.0   96.6  128.0  128.0   64.0   32.6    6.0  486.6            S.66       6.86      6.66 aEml
Guano                   16.0   48.6   48.0   48.6   82.0   16.6    0.0  208.6            6.66       6.ao      6.66 cEN
Peagae                  16.6   64.6   64.0   48.0   82.6   16.6    0.0  240.6            6.66       0.30      6.66 GEcL
Faecundo Vola           16.6   64.6   64.0   48.0   32.0   16.0    0.0  246.6            0.06       0.8 o     6.6 GcEL
Jipijapa                32.0   96.6  112.6  112.0   64.0   16.6   16.0  448.0            6.66       6.860   0.6 CGm
Pajan                   32.6   64.6   96.0   80.0   48.0   16.6   16.6  362.6            6.66       6.30      0.60 CEmU
Santa Isabel            16.0   64.6   64.0   48.0   82.0   10.0   16.0  256.6            S.66       8.3       0.00 GENL
Tres Postes             32.0   80.6   96.6   96.0   64.0   32.6   16.6  416.0            6.06       0.30      0.00 GENL
Ployns do Higueron      82.0   96.0  112.6  112.0   64.0   32.6   16.6  464.             6.60       0.30      0.00 CENL
San Pedro de Daub I2.6   64.0   64.6   64.0   48.0   16.6    6.0  288.6                  6.66       6.36      0.66 CEm.
_- -- _ - _ - --- -- _ 
Tot ub-lTotali 3o a4.0  M0.0 1040.0  978.0  692.0  268.0   8 .0 41BO.0
Total DIVESTMENT COSTS         846896.6 164.6  976.6  592.6  25.6   96.6 4166.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Administration            86.4   89.6  164.0   97.6   69.2   25.6    9.6  416.0            6.66      6.66       6. 0  ADM
Total RECURRENT COSTS          86.4   89.6  164.0   97.6   59.2   26         9.6  41C.6
Total                       884.4  985.6 1144.0 1078.6  651.2  281.6  106.6 4676.0
- Values scaled by 1666.0 4/1/1991 12:27
30
'id
I.



ECUADOR
Rural Devolopawnt
Table 72. COMWINITY DEVELPOMENT FUND COWPONENT
Comunity Productive Projects
Detai led Cost Table
000 UsIl
Base Cost                                              Parameters
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/96 1995/96 1990/97 1997/98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sun. Acat.
I. DrWESTIENT COSTS
A. FODECO 2
Seeds Projects (Line 1)     12.6   16.9   26.2   25.2   25.2   16.8   12.6  138.5               o.eo       0.39      0.1U CENL
Agri Technology (Lin 1)    69.4   68.9   75.6   88.2  100.8   75.6   60.4  654.0                *.00       0.30      0.9 ENL
Small Li vstock(Lin.s112)    41.0   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5   61.5   24.6  373.1              9.9        9.30 a.e00 CamL
Veterinary Suppiles         12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   86.2               9.99       9.39 .a0  ajL
Fruit/Vog (Lines 1 A 2)     42.3   66.4   56.4   63.4   56.4   42.3   28.2  336.4               9.00       0.3o      9.o9 CEaL
Agroindustry (Line 1)       63.6   63.6   63.6   68.6   83.6   31.8   16.9  3a6.7               9.99       0.30      *.00 aEmL
Craft. (Line 1)             12.6   26.2   26.2   42.0   42.0   26.2   12.6  184.8               9.9       9.3a      09.9  CEaL
Community Infrastructuro    60.4   76.6  190.8  100.8   26.2   26.2   26.2  403.2               9.90       0.30      9.90 CENL
Marketing (Line 1)          80.0   72.0  6e.o   24.0   12.0   12.0   12.0  262.0                o.99      9.3B       U.N CENL
Mechanization (Line 1)      21.0   21.9   31.5   31.6   31.5   47.2   81.5  215.2               9.99      6.39 a.99 CEGL
On-Firm Sm ll Investment    14.0   23.8   23.3   23.3   23.8   23.3   11.6  142.1               9.00      9.3a       0.00 CaL
Sub-Total                   a89.5  498.1  585.7  529.1  454.1  373.6  237.i 8093.3
____~~~          ~                             -    _                                              0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             88o.s  498.1  535.7  529.1  464.1  873.6  237.2  8998.8                                                    W
II. RECUiRENT COSTS
A. Administration Costs          38.o   49.8  658.6    2.9   46.4   37.4   23.7  809.8               9.9        O.9       0.900 ADM
Total RECURRENT COSTS               88.9   49.8  65.6   52.9   45.4   87.4   28.7  36W.3
=-- ======  === ====  
Tot l                           418.5  542.4  689.8  582.0  499.6  410.9  281.0 8398.6
- Values scaled by 1W.8 4/1/1991  12:27
'a
0
"I



EWADOR
Rural  ._lngmant        r
table 611. ROAD C_WUIT
Detalled COt Table
mim
sosm Costa                                           Parae4ers
I/92 1992/0l   190U/94 1994/9S 19SC/9S 199S'9    Total   Ahy. CoWt. For. Exeh. Greg Tax Sm. Acnt.
I. DIlESl_BT COStS
A. HIgslads       84.0 KM
EaJPj-U" l  1r1.5 Ka    95.3   63.3   867.8            3.3      3.3     3.3  227.8            .35       *.48       6.9  ROADS
Nortt do Pichlcba 9.32K    795.    690.0   513.4      6.0      3.3     0.3  1616.4           0.35      0.48       3.W ROADS
TTP             11.7 Km   9SM.$   695.3   8S7.4        3.3      9.3     *.0  2067.4          3.35       0.48       3.91 ROADS
Guano            086.2 Km   43.3   40.3   219.7        3.0      3.3     *.3  1319.7          3.05       3.48       0.90 ROADS
Sub-Total                   2895.9  2400.3  2484.6      9.3      9.0     3.9  7164.6
3. Slope          198.9 Km
Pangs.           75.9 Km    mef.    7M.3   656.1       0..      3.3     0.0  2156.1           3.56      3.48       3.95 ROADS
FecundVeo Vla    6.7 Km   744.0   733.3   791.8        0.0      0.0     0.0  2286.3          O."        3.48       0.00 ROADS
Srnt Isobel      52.8 Km   70.0   772.0   536.9        3.3      0.0     0.0  2277.9          O.OS       0.48       *.00 ROADS
Sub-Total                   2244.0  2172.0  2263.       3.S      3.3     0.0  6369.8
C. Dry Coast      237.3 Ks
Jlpijape        115.6 Km  119.3  uM.0  1154.6          *.0      0.0 3    .3  8234.5          0.86       0.48       o.e8 ROADS
PsJnn           107.2 Km  1140.0  l18.3  1221.7       3.0      3.0     3.0  8S4.7           O.C5       0.48       OJ.  ROADS
Sib-Total                  2249.3  2109.3  282.2        3.0      0.3     3.0  6S6.2
D. HuMid Coast     86.J Km
Playas do Hlgeron 31.6Km    416.0   415.0      0.0     3.0      0.3     3.0   831.3          *.35       0.48       0.95 RWODS
So Podro do Saul. 4.5 Km     0.0   118.3       0.3     3.0      3.0     0.0 3  118.3         3.         0.48       O.W ROADS
Sub-Total                   416.3   526.        0.0     o.e      3.3     3.3   944.0
E. Er8g. Design £ Studles      3865.       0.0     3.3      3.3      3.3     3.3   J3U.3          o.ee       0.29      O."3 LOCC N
F. Adlmnistration A Supvsn      256.3   250.0   253.3   26e.0   187.2        0.0  1187.2          O.8e       0.25      O."5 ENCO
Total INVESTENT CCsTS             7806.3  74S.0  78l4.8   2ee.3   167.2         0.3  229S1.5
II. REOCMEWT COSTS
A. aintenanc                      3.0   195.3   260.0   830.0   836.7   630.7  1592.1             3.95       0.a3       S." RDSS
Total RECWRENT COSTS                 0.    195.3   263.3   863.3   833.7   81.7  1592.1
Total                          7633.0  7553.0  7514.8   503.6   517.9   833.7 24548.6
- Valu   M scald by 1.3  4/1/1991  12:28
0i



ECUADOR
Rural Developent
Tablo 621. WATER HARVESTING COMPONENT
Detalled Cost Table
Om US$
Bas. Costs                            Pearoters
1991/92 1992-98 1996-99  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Cross Tax Sun. Acnt.
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
JilpiJpa Small Dam  (48) <1)  132.0  126.4    0.0  633.6         6.18     09.48        .00 CAN
Pajan Small Dm  (102) (2>    842.0  378.6    0.0 1888.0          0.16      6.43       0.06 CAN
ib-Total                      474.6  496.9   060 2469.6
B. EuIpment                      186.7    0.0    6.0  136.7           6.66      0.26      6.6 aTH
C. Engineering AdeInistratn       88.2   34.9    0.0  172.8           6.6f      0.06      6.66 ER40
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              642.9  533.6          2776.1
== =G=  - =.
Total                            642.9  583.8    6.0 2776.1
~~~~~~~-          -   -                                            w--
(1) Based on 16 final designs unit cost is 818,26.
(2)  ased on 12 final dsigns unit cost io 818,000.
- Value scaled by 1666.0 4/1/1991  12:28
t4
Ix
0 
w o



ECUADiO
Rural Developmnt
Table SO1. L1 TNDEM  REC.RIZATION AND TITLUN  C8ONFIENT
Detailed Coat Table
onuse
Base Cots                            Parter
1991/92 1992/93 1993-96  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Oroe  Tax Sum. Aent.
I. IWESTHINT COSTS
A. Vehicles                  192.0    6.6    6.   192.0         6.25      1."        V.    S
B. Equipment
Radio Amplifiers          18.6    6.6    6.6   13.6         6.25      6.260     C.6 OH
Tae Reordera              *.7    0.*    6.6    0.7          0.2S      6.26      S." OH
Casttes                   6.1    6.6    6.6    6.1          6.25      6.26      6." OTH
Theodoites                94.9    6.6    0.6   94.9         6.25      6.20      6.60 CT"
Sureylng Trgta             5.6    6.6    6.6    6.6         0.26      6.26      .6" OTH
M.ssurlb  Rod.            0.6    6.0    0.0    6.6          6.25      0.23      .6 0
aeeuriag Tepee            27.1    6.6    6.6   27.1         6.25      0.20      *.6 OTH
Altimeters                2.2    6.6    6.6    2.2          0.25      0.26      6.e0 OTH
Compas_                   8.5    0.6   6.6    3.6           0.25      6.26      6.0e OTH
Computer Eqipment        166.6    6.6    6.6  166.6         6.25      6.90      6.06  COW
Sub-Totl                  247.6    O.6    6.   247.6
C. Prowetieal Msterials
Difulelo Radial (centrt)  4.5    6.9    6.0    4.5          0.25      0.40      O.66 PRIM
Publicatloe Materials     8.1    0.6    6.6    6.1          6.26      0.46      6.e6 PRM
D"k Iletriale             20.a    6.6    0.0   20.8         6.25      6.46      O." PRIM
Setchbls MaterIal.        26.2    6.0    e.6   20.8         6.25      0.46      6.66 PROM
TyperIter                 2.6    6.6    6.6    2.6          0.25      6.40      6.6 PRIM
Sub-Totel                 55.6    6.0    6.6 65.6
D. Proectvle Gomno
Sleelng Sa                4.6    6.0    6.6    4.6    *      .25      o.66      o.66 MISC
Vaterpreots               11.2    6.6    6.6   11.2         6.25      6.66       .  M01ItsC
Leatber beta               6.6    6.6    6.6    6.5         0.2s      6.e         .  MISC
SAm.o                      S.7    6.6    6.6    6.7         0.2s      6.66      S." IISC
Sub-Total                 29.4    6.    6.6   29.4
E. Pr -cadr l Cost            21.6    S.2    *.6   29.6         6.2s      6.66      6.6 MISC
Total DISvUIiT COSTS           S5.6    6.2    6.   515.
II. RE10AtW COSTS
A. Fel A Vaibmlsc of Vab    83.9   88.9    6.6   67.6           0.26      6.56      6.6  SPARES
3. Perasonel
Agri. E.glr               82.s   27.5    6.6   6e.6         e.25      o.66     0.6  SAL
Levyrs                    82.    27.8    6.6   59.6         6.25     6.6       6.  SAL
Promtere                  22.5   19.0    6.6   41.5         0.26      6.66      6.6  SAL
Field IlvestpOter         72.2   66.7    6.6  182.9         6.25      6.66     6.66 SAL
Adeniltfative AssietaUte   21.7   16.4    6.6   46.1        0.25      6.66     6.66 SAL
Drivers                   22.6   19.1    6.6   41.6         0.25      6.66     6.66 SAL
Topographer*             47.6   39.9    6.8       7         6.25      6.66     6.66 SAL
Drafting Porsomne         37.1   36.4    6.s                6.25      6.66     6.66 SAL                                                 to
Chineg" for Survey       76.2   61.2    6.6       4         0.26      0.66     6.6  SAL                                                 Is
Cleeriagme for Survey     77.9   63.4    6.6  *i1 3         0.25      6.66     6.6  SAL                                                 O
PFr Dlm                  274.7  268.0    0.0  629.7         6.25      6."       6.6 PRDIEN                                             to
Sub-Total                 716.5  621.6    6.6  17.6                                                                                      0
Titl RECITW  CDSTS              760.4  e64.9    6.6  1466.8 
u=s,,=WOXZ  ==32 3=3                                                                                            1%
Total                       1297.1  668.1    6.6 1966.2
- Value  caled by 1_.  4/1/1991 12:21



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 911. EMVIRONMENTAL COPONENT
Dealled Cost Table
w  US
Base Cost                                        Paers
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 98/97 97/98 Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Cross Tax Sum. Acat.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Veuicles                   80.0   *.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.9   il.O  3.0            0.00       1.96      0.00 VNS
S. Office A Lab. Equipment    26.0  60.0   0.0   0.0  25.0   0.0   0.0  100.0           0.96       0.40      *.96 OFF
C. Environmental Studi          .  120.0  95.9   0.0  20.0   0.0  20.0 896.0            0.96       0.8       0.09 LOCCON
Total INVEST   C                186 17.0    .         0.0 46.0   *.   20.0 48.a
II. RECURRENT COSTs
A. Local Staff (UEPA)         82.0  82.0  82.0  82.0  32.0  82.0  82.e 224.0            0.96      0.96       9.96 SAL
B. Short-Tre Consultants      80.0  30.0  1.60  15.0  16.0  15.9  16.0 18560            0.96       0.96      0.96 CON
C. PrDOle A Travel of Staff    6.0   6.0   6.0 O.0   6.0   6.0   6.0  42.0              0.96       0.96      0.96 PEROM
D. Oprto/hlbntne of Vehiclee   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.6   8.0   3.0   3.0  21.0            0.96      0.60       9.J0 SPARES
E. Materials & supplies        2.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   6.0            0.09       0.20      0.9  MAT
--    - -     -   ~~~~-----    -    -a
Total RECURRENT COSTS            78.0  72.0  57.0  57.0  67.0  57.0  57.0 430.0
=== =                  =m==  e =2 == ====e =                                                            -J
Total                        2M8.0 242.0 117.0  57.0 102.0  67.0  77.0 60S0-
- Values scaled by 196.0 4/1/1991 12:28
I!o 
0 
"I



ECUADO
Rural DOelop_mt
Tablo 921. TRAININ AND COMMUNICATIONS COMPONENT
CGemral Traainig of Bene iciaries
Detaled Cost Table
m usli
Bse COs                                             Parseeters
Unit  91/92 92/93 98/94 94/96 95/98  96/97 97/98 Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch.  Gros Tax Sum. Acat.
e m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        __ -- -                      .- -_
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. International Event              21.0  42.0  63.0  42.0  21.0  21.0    .0  210 .               0.00       1.98       6.08 f2f
B. National Event                    5.4   6.4  10.8  10.6  10.6  10.3   6.4  59.4                0.08       0.98       *.98 sEN
C. Local Worksholls                  4.8   4.6   4.8   4.6   4.9   4.6   4.6  38.6                S."        0.98       9.89 SEM
D. Regional Metings                  2.9   4.8   6.8   6.6   6.8   6.6   4.3  84.6                6.08       0.08       9.0 SEM
E. Field Days                        4.8   4.6   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.6   4.6  88.6                0.00       0.00       0.66 SEN
F. Train PAC (gri Prodn)             3.6   6.0   6.0   6.6   8.6   8.6   0.0  27.0                0.C        0."        6.09 SEH
0. Train PCC (Post-Harvest)          4.0   6.0   6.0   4.6   4.0   0.0   *.9  24.0                6.98       0.0        6.08 SEN
H. Annual Budgeting Exercise         2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9  20.2                6."8       0.98       6.90 SEN
I. Vehicles                         20.6   *.0   0.0   0.8   0.6   9.0   0.0  20.0                6.98       1.00       6.00 VMS
Total INDESTMOET COSTS                 68.6  76.2 164.0  81.6  67.0  68.9  22.2 482.3
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries (1)                     24.0  24.6  24.6  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  166.0               0.98       0.98       6.9 SALc
B. Travel to project areas           9.6   9.6   9.8   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6  67.2                0.90       0.900      0.0  PERDIEH
C. Printing & Publications          10.6  20.6  20.0  20.6  10.0  19.0  10.0  100.0               0.00       0.20       0.98 MAT
D. Vehicles Maintennce               6.0   o.0   6.0   5.0   6.0   5.0   5.0   86.0               e.98       0.60       0., 'WARES
Total RECMROENT COSTS                  48.6  60.6  56.   68.6  48.6  48.6  46.6  379.2
===    = _ === === - awm= tg=
Tot l                              117.4 184.6  162.3  139,6  165.6 101.6  70.8 682.6
(1) Four staff, one secretory, *nd one driver.
- Value scaled *. 198.6 4/1/1991  12:26
I%
w 
ta



EaMS
Table 22.   DMA  AM eOUcATON  COWUT
Tra, lng of Staff
Detoaled Coat Table
uOs$
Ba. Coot                                     Parameters
Unit  91/92 92/93 93/4 94/9C  96/#6  9C8  Total   Phy. Ct. Fr. ExcD.  rss Tom S. Aet.
1. INVESIVT COSTS
A. Coo,   ae Smlmrs (1)           59.9  29.0  2J.9   W.9  29.9  *.9  140J.            9."       9.05       0.0 SEIN
a.  rIis." (2)                    20.6  29.9  16.9  29.9  29.9   9.0 90.9             9.9        9.99      9.90 SEIN
C. Ia-ew  co Tralning (8)         3.0  89.9  14.0   9.0   9.9   *.9  74.9             0.99      9.9'       9.99 SEN
D. In-service Foreign Ting. (4>    39.0  U8.9  39.9  39.9   9.J   9.9  129.9          C.a        1.99      9.00 SEN
E. Flild Vilita (S>               1S.0  10.9  19.9   *.0   5.9   *.9  49.9            S."       9."        9.90 SEN
..-%I INIVESTMT COSTS              145.1  119.09.9  69.9  46.J   9.9  47.
Tot.l                            145.9  119. 9C.0  99.0  45.9  90.  479.0
(I> Five days each, as perticipanta.
(2) Three days oecA. go partileipant.
(3) to Ecuader, 1S days aveora par participaet.
(4> Overes for 2 daye, 1 perticlpelt.
(5) Fi" dayo ea, 19 pertcipeant. 
- Value scaed by 11.  4/1/1991 12:21
I I 
00
'a
oo 



ECUADOR
Rural Developmn:t
Table 923. TRAININO A COMMUNICATIONS COPONENT
Irrigation Manamnt Training
Detailed Cost Tablo
060 USS
Base Costs                                          Paramete 
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/96 199S-97 1997/96  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Cross Tax Suo. Aant.
I. Dl4ESrMEwI COSTS
A. Vehicles (1)                     0.0   180.0    6.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   180.6           0.09        1.0       6.99 VMS
S. Field Offices (3) (2)            0.0   66.0   60.0       6.0    0.0    6.6  120.0            0.90       0.40       0.W OFF
C. Office Supplte                  10.0   1f.0   10.5   16.0  1U.0   10.0   70.0                6.00       0.26       6.99 MISC
D. Training Materials              10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   70.6                0.00      0.S6       0.9  SEN
E. Consultants                      0.0   20.0   20.0    20.0   20.0   20.0  126.0              d.60       0.99       6.99 LOCCON
F. Demonstration Fi.lds             0.0    0.0    17.6    17.0   17.0   17.0   86.0             0.80       6.00       0.9.  PROM
0. Training Dars                    0.0    14.0   14.0   14.0   14.0    0.0   70.0              0.00       0.00       6.08 SEW
H. Training in Colombia             9.4   60.4    14.5    22.2    0.0    0.0    9.5             9.99       0.e9       6.60 SEM
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                29.4   344.4   145.5    93.2   71.0   67.0  811.6
II. RECJRRNT COSTS
A. Coordinator                      6.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   78.60 .99 0.09                           6..0 SAL.
B. Assistant                        1.8    3.6    8.6       3.6    3.6    3.6   23.4            0."        0.60        .00 SAL                 °
C. Secretary                        1.8    8.6    3.6       3.6    3.6    3.6   23.4            6.00       6.99       6.00 SAL
D. Clerks (8)                      14.3   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8  187.1               0.99       0.00       6.60 SAL
E. Field Trainers (8)              19.2   38.4   38.4    38.4   38.4   38.4   249.6             6.99       0.99       6.9  SAL
F. Travel Costs                    10.0   16.0    16.0   16.0   16.6   16.0  100.6              0."        6.00       6.9  PERDIEM
0. Printing A Copying              10.0   10.0   16.6    10.0   16.6   10.0   70.0              0.90       6.60       0.99 OVR
Total REVJRREHT COSTS                63.1   111.4  111.4   111.4   111.4  111.4  731.5
==, = -== z=  ===
Total                              92.6  465.8  266.9  204.6  182.4  168.4  1643.0
(1> At S20,0JO ech.
(2M Including Furniture.
- Value scaled by 196.0  4/1/1991  12:29
cI



ECUADOR
Rural Devlopment
7ob.. 924. TRltANING AND COWIMNICATIONS COPONENT
Communicatlonse
Detailed Cost Table
Be" costs                            PFraeters
91-96 96/97 97/91  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Each. Gros Tai Sw. Aent.
Z. INVrST W    COSTS
A. Travel                         4.0   2.6   2.0  24.6             0.66       6.56       0.66 1W
3. 7.?Program                    53.4   0.9   0.6  26.8             6."        6.40       G."   M
C. ProJect LIbrary                8.6   *.0   8.0  68.6             6.66       6.68       6.    MISC
D. Equipment A Supplies            9.4   4.7   4.7   66.4             .0s       6.26       ..1 Ow
Total  IWEESTrT COS4.8   14.7  14.7  463.2
II. REC1EMaT STS
A. Project Ne.smpepr              26.0   19.6   10.6  120.0           6.96       6.96       6.66 COMw
O. HNusper Column                  4.4    2.2    2.2   26.4           6.66       6.96       6.08 CmN
C. News Bulletins                  4.4    2.2    2.2   26.4           6.96       6.6        6. ff CoW
D. Radio Program                   2.4    2.4    1.2   15.6           0.96       6.6    _  O. 6f CowM
E. Staff (1)                      12.0   12.6   6.6   78.6             .0        0.6  6     .0. 9. _
Total RECURRENT COSTS                43.2  26.6  21.6  266.4
= 2=  =I
Total                            118.0  43.5  36.3  869.6
<1) Two Staff & one seretary.
- Values scaled by 166.6 4f1/1991 12:28
c 6=
*



ECVAWl
Rural Ievelo_pmet
Table U81. PROECT ORGANIZATION COMPONENT
Coordination and Management
Detailed Cost Tablo
ON U#
to" Costs                                 Paramters
Unit 1"1/92 1M92/  1993/94 1994-93  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Cross Tax Sum. Aest.
t. DISES1IT COSTS
A. Vehieles for A4hin.        46 .6  M26.9    6.6    6.0  1171.0           6.66      1.6       6.6  VMS
8. C.str/lup of Field Offics   so.6   96.    816.0    0.6  186.6           6.10      0.43      9.6 SOG
C. Fid Office Eqpmt, Furntr    46.6   93.0   26.0    6.O  120.6            6.06      0.46      0.6  OFF
3. Main Off ice Equipmnt       56.0   76.6    0.6    6.6  125.6            6.66      0.46      6.6  OFF
Totl DESTN COST                  6.   945.6  56.06    9.  1696.6
tt. REODUST COSTS
A.  ilistry Levl
Director Gemra l            8.4    8.4    Z.4    8.4   28.8           6.66      6.0        6.M SAL
Secr eares                  4.7    4.7    4.7    4.7   82.7           6.66      6.60      6.61 SAL
kdaimistrative Assistant    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6   10.9           0.66      6.eo       6.d SAL
Office Clerks               8.6    8.6    3.6    3.6   20.8           6.66      9.ee      8.6  SAL
Driers                      2.6    2.6    2.8    2.6   19.6           6.60      0.66      6.96 SAL
Sub-Total                   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4  10798
8. Direcorate of Mrtrn/Evlm
Director - Evaluation       3.8    8.8    8.8    8.8   28.0           6.66      6.66      6.6  S^AL
Jefe - Evaluation          8.2    8.2    8.2    8.2   22.4            else      6.00      6.66 SAL
Exprt-Environmental lpct    1.8    1.6    1.6    1.8   12.4          0.066     6.066       .a SAL
Expert on TraIning          1.8    1.6    1.8    1.8   12.4           6.66      6.06      a." SAL
Typists                     1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8      .9          9.o       9.a       6.6  SAL
Secretary                   1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4   16.1           6.66      6.eo      9.e  SAL
Office Clerk                1.0    1.0    1.0    16e    6.9           0.06      #.6       00.6 SAL
Dri ver                     2.6    2.3    2.8    2.s   19.6           0.66      6.0       9.M SAL
Sub-Total                   16.5   16   1         10.5  115.7
C. Directorat of Operations
Director - Operations       8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8   28.0           9.66      9.66      6.1e SAL
Expert - Support A Coordn    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9   13.0         60.6       6 66      0.00 SAL
Exprt-Euvlronm_ntl Impact    1.8    1.6    1.8    1.8   12.4          0.66      6.66      v." SAL
Librarian                   1.6    1.5    1.5    1.5   16.8           6.65      e.66      6.66 SAL
Secretary                   1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4   16.1           9.66      6.66      6.66 SAL
Office Clerk                1.6    1.6    1.0    1.9    6.9           0.66      o.66      6.66 SAL
drivers                     4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2   29.8           0.66 6.eo           0.66f SAL
Sub-Total                   15.1   15.1   151   15.1  iWS
D. FinancD Oeprtment
Chlef Finanial Offic er     3.1    8.1    3.1    8.1   21.6           0.60      6.66      6.00 SAL
Tresswror                   8.1    8.1    3.1    8.1   21.6           6.66      0.66      6.6  SAL
Assistant                   1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    9.8          6.66       0.66      a."1 SAL
Financial Analyst          16.7   10.7   10.7   10.7   74.6          9.00       6.66      6.6  SAL
Chief Accountant           1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8   12.8           0.06       6.66      6.00   SAL
Accountants                13.3   18.8   18.8   13.8   93.1          a.oo       6.66      6.66 SAL
Guard                       1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    9.5          0.00       6.oo      6.66 SAL (Continuing)



Table 931 (Continued)
Secretaries                 8.6    3.6    8.e    8.0   26.7             0.60      6.60       9.e6 SAL
Office Clerks               3.0    2.a    8.6    3.6   20.6            6.60       0.60       6.eo SAL
Sub-Total                   46.7   46.7   4.7   46.7  284.6
E. Coetrecwton Departmnt
Chief Constuction Offlior    8.1    3.1    3.1    8.1   21.8           0.00       0.00       0.66 SAL
Chief of Constr. Expenses    8.1    3.1    8.1    3.1   21.8           0.00       o.00       0.66 SAL
Chief of Studies A Design    8.1    8.1    8.1    3.1   21.8           0.00       6.00       6.66 SAL
Supervisor - Roads          3.4    3.4    8.4    3.4   23.7            6.60       0.60       6.60 SAL
Supervisor- Canal Cons4r.    8.4    a.4    8.4    8.4   23.7           6.o0       0.w0       6.66 SAL
Secretaries                 4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2   29.3            6.60       o.0e       6 0 SAL
Office Clerk                1.0    1.0    1.6    1.0    6.9            6.00       0.a6       6.66 SAL
Drivers                     2.8    2.8    2.9    2.8   19.6            0.00       0.66       0.60 SAL
Sub-Total                   24.1   24.1   24.1   24.1  168.6
F. Legal Department
Asseor                      3.2    8.2    3.2    3.2   22.4            6.60       6.00       6.66 SAL
Legal Assistant             1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8   12.4            0.60       0.66       0.66 SAL
Secretary                   1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4   16.1            0.60       0.00       6.66 SAL
Sub-Total                    6.4   -.4    6.4    6.4   44.9
4. Procurement Departsnt
Procurent effcr (Layer)    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1   21.8             6.00       0.06       6.66 SAL
Secretaries                 2.8    2.6    2.8    2.6   19.6            0.00       6.66       6.66 SAL
Office Clerk                1.6    1.0    1.0    1.6    6.9            0.00       0.00       6.00 SAL
Sub-Total                    0.9    6.9    6.9    6.9   48.3
. Area Coordinating Unite
Chiefs                     34.9   34.9   34.9   34.9  244.3            0.60       6.00       6.66 SAL
Accounting Experts         17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9  125.3            0.60       6.00       6.60 SAL
Marketing Experts          17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9  125.3            0.60       0.00       6.00 SAL                                    W
Promoters - MID            17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9  126.3            6.60       0.60       6.66 SAL
Forestry Expert             7.6    7.5    7.5    7.5   52.2            6.00       0.06      6.06 SAL
Accountants                16.8   16.8   16.8   16.9  117.?            0.60       0.66      6.60 SAL
Socretorles                16.6   16.8   16.8   16.8  117.3            6.60       0.66      6.60 SAL
Stock Room Clerks          16.8   16.8   16.8   16.8  117.3            6.66       6.66       6.60 SAL
Driver/Clerks              16.8   16.8   16.8   16.8  117.3            0.00       6.00       0.00 SAL
Sub-Total                  163.1  163.1  163.1  163.1  1141.6
I. Per Diem A Travel
Per 01c                    48.3   48.3   48.8   48.3  388.1            6.6        6.60       6.60 PERDIEI
Travol                      5.3    6.3    6.3    6.3   37.4            6.66       6.66      6.66 PERDIEM
Sub-Total                   a3.6   53.6  65.6   53.6  375.5
J. Oprtn A Intn of Vehicles     56.0  156.7  160.7  156.7  962.2            6.e0       6.6e      6.60 SPARES
R. Materials and Supplies       14.5   14.6   14.5   14.6  101.4            0.66       0.20      6.60 MAT
L. Co-ordination Activities
Prep of Directives etc.    11.6    5.8    1.0    1.6   22.2            6.66       6.66       6.6 COWw
Meetings                    3.9    3.9    8.9    8.9   27.1            0.66       o.0o      6.60 COmm
Workshops with Local Grp.    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   48.7           6.66       0.66      0.66 COmm
Sub-Total                   22.4   16.6   11.8   11.8   98.0                                                                        0 i
_ ~~~-  - - - -- -- _- - - - - - - -
0
Total RECUIRT COSTS               48.7  528.7  618.8  618.6 3564.6                                                                         o
=== ==
Total                         1686.7  1468.7  690.8  618.8 6149.5
- Values scaled by 1666.0 4/1/1"91  12:29



ECUADOR
Rural Developmnt
Table 932. PROJECT ORGANIZATION COIONENT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Detailed Cost Table
en US1
Base Costs                                   Parameters
Unit  91/92 92/93 9Z/94 94/95 sS-97 97/98 Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
I. INVESTMEBT COSTS
A. Equipmnt
Typwriters/Calculators    19.9  10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.9           0.56       9.40      9.99 OFF
Personal Coputers       ie.0  ie.0  0*.    0.0   6.0   9.o  20.0            9.05      9.99       9.09 COYP
Sub-Total                  2e.e  2e.9   o.e   .e    o ..     .e  40.0
B. Evaluation
Base Line Study           40.0   9.0   9.9   9.9   9.9   9.9  40.0           0.56       0.90      9.99 STDS
Annual On-Going Evaluatn.   6.9   5.0   6.0   5.9   6.0   5.9  86.0         09.6       0.00      09.9  STDS
Mid-Term Evaluation       9.9   0.0   9.9  25.0   0.9   0.0  26.9            0..6      0 09       9.99 STDS
Ex-Post Evaluat;on        9.9   o.9   9.0  09.    9.9  89.0  80.0            0.095     9.99       9.a STOS
_ __-;- _ -  __ 6 -C  --- ---  - 
Sub-Total                  45.9   5.9   5.9  30.0   6.0  86.9  180.0
C. Vehicles                   60.0   0.0   9.9   0.0  09.    9.0  60.0            9.05      1.00      6.9a VNS
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          125.0  26.0   6.0  30.0   6.0  86.0 280.0
I1. RECUIRENT COSTS
A. Qurtrly Mntring Meeting    24.9  24.0  24.9  24.0  24.0  24.9 168.0            9.90   0 9.9e       9.0 CoMM
S. Oprtn i Mntec of Vehicle    6 .    8.9   8.9   8.0   8.0   8.0  6e.9           9.90      9.50      9.99 SPARES
C. Prmnmnt Staff
Professional             30.0  39.9  39.0  39.0  30.0  39.9 210.0            9.00      0.00       9.99 SAL
Support                   4.9   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0  28.0            9.90    0      0.99  9.  SAL
Sub-Total                 84.9  34.0  34.9  34.0  34.0  34.0 238.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS            6.9  6.9   6.9  6.9  6.9  66.9 462.0
= - = = = =
Totsl                        191.0  91.0  71.0  96.0  71.0 161.0 742.0
- Value scaled by 1W0.0 4/1/1991 12:29
a'
0 
N



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Tabl- 941. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
mUSS
Base Costa                                       Paramours
Unit 1001/92 1902/93 1993/94 1994/OS 199s/96 106-98  Total   Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sm. Acnt.
I. DrES1W COST
A. Toe  Validation & Trnsr
Lomal Advisr               86.0   54.6   64.0   64.6  38.6   36.0  36.6              6.66      6.6        6.06 LOCCON
Forelg Advisers           6e.6  126.6  120.0   66.0   86.6    6.6  896.6             6.66      1.90       6.66 nfTCCN
Sub-Toal                    s6.6  174.6  174.6  114.6   66.6   86.6  s9s.0
B. Forestry-Foreign Advisers    66.6   66.6   66.0   66.6   66.6    6.6  360.6           6.eo       1.66      6.66 INTeCC
C. Mssitoriag A Evalustion
Local Aisers               12.0   12.0   12.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   84.6            6.66   o .o6        6.66 LOCCON
Forelgn Advisers           66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   60.6   66.6  420.0            6.6f      1.66      S." INTcaN
Sub-Total                   72.0   7.6  7n.0   72.6   72.    72.u   64.0
D. Em vIr_tl Std Local Ad,.     12.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   64.6           6.66       6.66      6.66 LOCCON
E. Fanwr Org. Foreign Adv.     66.6   66.6   6e.6   66.6   66.6   60.6  420.6            0..6       1.61      6.66 INTCON
F. Post-'lrvest Proc a Nt9.    6e.6   66.6   66.0   6e.6   66.6   66.6  420.0            6.e6        1   ~     . 6.6  INTCCN
0. Troloag - Local Adviser*     12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.6   12.0   64.e           6.66                 6.06o LOCCON
H. lJD - Foreign Adviser       66.6   60.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.   420.6                                 6.W INTWCO
I. Irrigation - Local Advurs   16.0   18.6   18.6   16.6   18.6   18.0  126.6            0 of                 6.0 LWCCON
J. Isettal Dew Local Adviser    12.0   12.0   12.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   64.0           C..,       j.6       6.6" LOCCON
R. Agrol 1dutries - Loc Ad,.    18.6   18.0   18.6   18.0   16.6   18.0  126.0           Gf!        0.66      6.66 LOCCON
L. Land Titl ng - Local Adv.    24.0   24.0   24.6    6.6    6.6    6.6   72.6           6.9        6.6ff     6." LOCCaN
U. Support to WS/SSDR
GIm Coed. - Fore19g Adv.   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6  420.0            6.66      1.66      6." INTCON
Accousting/FPi Local Adv.    6.6   86.6   86.6   86.6   a6.6   36.   262.0           a.eo      6.6       6.66 LOCCON
Procurement Local Advrs s6.6 ao.o   86.0  38.6   86.6   18.0  216.0                  6.66      S.eo      o.6 LOCCON
14t. of FODECO Local Ad,   18.0   16.6   16.6   18.6   16.6   16.6  126.0            6.66      6.        6."66 LOCCON
TraiiulqJnst Dew - Local   12.0   12.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.6   64.0            6.66      6.6       6.66 LOCCON
Legl - Locel Advisers  a 6.6   86.6   86.0   18.0   16.0   18.6  1                   0.06      6.6       B."6.  LOCCON
I.rstrctr Supvsn - Local   72.6   72.6   72.6   72.6   72.6   72.6  564.6           6.66       6.6       S.66 LOCCON
Evls of Coptr A Sftvr Dw    560.0  160.0   56.6   so.6   So.6    6.6  856.6          6.66      6.66      6.66 LOCCON
I&tAfta/Prop of ProJects  466.6  8.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6 1200.0             6.66       6.66      6.66 LOCCON
S1-Total                  726.6 1226.6  826.6  862.6   o2.6  284.6 8882.e
N. Auditor Local               56.6  56.6  56.6   56.6  56.6   56.6  856.6               6.66       6.e       6.6  LOCCON
Total DtESTE9T COSTS            1274.6 1662.6  062.6  66.6  662. 6  644.6 7e61.6
II. UECURNDIT COSTS                                                                                                                     0 
A. GIbl Ugt A Adamn Svpport    127.4  165.2   95.2   86.0   80.2   64.4  701.8           6.66      6.66       6.66 ADM!
Totel RECUWAtOf COSTS            127.4  165.2  90.2   85.6   80.2   64.4  701.6                                                         °
Total                         1461.4 2067.2 1647.2  908.0  662.2  708.4 7719.8
- Value scled by 1.0  4/1/1991  12:29



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
SUMHARY PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN



ECUADOR
Rural Developm te
Table  1.    Project Coat Summary
H. Suer"                          M66 US2                      X Total
X Foreign     ea.s
Local  ForeIgn    Total        Local  Foreign    Total    Exchane    Costs
A. Irrigatior A Flood Cntrl.
1. Epejo-ilra                  616.6   a88.7    997.2         696.7    436.1   1126.8         83.2      1.1
2. T ebaundo                  1896.8    892.6   2209.0       1657.6   1608.6   2586.4         89.9       2.4
8. Congehue                   2966.6   1889.2   4864.8       8851.0   2184.7   1485.7         88.9       5.2
4. lmil (TTP) Boj             1609.0    97n.1   2479.2       17M8.1   1998.2   2601.          839.1      2.6
S. Aluml? (MT)P Norte          887.9    212.0    699.9        48c.8    289.5    677.8         85.8      6.6
6. Sonta Isabel               1164.1    688.4   1792.5       1247.5    777.9   2M6.4          30.4       1.9
7. La Herridure               8796.5   2061.9   6847.4       4288.7   2816.5   6607.2         85.1      6.2
3. Pla-Jigoual                8697.8   1557.4   4056.2       8506.4   1769.7   6268.1         88.5      4.9
9. Water Course                778.9    628.8   1302.2        889.1    691.8   1471.4         40.2      1.4
Sub-Total                       16661.7   9166.5  24617.8      I7e86.6   1a686.6  28642.1        86.9     26.4
. Applied Reserch                 977.6    361.4   1839.0       1164.6    468.4   1618.6         27.6      1.4
C. Tranftr of Technology         4997.7    643.9   5641.7       664.:.2    727.6   8374.7        11.4      6.6
D. Foretry DevloV _t             1745.5    486.4   2181.9       1972.3    498.1   2466.4         20.9      2.3
E. On-fere Investmnt             8124.6    66.8   8929.9        9180.8    969.9  166960.          9.6      9.6
F. Post.-Hnart Work
1. Regional Proe ssing         657.5     78.1    730.6        742.9     82.6    826.6         16.6      0.8
2. Improvemnts of Markets       82.6     64.7    647.4        658.8     78.1    781.6         16.0      6.7
8. Pilot Enterprises           107.8     18.6    185.8        189.6     21.0    216.0         16.6      0.2
4. Institutional Svpport       438.5    188.6    622.2        49s.5    207.6    768.6         29.5      6.7
S. Post-Harvest Studies        169.8    306.2    265.5        180.6    120.0    aoe.6         46.0      6.8
SUb-Total                        2665.2    448.2   2461.4       2265.8    604.2   2776.6         18.2      2.6
0. Com unity 0.v Fhnd
1. Morket"g A Processing      2946.3   1164.5   4649.0       8828.0   1246.6   4676.0         27.8      4.8                                           O
2. Productive Projeote        2126.8    797.4   2028.7       2402.6    961.0   8888.6         27.8      *.1
Sub-Total 671.6   1961.9   6978.6                              5786.6   2149.6   7879.6         27.8      7.4
H. Rural Roads                  12878.5   8842.6  21721.1      14652.0   999.6  24548.6          46.7     28.1
1. Water Harvestlog             1494.8    O8.6   2458.6        1689.6   189.1   2778.1          89.2       2.6
J. Land Tenure Regplarlstr       1409.8    825.5   1784.6       1592.4   u87.8   1966.2          18.8      1.6
R. Environmental Comonent         8J8.4     72.?    761.1        777.9     82.1    8e6.6          9.6      O.6
L. Training A Cm u leation
1. Trn". of Beneficiaries      66.1    236.7    786.6        656.6    267.5    882.5          82.1      6.6
2. Training of Staff           869.7    106.2    416.9       856.0    126.0    470.0          26.6      0.4
8. Irrigation Training        1120.4    246.1   1865.6       1266.6    277.0   1S48.6         16s.      1.5
4. Co m ucation                462.8    189.6    592.6        511.6    160.6    689.6         28.8      6.6
Sub-Total                       2888.0    727.9   8116.9       2892.6    622.5   3515.1         28.4       8.8
V. Project Orgaization
1. Coordination A Mgmt.       2922.9   1684.4   4557.8      8862.7   1646.6   5149.6          35.9      4.6
2. Minitoring A Evaluation     656.8    166.9    668.7       628.6    114.6    742.6          16.4      6.7
Sub-Total                        8478.6   1786.8   5218.9      8986.7   1966.6   6891.6         88.8       5.5
N. Technical Assistance          4862.9   2469.1   6832.6      4929.8   2796.9   7712.8         86.1       7.3 8
_ ~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - - - - - - _-------------_- - -- -     - -- _-- - - - __--                              to
Total BASELINE COSTS            626.6  28897.6  94167.1       73760.9  82652.6  106463.6        86.7    166.6                                     o 
Physical Conting ncies        228s.6   1436.1   8721.7       268a.7   1621.6   4266.8         as.6      4.0 9
Price Contingsncles             6.6   1826.9   1626.9          0.9   2664.3   2664.3         166.6      1.9
------------                    ----------------- - --- -- -
Total PROJECTS COSTS            67556.1  32159.6  99716.7      76834.6  aa386.6 112678.1         82.8    106.9
MuMazz am z=z          I I muumuma
-------------------------- -     --- - ----        ------
Values Scaled by ISO.* - 4/1/1991  13:6s



ECUADOR
Rural  eelopmet
00 USS
Table  2.    Project Componewt. by Yeer
Base Coat                                         Total
1991/92   1992/93   1998/94   1994/9S   1995/98   1996/97   1997/91   eeuSS  noes
A. Irripetlon A Flood Cantr.
1. Espejo-uira                    119.1    459.8     418.7      15.8      16.8      15.3      15.8   1126.6   1126.8
2. Tabwewado                      178.0   1210.6   1072.0       26.9      84.8      34.3      84.8   2506.4    2160.4
3. Cengehue                       162.0   2889.6    881.6   1640.6    416.5         60.e      Mo.6   5485.7   54.T
4. Alumis (TP) 6.j.              1128.6    861.1    648.2    817.4    812.1         22.0      22.0    2061.8   2991.3
S. Alum) (TIP) Norte             656.0        6.6      18.0     19.2      19.2      19.2      19.2    677.S    677.6
S. Seats Isabel                   226.4    829.6    489.6    604.7    813.6         29.6      29.8   2925.4   2625.4
7. La Hwreduru                    852.4   1225.0   1948.6   1381.5   1478.3    147.2    147.2   6187.2   6187.2
S. P.l.-Jiu,l                    672.9   1184.5   1189.4      859.6   1640.7    206.8       26.8   5210.1   6218.1
9. Water Coars.                   468.6    26S.8     265.      265.9    266.9        6.9       6.6   1471.4   1471.4
sub-total                         a8:4.3   7894.2   6896.7    5672.9   80ss.3    584.6    534.6  2942.1  26942.1
S. Applied R_earcl                  m.2    275.6    288.6   10.1    166.1    160.1            161.1   1651.0   1651.0
C. Tranafor of Technology            7.s9    744.9    699.1    1096.6   1048.6    965.6    966.6   6874.7   6374.7
0. Forestry Dwelopmt                654.6    891.2     478.8    494.4    562.8         6.6       6.0   2465.4   2466.4
E. On-farn Invetment               1878.6   2696.9   8266.6   2182.0    6.6            9.0       6.6  1in 9.   1is .$
F. Post-larvemt Work
1. Regioel Procesing              186.1    286.1     268.1      68.5      76.7       9.6       0.6   -25.6    82C.5
2. Imprmet of brloete             159.2    228.8    110.9    14060        94.7      48.4      16.6    781.5    781.5
8. Pilot Enterprise                16       18.6      60.0      66.6      26.0       6.0       6.6     216.6    216.6
4. Institut)onel Suprt            166.8    106.2      62.2      62.2      82.2      62.2      82.2     78.0    768.6
5. Post-larvest Studioe            65.6      6.6      18.0      55.6      45.0      16.9       6.6     366.6    36.0
Sub-totel                           66.1    784.6    571.2    405.7    822.6    185.6           92.2   2776.6   277n.o
0. Comunity Dw  Fund
1. Uoar*tng A Processing          884.4    965.6   1144.0   1978.6    051.2        261.6    106.0    4576.6   4579.0 
2. Produtive Projet               41n.6 .    42.4    6s9.8    562.6    499.5    410.9    261.0   8868.6   886.6
Sub-total                           762.9   1626.6   1788.8   1656.6   115.7    692.5          866.6    7679.6    779.6
H. Rural Re                        76.6   75560.0   7514.8   S5o.6    517.9    889.7    88.7   24548.6  24S48.6
I. leter Harvetting                 642.9   658.6    588.6    588.8    588.8           6.6        6     277o.1   2773.1
J. Lend Te_ro Reglarlactn          1297.1    668.1       6.6        .6        .6       6.6       0.0    19".2   196.2
K. Environmental Componet           238.0    242.0    117.6       57.6    162.0       57.6      77.6    366.9 #866.
L. Tralming S C_ unlcattons
1. Tr". of UScfclenirles          117.4    184.8    162.6    189.8    105.6    191.6          79.8    682.5    682.5
2. Training of Staff              145.0    116.6      90.6      90.6      45.0       6.9       6.6     470.0    475.9
3. Irrigation Traoning             92.6    455.6    256.9    234.6    182.4    182.4    166.4   1543.9   1548.0
4. Comunlcations                 113.0   l1.6    118.9    116.6    118.6          48.5      86.8    189.6      69.6
Sub-totl                            472.3    818.6    627.5    542.2    451.6    827.5    276.6          5156.1   8516.1
V. Project Orga.Iaatton
1. Coordilnaton A Ult.           1686.7   1468.7    568.8      516.8    518.8      518.8    518.8   5149.5    5149.5
2. tomitortng A Evaluation        191.6     91.0      71.6      96.9      71.0      71.9    161.9    742.0    742.9
Sub-total                          1227.7   1659.7    689.6    614.8    569.6        589.8    669.6    691.5   5691.5
N. Technical Asslisne              1401.4   2687.2   1047.2    985.0    682.2    708.4    766.4   7719.8   7719.3                                      is
____ ___ ___       ____         ___        ___       _______                                           ooI.
Total 9ASEDIE COSTS               21281.0  27611.6  24541.7  14164.2  16622.0   4482.1   4119 .   106408.6  108403 68. 5X
Physical Contignclee           1081.7   1211.7    968.9    627.7    396.6          0.2       4.2   4266.8   4206.a                                 1
Price ContiUgeies                197.5    602.2    482.6    29M.2    320.6    126.1    141.9    2664.8    2664.8                                    O
Totat PROJECT COSTS               2251.2  28795.7  26018.8  15665.1  11588.4    4U55.4   4256.9  112678.1  112678.1 
Tomo                               0.0       0.0      0.0       o.e       oo0       9.0       oo0       eo0       0
Foreign Exchange                6997.0  10140.8  8O99.1   4211.8   8225.1    931.8    684.0  36386.5  36838.5
Value Scaled by 1in.0 4/1/1991  12:32



Rua 9vlnen
Ihntl le_pot 
Table 3.    Projet. C.ngeaena by year
Total. Inolung Ceetlalc
1M0/2  1C2/09  19M/94  1994/95  1001,96  196/17  197/           Tesul
A. IrrigtIo   A Flod Catri.
I. Espajo-lipa                  181.4    618.4    548.2      15.4     15.6      15.5     15.0   12i.9
2. Tabc_nm                      191.1   1342.9   1193.1      27.1     84.7      34.9     *5.9   M3.7
S. Cangahu                      173.9   2677.3    02.1   11.1i   460.5           .0      01.2   6126.5
4. Alml: (TP) SIbe             1239.7    40.2    719.9    86S.4    846.7        22.8     22.5   81W9.J
S. AlmI  (lip) Norte              S.6      3.5      13.1     19.3      19.4     19.5     19.6      89.5
6. Sant Ilmb.                   212.1     W.5    547.1    878.3    849.5        30.8      U.4   2281.2
7. La Nwr"ra                    369.7   1833.    2111.0   1465.8   168.4    149.6    13.2   7285.5
S. Pul-Jlgal                    70.2    m4.4   12#5.0    046.6   1347.8    210.0    211.0  5679.5
9. Water Cors                   43.6    296.       297.4    209.5    898.7       .6       9.0   1646.1
Sub-Total                         4151.3   36.9   7665.9  5652.4   489.6    54t.6    54.6  86614.1
S. Applled Reaurch                 402.6   232.1    244.8    13.1    130.1    155.1   1C.1   1520.3
C. Tra_dr of Tchlogy               757.     751.6   934.0   1M.0    154.8    910.6    911.4   6417.2
O. Forestry Sovel-pmt              596.3    423.8    528.5      49.1    616.4       e.6      0.9   2714.2
E. 0-far. Inv_tmm                 18A.6   2714.1   8272.4   2147.5    61.6         6.6       5.6  16140.7
F. Post-ftrvews Work
1. Ibglo"l Prece sl             1U8.4    281.6    269.6      64.9     76.6      9.6  0     .0 e   I.2
2. 1.eov.mnta of Mhrhote        109.5    224.5    111.5    141.0      96.7      44.1     16.2    786.6
8. Plolt En.rptls                10.0     s5.8      55.8     65.5     25.8       0.0      0.0    211.4
4. In.ltttimal Support          15.9   1i6.9    P2.3         62.9     68.3      38.6     64.8    713.9
S. Post-l1mrvue  Studies         65.7    e6.5      01.4    56.4       47.1      16.0      0.0    397.1
Sub-Total                          512.6    745.3    575.6    499.9    823.       187.6     94.5   2790.1
6. Co_mmlty Dow Fund
1. Ulmeagr   Proceeslag         886.7    099.6   1161.9   169.5    670.6    298.6    111.5   4669.6
2. Ic     v Project             421.4    53.1    596.5    50.9 0      14.6    423.4    275.6  832.4
Sob-Total                          7.1   1U49.7   1781.4   1609.4           4    722.1    U7.1        2.1
R. Rural Road.                    6242.3   5664.2   657.5    510.5    584.0    84.2    351.6  26126.8
I. late"  waretino                69.6    596.9    597.2   831.4    660.7           *.6      5.6   81".9
J. Lad Tenre Reglarizaot          162.4      We *       .e       0.9      6.6      U.S       9.9   2462.4
R. Emvlrsn -t l Copnent           2M9.9    248.1    117.1      57.1    16.8       57.8     77.8    364.8
L. Tralilg A C,ilcatlin.
1. Trag. of llofliarlee         11.5    137.8    166.6    143.3    1n.5   I.6           71.7    311.5
2. Tralminn of Staff            145.7    111.6     01.7      62.2     45.6      0.6       5.6    476.8
8. Irristion TraIr'g             92.7    466.3    258.7    255.1    138.2    1.5    169.3   1659.3
4. Communications               118.7    119.5    119.6    129.1    121.2       44.4     87.5    631.1
Sub-Total                          475.6    055.2    68.7    55.6    457.6    8.6    279.1   8563.7
. Projet Orgla.itl.n
1. Ceordlatleon A Opt.         1.4    1524.8    577.6    $24.7    527.5    Ul.1    584.9   5276.A P
2. VsniterIng A Evaluation      199.J     98.2     71.5      97.6     71.7      71.9    13.1    761                                          0 
Sub-Totl                          1255.6   1617.4    649.1    e22.5    599.2    32.9    696.9   6807.7
N. Tlchnical Assiltenc            1411.9   2662.2   1074.7   906.4    925.8    7S5.4    769.9   79.9                                            0
Tetl PROJECTS COST               22515.2  2796.7  2691.1  1566.1  11588.4   4656.4   4268.9 112678.1
Valu  Scaled by 1a.0 4/1/91  12uS2



ECUADOR
Rural Deelopment 
Table 4.   sam_ cy cent Cost Sumary
M. SureMe US$                                                 X Total
_ _ -- -   X Foreign   "M
Local  Foerign    Total        Locel  Foregln    Total    Exehaop      Coet
1.  _ TWEST  COST
A. Table"l
1 4 a 4., te.                    6.0   1846.3   1846.8          6.6   206 .6   2616.e        166.o      2.0
2. Veber Cyclee                  0.0    264.4    264.4          6.6    296.6    296.e        100.0      6.3
Sub-Total                           0.0   2106.2   2105.2          0.0   2373.6   237m.e        165.6      t.2
B. Equip mt
1. Pmpa                        168.4    155.1    256.5        li6.S    175.3    292.1         eo.6      6.3
2. Office A Laboratory *qp.    295.2    198.3    48.56        883.6    218.4    662.6         89.6      09.
S. compete"                     16.6     95.6    166.2         12.0    101.0    126.0         96.6      6.1
4. Crop ProcesIng *qp.           0.6      0.0 6      .6         e.g      O.6      6.0          6.6      6.6
S. Otbers                     1073.6    406.2   1478.2       1212.4    462.2   1664.6         27.2      1.6
Sub-Total                        1462.8    844.1   2326.4       1074.9    953.8   2626.7         #6.3      2.6
C. Civil Works
1. 8o1w dlga                   398.9    299.4    696.8        448.6    338.8    786.6         48.e      0.7
2. Caale A Embankme.ta       97U8.6   788.6  17164.0       110U4.0   6889.6  19894.4         48.6     13.2
3. Tunels                      470.1    354.7    824.8        531.2    400.8    982.6         48.6      6.9
4. Roads                     12817.6   9867.5  21646.2      18941.0  19516.9  24457.9         48.0     28.0
S. otbe                       2437.4    811.6   8248.4       2754.1    916.4   8676.5         26.0      8.4
Sub-Total                       25425.7  18158.1  48578.e      28729.6  26512.0  49241.6         41.7     46.3
D. Land                            41.1      6.6     41.1         4t.4      6.6     46.4          6.6      ..6
E. P@t.-lrvet Prcng& Mktg        1467.4    156.4   1568.6       1590.8    170.7   1767.0         10.0      1.7
F. t ehrtcal Aseletanc
1. Internatioeal Coelet           .6   2557.6   26657.0         .6   2696.    289.6           9.        2.7 
2. Local Comeltanu            4511.7      9.6   4611.7       S698.6      6.6    59.6           6.       4.3                                             0
8. Travl                        16.6     16.6      21.2        12.0     12.0      24.6        56.6      6.6
4. Studlje                     618.4      6.6    618.4        698.1      6.6    69.1           6.        .7
S. Couree A S_minar           1687.5    496.5   2184.0       166.8   561.6   2411.8           23.3      2.3
Sub-Total                        677.3   8S4.6   968.1          766.4   8468.6  11116.4          81.2     10.4
0. Community Dev. Fnd            4487.7   19.9  6S8.5           5014.8   2149.0   7168.8         86.6      6.7
H. On-Form I.ve.tmat             3124.6  e 5.8   8929.9         9186.8    969.9  161W.8           9.6      9.5
I. Variou
1. Eglemrwig Adialrtr t       231.9    251.6   258.5         2634.9    264.8   2919.2          9.7      2.7
2. Premtiom                    24.6.    114.2   s86.8         27.6    129.1    467.6          81.7      0.4
8. Uleellane..                1642.5     86.2   12.7         18.9       97.4   1958.3          5.6      1.6
Sub-Total                        4226.9    462.6   4672.9       479       516.6   5286.1          9.7      5.6
Tota INVESTT COSTS              51912.9  27462.6  7985.7       5656.6  81n64.6  69712.7          84.6     64.8
II. RECUlEN COSTS
A. Operating & Uintenwac
1. Irrigatlo Component       2165.0    242.6   2427.8       2469.0    274.8   2748.3         10.0      2.6                                    W 
2. Reod Maintenae              966.6    422.7   1469.6       1114.6    477.6   1592.1         86.6      1.5
(Continuing)



Table 4 (Continued)
Sub-TotaI                          3883.5   1377.7   5281.2         4388.2   1666.7   6944.9           26.2       5.6
8. Porsonal
1. Per Diem                     1774.8       6.0   1774.8        2006.6       0.0   2006.5      *     .0       1.9
2. Incremental Salaries         5711.4       0.0   5711.4        6463.0       0.0   6453.6           o.6       6.1
3. Short-Term Consulteats        119.6       0.0     119.6        135.6       0.0    136.0           0.0       6.1
Sub-Total                          7606.7       0.6    7665.7       854.1        6.6   8594.1           9.0       6.1
C. Comm_ ication                    402.1       0.0    402.1         464.4       0.6    464.4           6.0       6.4
0. Adinistration                   1266.0       6.6   1266.0        1418.1       6.0   1418.1           0.0       1.a
E. Various
1. Vaterials A Supplies          148.3      37.1     186.4        167.6      41.9    209.4          20.6      6.2
2. Otber                          61.9       0.6      61.9         76.6       6.6      70.6          0.6      9.1
Sub-Total                           216.2      37.1    247.3         237.6      41.9    279.4          16.6      6.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS             19356.7    1414.7   14771.4      15692.3   1698.6   16696.8           9.6      15.7
Total BASELINE COSTS              66269.6  28897.6  94167.1        73756.9  32652.6  166463.5          80.7     106.0
Physical Contingeclos           2286.6   1436.1   3721.7         2583.7   1621.6   4205.3           38.6       4.0
Price Contingencios                0.0   1826.9   1826.9            0.0   2664.3    2064.3         166.6       1.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS              67660.1   32169.6   99715.7      76334.6  38338.6  112673.1          32.3     1065.9
Values Scaled bi  1600.6 -  4/1/191  13:67
00 
0



ECUADOR
RuraI Development
Table 5.    Smary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                       Foreign Exclsn
1991/92  1992/93   1998/94  1994/95  1996/96  1996fO9  1997/98    Total          X   Amount
1. IWNSTIN COSTS
A. Vehicles
1. 4 x 49, etc.               1666.6   1612.       0.6       6.6      6.6       6.6      9.0   2es6.o       166.6   2696.0
2. Mtor Cycleo                 168.5     67.6     85.7      42.6      6.6       6.6      6.o    299.3      1se.6    296.3
Sub-total                        1231.5   1669.6    38.7       42.0      0.0       e.6      6.e   2876.3       166.6   2373.8
B. Equipmet
1. PumO                         6.6      69.6    262.6       6.6      6.6       6.6      6.6    292.1        6e.6    175.3
2. Office & Laboratory eqp.    182.6    264.4      eo.6      e.6     26.6       6.6      6.6    652.6        89.6    213.4
3. Compvuter                   116.6     1.6       6.6       6.6      6.6       6.6      6.6    126.3        96.6    166.6
4. Crop Procesing eqp.          6.6       6.6      6.6       e.6      6.6 e.6            6.6      6.6         6.6      o.o
s. Others                      6ll.6    174.9    s24.9    172.2    172.2        4.7      4.7   1684.6        27.2    452.2
Sub-total                         968.6   s58.9    367.4    172.2    197.2         4.7      4.?   2623.7        86.8    956.
C. Civil Work
1. Buildigs                    o.6       96.6    876.7    188.1    188.6        6.6      6.6    786.3        4a.6    888.3
2. Canals A Ebrmnb  ntI       ae89.9   63B.7   4323.6   89S1.6   2166.6         6.6      6.6  19394.4        43.6   3339.6
8. Tomnls                       6.6    462.0    476.6        eI6      6.6       6.6      6.6    982.6        43.6    466.3
4. Roads                      7911.5   3899.1   7669.8      92.4    496.6       6.6      6.6  244S7.9        48.6  10616.9
S. Others                      466.4    326.s    442.1   1131.6   1364.5        6.       6.6   867.5         25.6    916.4
Sub-total                       11467.3  14646.8  18665.7   sae8.1   4165.7        6.6      6.6  49241.6        41.7  26112.6
D. Lend                           46.4       e.e      e.6       6.6      o.e       6.6      6.6     46.4         6.6      9.6
E. Post-Harvest Prcmn  Mktg       257.3   S66.4    429.6    268.6    195.4        48.4     19.6   1767.6        16.6    176.7
F. Techical Assistanc
1. International Consultants    445.6   6S6.6   s56.6    436.6    465.6    86.6    866.6   2396.6           1s6.6   2396.6
2. Local Conseltanta          1864.6   1562.6    s72.6    476.0    462.6    874.6    834.6   ses9.6           6.6      6.6
8. Travel                        4.0      4.0      4.6       4.6      4.6       2.6      2.6      24.0      56.0      12.6
4. Studies                     161.9     61.s     68.9      98.9     63.9      6s.9    14349    693.1         6.6      6.6
S. Coures & Sminare s85.2    419.1    466.S    896.2    815.6    266.6    221.2   2411.3                     28.8    561.6
Sub-total                        2226.6   2541.6   1683.S   1399.2   1286.6   1611.6   1956.1  11116.4          31.2   8463.6
G. Conity Dow. Fuod              664.5   1869.1   1575.?   1665.1   1646.1    629.r    888.2   7168e.3           e.6   2149.0
H. Os-Farm Inovestmnt            1878.6   2989.9   8256.3   2182.6   68a.         6.o       6.6   16.3           9.6    969.9
I. Vrioes
1. Enginering Adoielstrttn     616.6    742.2    679.0    588.3    442.6        .6       6.6   2919.2         9.?    234.8
2. Promotion                   169.2    65.4      76.4      76.4     76.4      17.6     17.6    467.e        31.7    120.1
8. wisellsnoes                 216.3    25.6    267.2    821.6    a88.2    293.6    293.6   1958.8            s.e     97.4
Sub-total                         641.6   1626.    1616.6    983.2    851.2    816.6    310.0   5266.1           9.7    616.6
Total NVES1IT COSTS            19626.3  24466.8  22419.4  117S6.2  6823.6   1993.6   1714.1  312.7             84.6  310c4.0
11. RECUN  COSTS
J. Operating A Mainteace
1. Irrigation Component        196.6    226.4    299.9    426.2    522.6    684.6    584.6   2743.8          16.6    274.8
2. Road Maintenance             6.6     16.6    260.0      56.0   3 886.7    886.7    886.7   1592.1         8e.6    477.6
3. Vehicle Muaitenane          158.     266.4    288.6    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.7   1669.5          56.6    664.7
Sub-total                        852.1    56".6    782.9    966.9   1094.6   1106.0   1116.6   5944.9           26.2   1566.7
K. Personel 
1. Per olem                   424.7    437.4    206.3    284.8    284.8    284.3    234.3   266S.5            6.6      6.6                       X
2. Incremental Salaries       1667.8   1117.8   862.8   862.6   682.6   s62.6    US.$   8458.6                6.6      6.6
3. Short-Term Consultant        ao.6     ao.0     1s.6      16.6     161.6     16.6     15.9    13S.6         6.6      6.6                     0
(Continuing)                            F



Table 5 (Continued)
Sub-total                        1642.6   15865.    1624.0   1112.6   1112.6   1112.6   1166.0   1694.1           U.0      6.6
L. CmunIccatio                    77.6      71.6     67.6      67.0      67.0     52.5      51.4    454.4        0.6       6.6
H. Adminitration                  195.6    324.1    252.6    285.5    164.8    127.4        97.7   1416.1        9.0       6.0
N. Verimw
1. materials A Supplies         20.6     85.5      85.5     85.6      25.5     25.5      25.5    269.4        20.0     41.9
2. Otber                        10.0     10.0      10.6     10.0      10.0     10.6      10.0     76.0        *.0       0.6
Sub-total                          86.6     45.5     45.5      45.5      35.5     85.5      85.5    279.4        15.6     41.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS            2264.7   2613.5   2122.2   2427.0   2498.4   2488.5   2896.7  1O696.6           9.6   1696.6
Total BASELINE COSTS            21231.0  27661.6  24541.7  14164.2  19822.0   4432.1   4116.6  168483.5         80.7  82652.6
Physical Contisg -el"         1081.7   1211.7    966.9    627.7    890.9        0.2       4.2   4265.8       8$.6   1621.6
Price Co"tIn i clo             197.5    602.2    462.8    298.2    820.6    120.1    141.9   2664.8          100.6   2664.3
eeeeneeefa                              neeaea                  .e 
Total PROJECT COSTS             22516.2  28795.7  218.8  1560065.1  11538.4   4568.4   4256.9 112678.1          82.8  86388.6
Taxe                             6.6      0.0       0.0      6.0       0.0      0.0       6.6      6.6        6.6       6.6
Foreign Exchange              89.0  10140.8   6899.1   4211.3   8225.1    981.8   684.0  3688.6              191.0  86886.5
Talmue Sealed by 1I.0 4/1/1991  14:19
0@E
*.8



Table 6.   Summary Accoetst by Year
Totals ladedlag Coatlagsncle
mISS
IM/92  1m/98  199I/94  1994/95  19/96  10S/97  1997/9    Total
1. DWISlN  COSTS
A. Vetcles
1. 4 a 4o* *tc.              1147.3   1364.7      3.3      3.e     3.3      3.o      *.    2211.7
2. doter Cycles               167.6    09.6    87.7    45.1         .J       0.0     *.0   8111.1
Ssb-Tetal                       1814.6   1125.8    87.7    4S.1       9.3      0.0      *.0   2522.3
S. Equlpuwa
1. Pmps                         3.3    92.4    209.5       *.0      *.3     3.0      *.J    8.9
2. Offlie S Laboratory *qp.   134.9    270.4    31.8       3.3    20.1      *.0      *.J   56.2
S. Computeor                  183.6     11.0      3.3      *.3      3.3     3.3      3.3   149.5
4. Crop Prec el*# eqp.          3.3      3.0      o.3      0.3     3.3      3.3      3.3      3.0
S. Others                     651.2    176.7    587.3    174.3   178.0      4.3      4.9   1726.2
Sub-Total                        974.6   565.5    329.1    174.9   232.1       4.8      4.9   274U.8
C. Civil Works
1. Isi dtess                  6S.7    101.2    417.3    151.1    165.2       .0      8.3    80.1
2. Canl  Euben  nto         u85.4  t087.9   6486.8   4486.6   2439.S        3.0      *.0  21316.
8. Towels                       O.J    619.6    529.3      *.0      3.0      .       *.3   1349.8
4. Road                      3896.4   9316.6   3813.0    133.1   545.1      3.3      3.3  26191.3
S. Other                      449.8   382.9   491.9   1263.4   1547.9       0.0      3.3   4120.J
Sabb-Total                     12847.3  1083.2  11339.4   036.8   4785.7       o.3      3.o  54187.8
D. Land                           46.4      3.3      3.J     8.3      d.9      0.3      8.3    46.4
E. Potl-Harvest Prasai Ofte      257.9   566.$    481.5    273.5    197.6    44.1    10.2   1773.1
F. Tecmlcal Assistanc
1. Intarnstloosl Con eltnts    456.1   658.8    523.7   467.6   449.7   847.0    #1.5    141.9
2. Local Ceeslta"te          184.0   1532.3    672.0   470.3   462.3   874.3    384.3   59.
8. Traeol                       4.0      4.1      4.1      4.1     4.2      2.2      2.2    25.3
4. Studies                    164.1    31.7    69.2    96.4    69.2    69.2    165.2   732.1
5. Courses A Semiars         837.6    426.9   499.3    432.3   817.9   279.1    222.2   2445.7
Sub-Total                       2285.9   2575.2   1678.3   1489.2   1838.0   1362.4   1128.1  11412.7
0. C. InltDew. Fuds              639.6   1413.3   1632.8   1583.9   1333.7    SS9.1    865.3   788.7
H. O-Far. In_e oet              1876.6   2714.1   8272.4   2147.5    68.       9J.      3.3  12143.7
I. VarIou
1. ERglnearlg AdIlestretr     513.2   745.5    62.6    542.5   447.8        *.3      3.3   2986.5
2. ProtIs"                    124.4    54.6      71.6    72.3      n.7    17.9    17.    429.1
S. Usellaes                   229.    223.3    263.9   821.9    89.9   298.9    294.2   1971.2
Sub-Totel                        371.3   1827.9   1922.1   986.4    3o.4    813.9    811.2   5840.8
Total INESTEN  COSTS           23116.8  266.8  23s73.3  12665.7   9339.5   2311.4   133.2  95455.8 
It. REOURRENT COSTS                                                                                  (Continuing)                        0K



Table 6 (Continued)
A. Operating a&  Mintema
1. Irrigatio Component         199.6    227.6    861.0    429.4    528.4    54.9    645.6.  2nc.0
2. Road bit.O ero                0.9    161.6    208.4    M8.7    341.7    346.2    851.6   1659.7
8. Vehicle miten amne          169.6    275.9    289.7    249.7    254.8    269.6    265.4   1M7.9
Sub-To.l                          868.1    695.0    744.6    965.9   1124.0   1148.6   1162.9   6188.6
B. P.rron l
1. P.r Dit_                    493.4    601.2    208.3    284.3    284.8    284.3    234.8   2187.9
2. Incrmoantal Salaries       1196.8   1209.8    862.6    862.A    862.8    862.6    656.6   6655.5
I. Short-Torn Coneulante        80.9     30.0     15.0      15.0     15.0     15.9      15.9    185.6
Sub-Total                        1721.7   1740.5   2624.0   1112.0   1112.0   1112.3   11M.9   6926.4
C. Comonication                    77.6     71.8     67.0      67.O     67.9     52.6     51.4    464.4
0. dministration                  195.8    324.1    262.8    236.6    184.6    127.4      97.7   1418.1
E. Various
1. Materials a Supp2els         26.6     35.9     86.9    386.0      26.1     26.3     26.5    218.8
2. Other                        16.9     19.9     10.0      10.0     10.0     19.9      19.9     79.9
Sub-Total                          36.6     46.9     45.9      46.0     86.1     36.8     36.5    283.3
Total RECURRQNT COSTS            2394.9   2767.8   2184.5   2446.4   2623.9   247.0   2463.7  17217.6
7otal PROJECT COSTS             22610.2  28796.7  26913.8  1565.1  11683.4   4568.4   4266.9 112678.1                                     1
Values Scaled by 16M.0 4/1/1991  14:16                                                                                                   VI
I" W
tw
0



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 7.   Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
asuse
Government 0f
World Bank         Ecuador           Total                   Local
For.    (Excl.   Duties
Amount    X      Amount    X      Amount    s        Exch.   toxes)   & Tax.
A. Vehicles                      22m9.6   90.0    252.3   10.0   2522.8    2.2   2522.8           0.0       0.0
S. Equipment                     2466.8   U.0    274.1   18.0   2740.8    2.4   1633.2   1707.6             6.o
C. Civil Works                  48723.6   90.0   5413.7   10.0  54137.3   48.0  23231.8  30965.6            6.5
D. Land                             0.0    6.0      48.4  160.6       46.4    0.6       6 6      46.4       6.6
E. Poet-Harvest Marketing        1606.3   90.0    177.8   10.6   1778.1    1.6    187.8   1690.3            6.0
F. Tralning                      2223.6 o s.o    247.1   1060   2470.7    2.2    608.4   1862.8             6.6
0. FODECO                        7248.9   90.0    805.2   10.0   8652.1    7.1   2321.4   5736.0            0.6
H. On-Frm Investment                6.0    6.6  19140.7  100.0  16146.7    9.6    960.3   9186.8            6.6
I. Other Investment Costs        4866.7   90.0    534.1   10.6   5340.8    4.7    548.3   4792.6           6.6
J. Operating A maintenance       4666.2   7t.6   1533.4   25.0   6133.6    5.4   1736.9   4396.6            6.9
X. Local Personnel                  0.6    6.6   8928.4  160.0   8928.4    7.9          e.9   8928.4        8.9
L. C_omnication                   408.9   90.0      46.4   1060    464.4    0.4         6.J    464.4        0.6
M. Othr Recurrent Costa             0.6    0.0    283.3  166.0    283.3    0.3         45.7    237.6        0J.
N. Consultants                   8941.7  166.6       6.6    6.0   8941.7    7.9   3141.9   S799.8           O.J
0. Studies                        762.1  166.6       0.0    0.6    762.1    0.6         9.6    702.1       *.0
Total Disbursemnt               83991.2   74.5  28681.9   265.  112673.1  100.0  36338.5  76334.6          0.0
Values Scaled by 106.0 4/1/1991  12:32
to
0F



ECUADOR
Rural Development
Table 8.   Financing Plen by Project Cemponent
onuss
Governomnt of
World Sbnk        Ecuador            Total                 Local
For.    (Exel.   Duties
Amount    X      Amount    X      Amount    S       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Ebpejo-Mire                  1112.6   89.0    137.4   11.0   12FV.0    1.1    497.2    7.7            9.6
B. Tabewndo                     2662.9   89.1    316.8   10.9   2868.7    2.6   1161.6   1762.2          6.6
C. Cangehue                     6478.7   89.4    647.0   10.6   6126.5    5.4   2495.6   8836.9          0.6
S. Almis (TTP) SBjo             2775.4   89.8    334.2   10.7   8109.7    2.8   1264.1   1846.6          0.6
E. AluIns (TIP) Norte            649.5   87.9      89.5   12.1    789.0    0.7    269.9    469.1         0.6
F. Sante Isbe l                 2006.8   89.1    244.4   16.9   2261.2    2.6   967.8   1843.9           0.0
0. La Herradur                  6048.9   88.6    831.6   11.6   7286.5    6.4   2671.6   4683.9          0.6
H. Pul-Jlgual                   4688.6   86.1    786.9   18.9   6670.6    6.6   2669.9   8666.6          0.6
I. Water Course                 1483.2  9s.0    164.8   10.0   1648.1    1.5    689.6    958.6           6.6
J. Applled Resarch              1137.6   74.3    32.?   25.7   1629.8    1.4    426.1   1104.6           6.6
K. Transfer of Technology       346e.4   54.0   2953.8   46.0   *417.2    6.7    776.1   647.2           0.0
L. Forestry Developmet          2442.8   90.6    271.4   10.6   2714.2    2.4    576.6   2148.6          6.6
M. On-fare InvestieAt              O.6    0.0  16140.7  100.0  10140.7    9.0    96.8   9186.3           6.6
H. Regional Processing           747.1   96.6      68.0   10.0    836.2    6.7       87.2    742.9       6.6
0. Imgrovements Of Markets       662.9   90.0      78.7   10.0    738.6    6.7       78.2    656.8       6.6
P. Pilot Enterprises             196.2   96.6      21.1   16.6    211.4    0.2       22.4    189.6       6.6 
R. Institution, Support          246.8   84.6    467.1   65.4    718.9    9.6    218.4    495.5          6.6
R. Post-Harvest Studios          297.6   86.7      16.1    8.3    867.1    0.8    127.1    196.0         6.6
S. Marketng & Procesing         4262.7   96.      467.0   16.6   4669.6    4.1   1341.0   8828.6         6.6
T. Product;w  Projects          844.2   90.0    a88.2   16.6   3882.4    8.0    979.6   2402.6           6.6
U. Rural Roads                 28861.1   69.2   282S.2   16.e  YA128.3   28.2  10962.6  15163.8          6.6
V. Water HarvestIng             2790.6   90.0    320.1   19.!  8f00.9    2.8   1271.1   1829.8           6.6
W. Land Tenure Regularizatn      698.6   28.4   'J"-dr    72.6   2462.4    2.2    471.6   1996.6         6.6
X. EnvironAmntal Component       438.8            4z. e.0   49.5    864.8    0.8     86.4    777.9       6.6
T. Trog. of Bneticlaries         467.6   PI.7    898.9   46.8    851.5    0.8    286.5   565.6           0.0
Z. Training of Staff             428.7   90.6      47.0   10.6    476.8    0.4    126.8    856.6        0.0
A. Irrigation Training           767.4   48.0    662.8   61.4   1569.8    1.4    298.0   1266.6          0.6
S. Coamunicbtlons                542.8   79.7    188.8   20.8    681.1    0.6    169.6    511.6          0.0
C. Coordination A kpt.          2860.2   44.6   2926.1   6S.5   6276.8    4.7   1968.4   8812.9         6.6
D. Monitoring A Evaluation       481.1   68.2    286.2   38.8    761.4    0.7    123.7    687.7          0.0
E. Technical Assistnce          7965.8  100.9       0.0    0.0   7966.8    7.1   8368.0   4929.0        0.6
Total Dlsursmet                8991.2   74.6  28681.9   2656 112678.1  166.6  86388.6  76834.6          0.0
Values Scaled by 16.6 4/1/1991  12:32
0



- 118 -
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 13
ECUADCR
Rural Dve lopuant
Table 9. Dloburae_nt by Financier by Semoster
em usll
Covernro
World     nt Of
Bank     Ecuador    Total
Amount    Amount    Amount
1       0.0       0.0       0.0
2    8778.8    2481.8   11255.1
8    8773.8    2481.8   112E5.1
4   110U4.0   8393.8   14897.8
6   11964.0    8898.8   14897.8
*    9759.8    8247.8   13666.7
7    9759.8    8247.8   183  8.7
8    6246.7    2256.8    7502.6
*    5246.7    2256.8    7592.6
10    4868.7    1408.1    5767.7
11    4B85.7    1408.1    5768.7
12    1491.1     788.1    2279.2
18    1491.1     788.1    2279.2
14    1862.6     766.6    2128.5
is    1362.5     766.0    2128.5
16       0.0       0.0       0.0
TOTAL       88991.2   28681.9  112678.1
Values Scaled by 1e66.6 4/1/1991 12:82



- 119 -
ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 13
ECUADOR
Rural Dovelopmnt
Table 10. Finanelng Plan by Foreign Exchange J Local / Taxes
we USS
Government
World Bank   Of Ecuador         Total
Amount       Amount       Amount
I  Foreign                       86024.1        1814.4      38388.6
'-  Local (Excl. Taxes)          48967.1       27887.6      76334.6
III Taxes                            0.0           O.0          g.0
Total Project                    63991.2       28681.9     112873.1
Values Scaled by 100.0 4/1/1991 12:32



- 120 -
Poge I of 7
SfCUADO
RURAL DEVELOPkENT PROJECT
Proiect Justification and Economic Analvyis
Pro1ect Coat.
1.        Project base costs have been oestimated at July 1990 prices and
converted into US dollara using the monthly average market exchange rate of
sucres 885/dollar. All prices uaed are net of taxes. It ha been asaumed
that future devaluations of the local currency would reflect inflation
differentials between the aucre and the US dollar during the course of
implementation. Therefore, the exchange rate remains unchanged for the length
of the project. Inflation figures for expenses In dollar. are expected to be
at levels indicated in Operational Directive 6.5 - Annex Bl, and price
contingencies have been estimated for all costs accordingly. Physical
contingencies have been estimated for civil works, vehicles and sowe items of
equipment. The total cost is estimated at approximately US$112.7 million for
a seven-year implementation period (as presented in Annex 7), with a foreign
exchange component of about 32.3Z.
Proiect Benefits
2.        The project would generate a wide variety of benefits in both rural
and urban areas, derived mainly from the combination of improvements in rural
infrastructure, including rural roads and marketing facilities, expansion of
irrigation, adoption of improved production technology, promotion of village-
level development activities and enhancement of environmental quality for
rural areas. Some of these benefits, particularly those related to social or
environmental impacts, cannot be readily quantified, though they are likely to
be considerable. The four benefits that have been estimated are: (a) increase
in agricultural production; (b) benefits from forestry; (c) benefits from
post-harvest processing and marketing of products; and (d) benefits from
community development investments.
3.        Value of Agricultural Output.  This accounts fcr more than 902 of
total quantified benefits. The incremental production would come from
expansion in cropping areas, new cropping patterns with the introduction of
higher-value crops, double-cropping and higher yields, due to improved
technology and the increased availability of irrigation water, as well as
flood protection and drainage. Based on representative farm models, estimates
of farm incomes in the p:roject areas indicate that most of project
beneficiaries live in poverty, i.e., with net farm incomes (after deduction of
inputs, labor and other recurrent costs) of less than 40S of the average GDP
per capita. These farm models (presented in Annex 5) suggest that net farm
incomes for farmers should increase significantly. According to these
estimates, all but the smallest farms (2-4 ha in the rainfed areas) would be



- 121 -
ANNEX 8
Paga 2 of 7
able to increase their annual not incomes above the poverty line, and some of
the largest farms in the irrigated areas would be able to reach a level of
income comparable to the national average per capita GDP. Aggregate not farm
incomes for all direct project beneficiaries show an increase of about 147Z
above the level without the project.
4.        Benefits from Forestry.  Some of the main objectives of the new
forests are to contribute to a better conservation of natural resources, serve
as wind barriers and increase availability of firewood. However, there would
also be income coming from the sale of cuttings during the growing period, as
well as from timber from the mature trees at the end of the period. Since
this is a long-term investment, the estimated cash flow shows a peak of US$3.8
million in year 21 and the cycle from some native trees is close to 40 years.
The net income estimated for this component in the benefit stream is very
conservative.
5.        Benefits from Post-Harvest ProcessinR and Marketing.  These
benefits have been estimated based on illustrative models for the operation of
the storage plants, processing and marketing centers and local fairs to be
financed for the project. These facilities would provide a gain to the
producers derived from getting a larger share of the wholesale-retail price
difference. As a conservative estimate, this gain from intermediation is
based only on the incremental production generated by the project. Moreover,
other likely benefits (decrease in overall losses and wastage, increase in
quality of products and higher prices) have not been included.
6.        Benefits from the Community Development Component.  Based also on
illustrative models for the different types of projects to be financed by this
component, an aggregate stream of net benefits has been estimated. Even
though most of these projects would be replicating already successful
enterprises, a very conservative success rate of only 502 has been assumed in
these calculations.
7,        Other Important Benefits Not Calculated.  Some of the important
benefits of the project could not be quantified and therefore have not been
included in the stream of benefits for the calculation of the ERR. The most
important of these is the benefit irom the construction of the rural roads.
The benefits from increased agricultural production, post-harvest processing
and marketing capture only some of the benefits of this investment.. The total
benefit from improved communications and reduced costs of transportation of
inputs, outputs, and people, particularly outside the project areas, has not
been estimated.  Similarly, some of the other important benefits         included
in the benefit stream for the economic analysis include:
(a) reduction in losses in output and on-farm investments
derived from a reduced risk of flooding;
(b) socioeconomic benefits from the water reservoirs that
would serve more than 20,000 people, up to 200,000 head
of cattle, and provide irrigation for about 500 ha of
crops; and
(c)  indirect effects of promoting and strengthening private
organizations for rural development (farmers'
organizations and NGOs).



- 122 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
Economic Analysis
8.        Economic Prices.  The exchange rate of Sucres 885/dollar has been
assumed to reflect the real effective equilibrium rate following the
macroeconomic adjustment program and local currency devaluations undertaken by
the GOE since late 1988. Since some of the project areas suffer from seasonal
unemployment, the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been estimated at
46Z of the market rate, Skilled labor has not been adjusted for the economic
analysis. In terms of agricultural outputs, economic prices have been
estimated for all major traded products using appropriate border pricing
techniques to reflect different levels of government intervention. The
correction factors applied to market financial prices range from 0.70 to 1.0.
9.        BenefitlCost Stream.  The cost stream used for the economic
analysis of the project includes all investment and recurrent costs (as
presented in Annex 7) for all components. After completion of the investment
period (year 7) a constant recurrent cost is assumad (equal to the level of
the seventh year) for maintaining project implementation. On the other side,
the benefit stream includes only: (a) incremental net value of agricultural
output; (b) value of tradable forest products; (c) benefits from post-harvest
processing and marketing; and (d) estimated net benefits derived from the
community development activities. In year 15, the benefit stream includes the
estimated value of future benefits and residual value of investments. The
benefit and cost streams are presented in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex.
Rate of Return and Sensitivity
10.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated to
be 15.1Z. Switching tests indicate that expected benefits would have to
decline 161 or costs increase 20Z before the ERR would fall to 12S, the
assumed opportunity cost of capital (OCC). Furthermore, the ERR fell to 12.52
when we assumed that the benefits would be delayed by a year, and to 12.41
when the benefits after the year 15 were ignored. The project has an
estimated net present value of US16.3 million at the assumed OCC (Annex 8,
Table 3). Most of this would benefit people from the rural areas with incomes
much lower than the median income of the country.



RCAD0R
RMUAL DEVMEIT PROET
Table 1.  Benefit from Increased Production ('000 US $)
0      1       2       3      4       5       6      7       0       9     10      11      12+
1. 3sti ted Production   25,034.5 25.328.6 27,144.2 31,073.4 36.462.2 41,965.1 46,623.4 50,345.5 53,234.2 54,930.2 55,741.9 55.781.3 55,854.6
2. Raw Material Cost   4,664.3 4,742.5 5,569.0 7,190.1 8,911.3 9,998.1 10,365.0 10,432.5 10,451.0 10,485.0 10,495.7 10,493.6 10,478.6
3. Labor Cost           2,161.2 2,212.2 2,515.3 3,078.0 3,669.3 4,106.9 4,277.6 4,365.0 4,400.7 4,433.2 4,451.0 4,451.1 4,449.7
4. Total Cost           6,825.5 6,954.7 8,084.4 10,268.1 12,580.6 14,105.0 14,642.6 14,797.5 14,851.7 14,918.1 14,946.8 14,944.7 14,928.3   'w
5. Not Ptoduction      18,209.1 18,374.0 19,059.9 20,805.4 23,881.6 27,860.1 31,980.9 35,547.9 38,382.5 40,012.1 40,795.1 40,836.6 40,926.3
6. Increwsntal Net Poduction     164.9  850.8 2,596.3 5,672.6 9,651.0 13,771.8 17,338.9 20,173.4 21,803.0 22,586.1 22,627.5 22,717.2
0



ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Base Costs A Benefits (I0'm US 3)
1        2         3         4        6         6         7        8         9       10
A. BENEFITS
Agricultursl Productn(BP)    164.9    860.8   2698.3   6872.8   9651.0  13771.8  17333.9  20173.4  21853.0  22588.1
Forostry            (OF)        -         -       6.6       4.7      7.2       6.2    120.4    132.2    187.9    289.3
Post-Harvest Maaketag(BC)       -         -    143.3    429.4    624.3    776.6    777.6    778.6    779.7    779.7
Comunity Dov.lo_nt(BD)          -         -    416.0    627.1    868.6    973.9    973.9    976.8    976.8    975.8
Total EbnefIts(Baso Case)    16e.9    869.8   3161.2   6733.8  11161.1  15627.4  19210.7  22050.0  23748.4  24610.9
B. COSTS
Investment Costs    (CI)  19626.3  24468.3  22419.4  11757.2   8328.6   1998.6   1714.1             -        -         -
Recurrent Costs     (CR)   2204.7   2613.6   2122.2   2427.0   2493.4   2433.6   2396.7   2396.7   2396.7   2396.7
______   ________   ________   ________   _______   _ _ -_         _-  -
Total Cost                 21231.0  27081.8  24641.6  14184.2  10822.0   4432.1   4110.8   2396.7   2396.7   2398.7
C. NET BENEFITS
Not Bnef Its  (Base Case) -21066.1 -26231.0 -21380.4  -7460.4    329.1  11096.3  16099.9  19663.3  21349.7  22214.2
4/1/1991  12:22
ox
0



Table 2 (Continued)
ECUADOR
RURAL D:VELOPMENT PROJECT
Saso Costs & Benefits (l'O0 US S)
11        12        13        14         16
A. BENEFITS
Agricultural Productn(BP)   22827.6  22717.2  22717.2  22717.2  90868.8
Forostry             (OF)     343.8    180.1    169.9    431.7    6728.1
Post-Harvost Marketag(BC)     779.7      779.7     779.7     779.7    3118.7
Comunity Do.vlopwent(BD)      975.8      976.8    976.8      976.8    3903.3
Total Bendit (Bas. Case)   24726.8  24862.8  24832.6  24904.4  104618.9
B.. COSTS
Investment Costs     (CI)         -          -         -         -         -
Recurrent Costs      (CR)    2396.7    2396.7   2396.7   2396.7    2396.7
Total Cost"                  2396.7   2396.7   2396.7   2396.7    2396.7
C. NET BENEFITS
Not Bnefits  (Boso Case)   22330.1  22258.1  22236.9  22607.7  12222.2
4/1/1991  12:22
b Z
oQ I
0 t
0
0k 
o a3



- 126 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
Table 3.   Switching Valuos at  12.0%
Appraisal     Switching      Percentage
Stream             Value          Value         Change
BP                88649.2        72382.1         -18.4X
OF                 1778.0       -14491.2        -916.0X
SC                 8653.2       -12613.9        -445.3X
OD                 4848.3       -11418.8        -336.5%
Ci                66437.1        827?4.3          24.5%
CR                16222.4        82489.5         100.3%
Total Benefits    98926.7        82659.5         -16.4%
Total Costs       82659.5        98928.7          19.7%
Not Prosent Valuo at OCC   12.0% = 16267.1
Internal Rate of Return a 15.1X
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return u 16.1X



- 1.27 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1  Los Cimientos de una Nueva Sociedad; MBS/IICA, Quito, April 1989
B.    Selected Regorts and Studies Related to the Proiect
B..   Ecuador - Programa Nacional do Desarrollo Rural: Informs de
Preparaci6o; FAO/CP, Rome, April 1990
(2 Volumes)
B.2   Feasibility Studies for Pro1ect Components; MBS/IICA, Quito,
October 1990:
- Generaci6n y Validaci6n de Teenologia
- Transferencia de Teonologia
- Desarrollo Forestal
- Cr6dito Rural
- Riego, Drenaje y Control de Inundaciones
- Infraestructura Vial
- Comercializaci6n
- Capacitaci6n y Gesti6n Campesina
- Tenencia y Legalizaci6n de Tierras
- Dosarrollo Institucional
- Evaluaci6n Econ6mico-Financiera
B.3   Estudio de Evaluaci6n do Impacto Ambiental; MBS/IICA, Quito,
October 1990
(2 Volumes)
B.4   Estudio de Factibilidad del Proarama Nacional de Desarrollo
Rural - Resumen del Provecto; MBS/IICA, Quito, May 1991
(2 Volumes)
C.    Selected Appraisal Workina Papers
C.1   Irrigation and Flood Control Component
C.2   Validation of Technology Component
C.3   Transfer of Technology
C.4   Forestry Component
C.5   Post-Harvest Processing and Marketing Component
C.6   Community Development Component
C.7   Rural Roads Component
C.8   Water Harvesting Component
C.9   Training and Communications Component
C.10  Selected Farm Models
C.11 Detailed Project Cost Tables by Components



- 128 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
D.    Post-Appraisal Documents Prepared by the Borrower for Implementation
D.1   Rezlamento del Fondo de Desarrollo Comunitario (FODECO);
Ministerial Agreement No. 1053, Quito, May 30, 1991
D.2   Plan de Acci6n Rara la Implementacifn del FODECO; MBS/IICA, Quito,
May 1991
D.3   Plan de Acci6,a Para el Establecimiento de 10 Unitades PIP en las
12 Areas del PROP7ADER; MBS/IICA, Quito, May 1991
D.4   Plan de Acci6n de la Divisi6n de Extensi6n Agropecuaria y
Transferencia de Tecnologia (DEATT); MBS/IICA, Quito, May 1991
D.5   Manual de Administraci6n Financiera para Control de Pr6stamos del
BIRF; MBS, Quito, May 1991
D.6   Manual de Procedimientos Para la Adtuisici6n de Bienes y
Contrataci6n de Servicios; MBS, Quito, May 1991
D.7   Indicadores del Sistema de Monitoria y Evaluaci6n del PRONADER;
MBS/IICA, Quito, May 1991



IBRD  22587R
81'                                   79'       )<                            77'
0
, sm eraldas                            0u  n
/ /     f/( I' TuIcan CV    B
OC[fAN                           t4
- V       t            fz      P!~~~~~~~~~~o. n it                 Pto..I9I  
Caraquez O  XSqil <  %:
Ma,ta               Q ue ve d o    r a zM$Rocatua e ae
0\                 <9   h)~~~~~~~~~~~~Ta                                    R/( 5a7 nM o        /V48'o 
11              Vinces      G uaran a        n    er Puo
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
Guayauil qul )                                     Guie    RURA  DEEOMN  PROJECT
ProjectAres   REG ION II
C - A~ ~ Loj                                                                          COT HUMe FDAf~  //
4'Plafas de Hi/Foguerod
posoria,    / /  g  Cuenca~~~g,<                         r 11 n
0 f - S JJ\ ~~~~~~~oig -L rpa 27ezCUADOR 
Budyah uia de                    el),,, Los$ SLosierraz    te        Pihnh D V       OM       T   POstCs
,aquici'i T a    a    cP      c      (TTP)         P
M a n ta  Queyedo      L aREGIN  IIREGIN uIVy
{    2    \1     {Yantzaza/g           HIGH~LOPE JS                         DRYI COAST
V,  s        uz Loja  ra n dPSlRRACO                                  COSTA   SECA
o ~ ~ ~ ~ Zmr |0 ¢0  Esej1Mr50Plysd  Hge
u  antaIae
2~~~~~~ 02 2!)                                                                                                 -   
aIinasMa                    Ma   Ra S S                      DRi
I,I JOE  5 t,'iC  MISICIT ,t COSA S,,.eahs,o   hr 'M   ja      ICA
M~~~~~~~~~~ ILSOrnd00             ez Faud  Vl                                   P a
I,,t0  t'aoOTOdnm,Iog c  Maint Rt   oandansso    n ,sRieorsd
00 -1,16., ,,,,,.,,,.,. 0! FAt l0,o.I# ,d ,c ,,d rh, ,-oons.a f ,.;.S Co~,j,   7 ..  Cities and Towns -   - - International Boundaries
MARCH 1991



