Page  1
March 15, 2000
Sr. Jorge Guzmán Ortega 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington 
Quito, Ecuador
Re: 
Loan No. 3390-EC (Rural Development Project) Fifth Amendment to 
the Loan 
Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Republic of Ecuador (the 
Borrower), dated August 8, 1991 (the Loan Agreement), as amended.  Pursuant to your 
letter of request dated February 14, 2000 we are pleased to inform you that the Bank 
hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
In Section 1.02 a new definition is hereby added as paragraph (vv) immediately 
after Section 1.02 (uu) to read as follows:
(uu)
“El Niño Emergency Coordination Unit” (COPEFEN) means Unidad 
Coordinadora del 
Plan de Emergencia para Afrontar el Fenómeno del Niño, an 
emergency coordination unit within 
the Ministry of the Presidency of the Borrower 
pursuant to Decree No. 740 to deal with the “
El Niño Phenomenon”
2.
Section 3.22 (a) is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to read as 
follows:
“(a) (i)With regard to Part M of the Project, SSDR shall, pursuant to the 
CECCA-CREA-MP Agreement: (A) coordinate with CECCA, CREA and MP 
the execution of all 
activities to be carried out under such Part of the 
Project in accordance with an action 
plan approved by the Bank; and (B) hire 
consultants to supervise execution of civil works.  
(ii) With regard to Part N of the 
Project, activities contained under such Part shall be 
executed in its 
entirety by COPEFEN.” 
3.
Section 3.22 (b) is hereby amended by deleting the word “N” after the word 
“and”, in the second line.
4.
Section 3.22 (c) is hereby amended by adding a paragraph (c) to read as follows:
“(c) COPEFEN shall: (i) at all times cause: (A) the roads, bridges canals 
and other 
civil works constructed or rehabilitated under Part N of the Project to 
be maintained and 
all necessary repairs thereof be made; and (B) road maintenance 
equipment to be maintained 
and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be 
made, in accordance with appropriate 
technical and engineering practices; and (ii) 
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for the above purposes.”
5.
A new Section 2.02 (c) is hereby added to read as follows in its entirety:
“(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part N of the Project, open 
and maintain  in dollars a special deposit account in Banco Central de Ecuador (Special 
Account B).  This 
account shall be operated exclusively by COPEFEN on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the special 
account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.” 
6.
The existing Schedule 6 to this Loan Agreement is hereby renumbered as Schedule 
7. 
7.
A new Schedule 6 to this Loan Agreement is hereby added to read in its entirety 
as per the Annex to this letter.
Page  2
8.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date with regard to: (a) Parts A through M to 
the 
Agreement shall be June 30, 2000;  and (b) with regard to Part N  to the 
Agreement shall be 
December 31, 2000 or such later date the Bank shall establish.  
The Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.” 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Director 
Country Management Unit - Ecuador 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Jaime Carrera
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 24, 2000
ANNEX 1
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account B
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “Eligible Category” means Category (10) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part N of the Project; 
(b)
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part N of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account B 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account B shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account B shall be made as follows: 
Page  3
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account B of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account B such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account B, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account B 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
B such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account B for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account B, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account B: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(c) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account B; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Category of the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account B as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account B: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account B (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
Page  4
the Special Account B shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account B will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account B. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
