Page  1
                                                   July  30,  1993
Mr.
Cesar Robalino
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
            Re:   Loan No. 3390-EC (Rural Development Project)
                Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Ecuador (the Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), dated August 8, 1991 (the Loan Agreement).
     We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of your request
and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend
the Loan Agreement as follows so as to expand the Santa Isabel
Project Area to include certain activities to be carried out under
the Project and to reallocate part of the proceeds of the Loan.
Article I
1.    Section 1.02 (gg) is hereby amended by replacing the word
      "and" by a comma, immediately before the words "the parish of
      Pucara", and by inserting the words ", the Gualaceo canton of
      Azuay province and the parishes of Bulan, Chican, El Cabo and
      San Cristobal in the Paute canton of Azuay province"
      immediately after the words "in the Pucara canton of Azuay
      Province".
2.    Section 1.02 (mm) is hereby amended by deleting the word "and"
      at the end thereof.
3.    Section 1.02 (nn) is hereby amended by replacing the period at
      the end thereof with a semi-colon.
4.    A new Section 1.02 (oo)) is hereby added immediately after
      Section 1.02 (nn) to read as follows in its entirety: "'CECCA'
      means Centro de Capacitacion del Campesino del Azuay, a
      private training center in Azuay province;
5.    A new Section 1.02 (pp) is hereby added immediately after
      Section 1.02 (oo) to read as follows in its entirety:
      "'CECCA-CREA-MP Agreement' means the agreement between MBS and
      CECCA, CREA (as hereinafter defined) and MP (as hereinafter
      defined) for the purposes of carrying out Part M of the
      Project, referred to in Sections 3.20, 3.21 and 3.22 of this
      Agreement; ".
6.    A new Section 1.02 (qq) is hereby added immediately after
      Section 1.02 (pp) to read as follows in its entirety: "'CREA'
      means Centro de Reconversion Economica del Azuay, Canar y
      Morona Santiago, the Borrower's economic reconversion center
      for the Azuay, Canar and Morona Santiago provinces; and".
7.    A new Section 1.02 (rr) is hereby added immediately after
      Section 1.02 (qq) to read as follows in its entirety: "'MP'
      means the Municipality of Paute.
Page  2
Article     III
1.    Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words "and
      L" by the words ", L and M" immediately before the words "of
      the Project through the SSDR of MBS".
2.    Section 3.20 is hereby amended by replacing the words "and BNF
      Agreements" by the words ", BNF and CECCA-CREA-MP Agreements"
      immediately before the words "and, except as the Bank shall
      otherwise agree".
3.    Section 3.21 is hereby amended by replacing the words "and BNF
      Agreements" by the words ", BNF and CECCA-CREA-MP Agreements"
      immediately before the words "shall contain provisions", and
      by replacing the words "and BNF" by the words ", BNF, CECCA,
      CREA and MP" immediately before the words ", respectively,
      shall"
4.    A new Section 3.22 is hereby added immediately after Section
      3.21, to read as follows in its entirety:
                        Schedule 1
      1.    The table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement is amended by replacing Category (8) by the following
Categories:
                                    Amount of the       % of
                                    Loan Allocated      Expenditures
                                    (Expressed in       to be
      Category                      Dollar Equivalent)  Financed
(8)   Civil works under                 1,170,000        100%
      Part M of the
      Project
(9)   Incremental operation               30,000         100%
      and maintenance costs
(10)  Unallocated                       7,300,000
2.    Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended by
      deleting the word "and" immediately before the word "(i)", and
      by replacing the period at the very end thereof by a semi-
      colon and by adding the following words immediately
      thereafter: "and (j) funds to cover expenditures incurred
      under Category (8) of the table set forth in Paragraph 1
      hereof, unless the CECCA-CREA-MP Agreement, satisfactory to
      the Bank, shall have been entered into".
Schedule 2
      Schedule 2 to the Loan.  Agreement is amended by adding the
      following Part immediately after Part L:
            "Part M:    Paute Disaster Area Rehabilitation
            Rehabilitation activities in the Gualaceo canton and the
            parishes of Bulan, Chican, El Cabo and San Cristobal of
            the Paute canton, in the Santa Isabel Project Area,
            consisting of:
Page  3
            (a) construction or rehabilitation of approximately six
            kilometers of rural roads;
            (b) reconstruction of three hanging bridges;
            (c) rehabilitation of two irrigation canals;
            (d) recovery of agricultural land; and
            (e) assistance to handcraft activities of small
            farmers."
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return
one fully executed original to us.
     The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
as of the date the Bank notifies the Borrower in writing that the
Bank has received one fully executed original of this amendment
letter.
     Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment
letter is being sent to the Minister of Social Welfare.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       /s/  Ping-Cheung Loh
                             Director
                       Country Department IV
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR,
     /s/ Cesar Robalino
By:
    Authorized Representative
Econ. Cesar Robalino Gonzaga
      MINISTER OF FINANCE
Date: 23 AG0 1993
cc:  Minister of Social Welfare.\1a
