D_cument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. /g /C - S'u
1P4t N..P-4183-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II
November 12, 1985
Ink doesmmt hb  a ruWdi dui            m d =my be .ed by redpisfu  Wy in he wuifuan  of
dwk oUdl juli  Ius  eumim  my mmt osihwie be discied widunt Wod  Buk suhm in



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit   =  Sudanese Pound (LSd)
US$1.00         -  LSd 2.5 (official rate)
US$1.00         =  LSD 3.3 (free commercial bank rate)
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric Unit        English Unit               Sudanese Unit
1 hectare (ha)     2.47 acres (ac)         =  2.38 feddans (fd)
Metric Unit        English Unit               U.S. Unit
1 liter         =  0.22 imperial gallons  =  0.26 U.S gallons
1 metric ton       2,202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEDs     -  Agricultural Extension Department - South Darfur
IDA      -  International Development Association
IFAD     -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LMMC     -  Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
MOANR    -  Ministry of Agricultuare and National Resources, Darfur
ODA      -  Overseas Development Administration of the U.K.
RG       -  Regional Government, Darfur
RPA      -  Range and Pasture Administration, South Darfur
VSA      -  Veterinary Services Administration, South Darfur
WSARP    -  Western Savannah Agricultural Research Project
WSDC     -  Western Savannah Development Corporation
WSARS    -  Western Savannah Agricultural Research Stations
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
The Islamic Calendar Year



- i -               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II (WSP-II)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Sudan
Amount:           IDA Credit SDR 10.2 million (US$10.6 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Cofinancing:      IFAD Loan SDR 9.45 million (US$9.9 million equivalent)
ODA Grant Pounds Sterling 7.7 million (US$10.7 million
equivalent)
Beneficiaries:   Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) and
Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
Project Description:
The main objectives of the project are to: (a) increase small farmer incomes
through higher production of grain and pulses by making available farm inputs
and water supplies; (b) extend new technology either identified under WSP-I or
to be developed under WSP-II; Cc) increase output from livestock by creating
an effective veterinary service; (d) conserve range and develop pasture;
(e) adapt farming systems to arrest the ongoing degradation of soil and range;
and (f) introduce land tenure.
Benefits:
The main benefits would be: (a) increases in the production of millet,
sorghum and groundnuts; (b) prevention of further soil deterioration in
project-controlled or influenced areas; (c) improvement of livestock disease
security and productivity; (d) increase in human water availability and
reliability; and (e) establishment of beneficiary control and payment for
agricultural services in the project area.
Risks:
Sudan's tenuous overall economic situation may give rise to shortages of
inputs and weak support from GOS cooperating agencies. The capacity and
degree of cooperation, which WSP-I has stimulated in regional and local
authorities, could prove transient. The main technical risk is using untried
range seeding technology, but that component is not critical for project
success. The project includes measures to minimize these risks, a strong
institutions training component, imporced inputs and privatization of
services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disliosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Components:                             US $ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
Agricultural Development         2.8             7.5           10.3
Engineering Services             2.4             7.3            9.7
Project Administration           2.3             4.3            6.6
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.1             0.7            0.8
WSARP Station Operations         1.6             2.6            4.2
Physical Contingencies           0.9             1.6            2.5
Price Contingencies              4.7             5.0            9.7
14.8 1/        29.0            43.8 1/
_                              _=
Financing Plan:                                  US $ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
IDA Credit                       1.1             9.5           10.6
IFAD Loan                        1.1            8.8             9.9
ODA Grant                       -               10.7           10.7
Government of Sudan             12.6 1/        _               12.6 1I
14.8           29.0            43.8
~==
Estimated Disbursements:                      US $ Million
FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91
IDAJIFAD:  Annual         0.7     5.0     4.4      4.2     3.5     2.7
Cumulative    0.7     5.7    10.1    14.3    17.8    20.5
Estimated Rate of Return on the project investment is 35 percent.
Map: IBRD 18991
1/  Includes duties and taxes equivalent to US$1.1 million and inputs for
which a cost of US$4.5 million will eventually be recovered.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPNENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PEASE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) for SDR 10.2
million (US$10.6 million equivalent) to help finance a Western Savannah
Project - Phase II. The credit will be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
(Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A more recent
economic mission visited Sudan in May 1984 and its report, (-Prospects for
the Rehabilitation of the Sudanese Economy") No. 5496-SU of October 7, 1985
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$400. Much of the country is unoccupied
or very sparsely populated. Although about one-third of the country is
desert or semi-desert, Sudan has considerable untapped potential for
agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic.  The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
*         A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is planned, but construction has
been interrupted by the unsettled security situation in the southern part
of the country. The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese
economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supplies, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises have
been returned to the private sector in recent years, about half of the CDP
is still generated within the public sector.



- 2 -
4.        Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on the current account
of the balance of payments increased from US$11 million equivalent to about
US$470 million and remained between US$450 and US$550 million until
1979/80, when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious
decline in cotton production pushed the deficit to US$809 million in
1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves fell to
only a few days worth of impor-ts. By end 1982, external payments arrears
had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis came about largely as the consequence of inadequate
economic management policies compounded by external factors, such as the
sharply increased cost of petroleum imports, which constrained the
Government's ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action.
Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse
forces - reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The structural weakness in Sudan"s public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980181 still averaged nearly 25
percent per year; during 1980181, the rate of expansion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981182, rose again in 1982/83
by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent in 1982,
1983 and 1984.
7.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, starting in 1978 the Government undertook significant
policy changes to establish financial equilibrium, to restore export growth
through appropriate policies and public investments, to improve the
performance of the public corporations, and to install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs.
8.       An essential aspect of the Government's recovery program since
1979 was a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through
increased exports. This was carried out under the Export Action Program
(EAP), initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of
cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of cotton had in fact declined
further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 51 percent increase
in production. This trend was continued in 1982/83 with a further 23
percent increase, and in 1983/84 and 1984/85 10 percent and 3 percenc
increases were realized. Several investments in the irrigated subsector
are supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund



- 3-
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects are now
being carried out. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1022-SU,
approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects for the
Blue and WUhite Nile schemes. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, became effective in May 1985.  The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provided much
needed foreign exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the
*        sub-sector in 1984. In addition, important policy measures were taken in
the areas of cost recovery, cotton pricing and marketing, and institutional
reform. Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic financial
resources.
Financial Stabilization and IIMF Agreements.
9.      In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IHF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agricultural sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
10.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81.  Subsequently, further measures, together with pledges at a
special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that closed the financing gap in the
program, made it possible in the following month for the IMF to approve a
one-year Stand-by Arrangement for Sudan. However, this program also lapsed
in mid-term because of the Government's inability to comply with all of its
conditions.
11.       Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a
44 percent devaluation of the Sudanese Pound. The Government also prepared
a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects, Programmes and
Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984785 (PPPED); this document
formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris
in January 1983. The outcome of this meeting, together with a new debt
restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club in February 1983 enabled
the IMF to approve a Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR
170 million, which Sudan completed satisfactorily on February 22, 1984.
12.       At a subsequent Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on
December 14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program, and donor assistance in the form of commodity and project
aid was indicated as likely to be forthcoming at a level which would be



almost adequate to support it. Subsequently additional commodity aid was
promised at a level which the IMF considered to be adequate to close the
financing gap for 1984.
13.       In May 1984, following the December 1983 Consultative Group
Meeting, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule Sudan's official external
debts falling due in 1984 on terms which were consistent with the proposed
IMF Standby Arrangement for 1984, and the new Standby Arrangement was
entered into on June 25, 1984. The first tranche was drawn down soon
thereafter. However, Sudan was not able to discharge repayments to the IMF
which fell due in July 1984, and exchange rate adjustments scheduled for
July were not made. Therefore, the IMF Standby Arrangement lapsed shortly
after it had gone into effect, and no further IMF drawings were made
available during 1984.
14.       As a result of the uncertainties regarding the IMF Standby, donor
commodity aid in 1984 lagged well behind the levels anticipated at the
December 1983 Consultative Group Meeting (estimated actual of about $270
million compared to an anticipated $470 million).  Also, while export
receipts from irrigated agriculture (i.e. cotton) met expectations in 1984,
drought in the rainfed areas reduced the export of sorghum, groundnuts, and
gum Arabic. With foreign exchange receipts lagging behind expectations due
to the lag in donor aid, IMF drawings, and reduced exports of rainfed
crops, the Government fell behind in its debt service obligations to the
DMF, the Paris Club, and to other bilateral creditors. By the end of
December 1984, Sudan was about $260 million in arrears on its official long
term debt obligations.
Other Developments
15.       In 1983 the Southern Region, which had previously had a semi-
autonomous status, was divided into three separate regions. Armed
resistance forces emerged in the south, and attacks on the Chevron oil
exploration activities and construction work on the Jonglei Canal caused
these operations to shut down. More recently, Chevron has partially
resumed its operations in Sudan but on a very limited basis.
16.       In August 1983, three measures were enacted into law based on the
Koran, called Sharia la-ws. These included changes in the penal code,
banning of the sale of alcohol, and a prohibition on the collection of
interest in courts of law. The civil code was extensively revised in March
1984. Early in 1984 direct taxes and some excise taxes were abolished and
replaced with a traditional Islamic tax and welfare system called -Zakat-
to be administered by a separate Zakat organization and levied at the local
level for use in part for social welfare purposes.
17.       Starting in September 1984, the Government took steps to reduce
the adverse budgetary effects of the Sharia changes. Most of the direct
taxes which were abolished were restored, sugar retail prices were
increased (from 26 to 30 piasters/lb.), and electric power tariffs were
increased 21 percent in November 1984 and 23 percent in March 1985. Also,
the exchange rate applicable to most exports and to commercial bank and



- 5 -
commodity aid imports was increased in February 1985 to LS 2.5/US$ (from
1.42 for exports and 1.8 for imports in October 1984) in order to provide
an adequate incentive to exports and to restrain demand for imports. In
November, the Government requested that the IMF send a technical assistance
mission to Sudan to assist in working out a comprehensive adjustment
program which the IMF would find acceptable. A Fund mission went tc,
Khartoum for this purpose in December and January, and a followr-up mission
in March of this year was able to confirm that the Government had
substantially implemented the recommendations of the December and January
missions, including price increases for petroleum products, bread and wheat
flour, soap, edible oil, pharmaceuticals and electric power tariffs.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
18.       Demonstrations and strikes in the public services began on Marcb
30 in response to the price increases which were put into effect in March.
The demonstrations gained force as the demonstrators broadened their
complaints to include the rough treatment used by the security forces,
mismanagement of the economy, corruption, and the severe punishments
imposed under the Sharia laws. Support for the demonstrations came from
the professional syndicates, the labor unions, and the political parties.
The Government rescinded the price increases for bread, soap and edible oil
but this did little to appease the demonstrators. On April 6, 1985 a group
of senior military officers led by the Minister of Defence took over the
Government. Decrees were issued, after consultation with the demonstrating
groups, calling for the unification of the country, a guarantee of human
rights and basic freedoms, the creation of a constitution established
through a democratic process, and return to civilian rule after a limited
transition period. All existing Ministers of Government and Regional
Governors were dismissed, Parliament and the Government-supported political
party SSU were dissolved, and a Transitional Military Council consisting of
15 senior military officers was established to act as a legislative and
policy making body for the country. The Council in turn appointed a
cabinet consisting mainly of civilians to administer the Government during
the transition period.
19.       The new Government is in effective control and enjoys a
reasonable degree of stability and public acceptance. Its statements and
actions, including servicing outstanding Bank loans and IDA credits, show
that it recognizes the past obligations undertaken to the World Bank Group
and, in general, the country's international obligations. It has so far
acted with caution and restraint regarding economic policies. The Minister
of Finance and the President of the Bank of Sudan visited Washington in May
1985, and they expressed their appreciation and hopes for the continuation
of donor support which has been assisting in drought relief and support for
the economy. While there is still no resolution of the difficult arrears
situation, non-project aid flows increased substantially since the change
of Government and the shortage of petroleum, which -aas hampering transport
activities, has at least temporarily been relieved.  An IMF mission visited
Sudan in June-July 1985, and another mission returned to Sudan in October
with the objective of reaching agreement on a package of appropriate
macro-economic measures. These discussions are still under way.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$1,077 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans, (two on Third Window terms) and 39 credits for a
total of 41 projects. Twenty two projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; two livestock marketing projects; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
t.redits, an agricultural credit project; a sugar rehabilitation project;
and a drought recovery program. Projects in other sectors include: four
power projects, three education projects, three highway projects, a
domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port projects, two
technical assistance projects, two industrial credit projects,and a
petroleum development project. Over the past two years, IFC has been
assisting the Government and White Nile Petroleum Company in preparing and
mobilizing funds for a major export pipeline project as part of the
development of the Unity and Heglig oil fields. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1985.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. There have also been lengthy delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal
documentation, concluding required co-financing arrangements, and in
providing timely audited accounts. These problems have been brought to the
attention of Government authorities, both through supervision missions and
Country Implementation Reviews, and steps have been taken to resolve some
of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
22.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but the rate
improved markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83.  The
FY84 disbursement rate declined to 10.0 percent as a result of delays in
implementation of several large projects. The FY85 disbursement rate for
Sudan is 23.3 as compared .o 22.9 percent for Eastern Africa Region and
24 percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF iD the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis



- 7 -
for Consultative Group meetings in January and December, 1983 and Standby
Arrangements with the IIMF. This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing updated versions of the recovery program. The key
elements of the strategy are:
-    Improved Balance of Payments:  support for development projects
and policy actions which help the country to generate or save
foreign exchange, with investment priority given to
rehabilitation of existing capital investments.
-    Key Infrastructure:  support for infrastructure projects which
relieve the most critical bottlenecks inhibiting productive
output (power, transport).
-    Resource Mobilization:  encouragement to Government to increase
the level of domestic resource mobilization as the basis for
sustained increases in output.
-    Longer-Term Development:  assistance to Government to prepare the
way for longer term development activities through improving
research and extension, and studies of irrigated water use
priorities and rainfed agricultural potential.
24.       On the whole, the Bank's assistance strategy has been effective
in encouraging the Government to undertake measures which have restored
cotton production to the levels achieved in the early 1970s. During the
past three years, exports have expanded and the foreign exchange gap has
been reduced, the Public Investment Program has been appropriate, and some
internal production (i.e. sugar and cement) has expanded. No progress was
made, however, in increasing the proportionate level of resource
mobilization, and parastatal financial losses remain at a high level.
During 1984, in part because of the uncertainties caused by the Sharia law
changes and the insurgency in the south, the recovery program seemed to be
coming off the track. The actions taken in February and March to put the
pregram back on a sound basis caused a political reaction as described in
para. 17, but nevertheless most of these measures remain in place.
25.       The Western Savannah Project is consistent with the Bank's
strategy for Sudan, both in expanding production of rainfed crops and
livestock for export, and by providing improved technology packages and
implementation techniques for longer term development of the rainfed
areas. Much work has been done on irrigation development in Sudan, but
future output expansion must rely more heavily on increasing productivity
and output from rainfed agriculture as Sudan's irrigation potential reaches
its physical limits. The accomplishments under the Western Savannah
Project- Phase I are encouraging evidence that progress can be made in this
area.



-8-
Experience with Past Lending
26.       At the sector level, IDA has continued to emphasize the
rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's major export earners, plus
improvements in infrastructure needed to service the agriculture sector.
These investments and the improvements in producer incentives and
institutional reforms with which they were associated, have reversed the
decline, and during the last three years yields and total production have
recovered to the 1970 levels. Mechanized farming, with assistance from
three IDA credits, produces 70 percent of Sudan's sorghum and 40 percent of
its sesame. The Livestock Karketing Project has helped to boost the
export of sheep threefold over the last five years, making livestock the
second largest net earner of foreign exchange. Despite the overall
economic difficulties in Sudan, supporting the agricultural sector has been
effective. The Rahad Project completion report, issued in 1984, provides
evidence of substantial achievements made by government policies in the
irrigated subsector.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
27.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983.  While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
28.       The agricultural sector which accounts for about 40 percent of
Sudan's Gross Domestic Product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force and supplies
inputs for a substantial proportion of industrial activity. The
agricultural sector is characterized by its duality with some 1.6 million
hectares (ha) of modern capital-intensive irrigation and 2.2 million ha of
large-scale rainfed mechaniwed activities co-existing with some 4.3 million
ha of traditional rainfed subsistence agriculture and a ubiquitous
traditional livestock subsector. The major irrigated crops are cotton
(accounting for about 50 percent of Sudan's total exports), groundnuts,
sorghum and wheat; the productivity of these crops registered a steep
decline during the second half of the seventies. The crops grown in the
rainfed areas are sorghum, millet, sesame, groundnuts and short staple
cotton. Like the irrigated subsector, the mechanized farming subsector has
suffered a marked decline in productivity within the last decade. The
principal reasons for the deterioration in Sudan's agricultural performance
during the second half of the 1970's and early 1980's include low prices to
producers for export crops, inadequate foreign exchange allocated for
imported agricultural inputs, the failure of cultural t-chniques in rainfed
mechanized schemes, and a series of years with below normal rainfall.



- 9 -
29.       As part of an economic recovery program, the Government of Sudan
(GOS) concentrates on the completion of ongoing projects and investments
which will contribute most quickly to the growth of exports and domestic
revenues. New projects are limited to those that rehabilitate existing
production schemes and help alleviate marketing bottlenecks. This program
has yielded excellent results in the irrigated schemes. Following heavy
investment by the Government in rehabilitation of irrigation capacity,
yields for cotton, groundnuts and sorghum have increased dramatically since
1980/81. For example, yields in the Gezira scheme have increased between
50-100 percent and are back to the high levels of the early 1970s.
Livestock exports, mainly sheep to Saudi Arabia, have been stimulated by
GOS progressively lowering export taxes and improving services to exporters
over the last five years. Export volumes have increased threefold since
1981 and now include about 600,000 sheep per annum.
30.       Declining rainfall and shortages of imported crop production and
marketing needs, during the decade prior to. 1982/83 brought about declines
in production of groundc-uts, sorghum, sesame, gum arabic and millet.
There is now a general awareness of declining land fertility and of the
problem of increasing population pressure on land in much of the
better-watered rainfed area as the result of migration from locations
affected by desertification. These sectoral constraints have been
exacerbated in Kordofan and recently to some extent in Darfur by the lack
of stability in land tenure for small farmers or communities and by the
allocation of large tracts of land (leasehold) for mechanized farming.
The Project Area
31.       The project area comprises four of the six administrative
districts of the province of South Darfur:  Central, Eastern, Southern and
Southwestern, covering a total area of about 135,000 km2. The human
population of the project area is estimated at about 1.18 million (1983
census provisional) including about 200,000 nomads.  Population growth has
been rapid in recent years, perhaps even 4-5 percent per annum, as a result
of both natural increase and inward migration mainly from North Darfur and
Chad caused by a long period of drought in the northern areas. Rainfall
varies between 300 mm in the north and 800 mm in the south, with an average
in the main areas of cultivation of 500-600 mm per annum. In recent years,
rainfall has been declining both in the project area and further to the
north.
32.       The Western Savannah is located between latitudes 100 and 14°,
and extends from the Nile corridor west to the Chad border. In this area,
the virtual absence of all-weather roads, an unreliable railway system and
paucity of other infrastructure is a direct reflection of the low GOS
budgetary allocations in the past. Social services are limited to major
centers of population and difficult to sustain. GOS staff are reluctant to
accept postings to these areas, and many positions remain vacant for long
periods of time. In addition, the semi-arid climate of the Western
Savannah makes sedentary farming and herding difficult, particularly in the
absence of assured year-round sources of water. Under high grazing
pressure, the spread of the desert southward has seen the gradual



- 10 -
replacement of trees by shrubs. Vegetation in the woodland savannah of
Southern Darfur varies to some extent depending on soils, but in recent
years has assumed characteristics and species previously found only in the
semi-desert further north.
33.       Principal sources of water in the rural areas are seasonal
streams and natural lakes and ponds supplemented by shallow wells. Since
1947, GOS has constructed a network of deep boreholes equipped with pumps,
diesel engines, and elevated water tanks which feed sales points from taps
and troughs in enclosures known as wateryards. There are 328 boreholes in
233 wateryards in the project area. Under WSP-I, 150 of these wateryards
have been rehabilitated. A system of regular wateryard maintenance will be
installed for all these wateryards under the proposed project.
Experience with Past Lending under WSP-I
34.       The Government's long term strategy for developing the Western
Savannah aims at reversing the environmental deterioration in the region by
changing the modes of soil utilization and providing more water in this
region without irrigation. WSP-I started in 1982 as a modest pilot
opertion to help formulate this strategy. According to an evaluation
report prepared in 1984, the project made reasonable progress in a number
of its components, in particular: establishing pilot settlements and
enclosures, changing grazing patterns and cultivation techniques,
rehabilitation of wateryards and improving veterinary services. The good
start of the project agency WSDC and the above results encouraged
Government and donors to continue the pilot efforts in a Second Phase.
35.       Under the pilot settlement program of WSP-I, about 1,500 families
were allocated individual land holdings with 20-year renewable leases.
Applicants for those leases greatly exceeded the holdings available. GOS
policy for agriculture in South Darfur includes the development of a land
tenure system. WSP-I provided a means by which several patterns of land
tenure could be tested. The opportunity to open new settlements would be
limited by availability of suitable land with adequate water. The
potential area in appropriate block sizes is probably limited to about 0.5
million ha, but land use planning in the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC) has not yet completed mapping of these locations.
36.       The identification of limiting factors to agricultural
production, the testing of fertilizer, rotations, cultivation practices,
seed dressing, use of animal and mechanized traction, inter alia, and the
adaptation of those innovations which enhance productivity within existing
farming systems would be continued under WSP-II. Tested technical
innovations being applied or which are ready for application include seed
dressing, phosphate application to millet, animal traction and veterinary
services. Alluvial soil tractor cultivation using chisel ploughs has been
shown to be productive and profitable but requires further trials into
depth of ploughing and subsequent cultivations. Village community land
enclosure for deferred grazing has also been shown to increase cattle
production and improve composition and density of swards, but has limited
replicability until a provincial land use and land tenure pclicy has been



- 11 -
defined. Forage and pasture development from seed is in various stages of
identification and development. Viable forage legumes for use in fallows
have been identified, but range and pasture rehabilitation improvement
using extensive seeding techniques such as aerial spraying are so far
untried.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project was prepared by the Government with assistanca from
IDA. The project was appraised in April 1985. A report entitled 'Western
Savannah Project-Phase II No. 5814-SU- dated November 13, 1985 is being
distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.;-. from
October 22-24, 1985. The delegation was led by Dr. E.A.A. Zaki, Under
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Project Objectives
38.       The major objective of the project is to maintain and gradually
raise the standard of living of the population of the project area by
increasing the availability and security of food and water supplies without
a concomitant increase in environmental degradation. Because of low
inherent soil fertility and a lack of off-farm inputs, crop production is
largely dependent on exploitative shifting cultivation. Increased
production per area and a dramatic reduction in the period required for
regenerative fallow are essential if the area is to supply adequate food
for an ever increasing population. The present livestock production system
of sedentary and nomadic communities are also exploitative and lead to
degradation of the environment. Improved management of grazing areas and
introduction of new fodder species are crucial to the long-term viability
of the livestock industry.
Project Components
39.       The project, which would be implemented over five years, would
support four divisions in WSDC: Agricultural Development Division (ADD),
Engineering Services (ESD), Administration and Financial Services (AFD),
and Monitoring and Evaluation (MED). It would also finance some activities
of the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Stations (WSARS).
The Agricultural Development Division
40.       Enhanced smallholder crop production would take place under the
project mainly on the sandy (Qoz) soil areas within wateryard settlements,
but limited mechanized development of alluvial (Naga'a) soils is also
planned. There would be project activities to enhance livestock production
in basement areas with both sedentary and nomadic communities.
Agricultural development would be generated by the following inter-related
project investments.



- 12 -
41.       Settlements.  The project would provide support for three new and
four existing settlements, each of which would accommodate about 450
families on about 21,000 ha, of which about 9,000 ha would be grazing land
on the periphery of the settlement area, and 12,000 ha in a cultivation and
grazing fallow rotation. In addition to those seven settlements on the
WSP-I model, the project would establish eight new community settlements on
a model in which land would be surveyed, demarcated and allocated in one
block to the community dependent on each wateryard, but which would not
include surveying and demarcation of individual holdings. The site
establishment costs, including operation of water supplies and
administrative staff costs for 3-5 years, for these two types of
settlements will vary from the equivalent of about US$800 per family for
community settlements to US$1,200 per family for settlements with
individually demarcated and registered land holdings.
42.       The project will attempt to determine the least expensive way of
effectively assisting settlement and establishing land tenure by comparing
the two settlement models and by monitoring the results of providing only
extension services to 45 wateryard communities. Before the existing land
use pattern could be modified or settlement extended on to new areas beyond
those proposed under the project, GOS must decide on a policy for land
tenure in the province. The Government would submit to the Association for
review and comments not later than June 30, 1987, its proposals for a land
tenure policy in South Darfur and consult with WSDC and the appropriate
regional authorities before any major land use decisions are taken during
the life of the project.
43.       Veterinary Services.  The project would continue the WSP-I
program to improve the Veterinary Services Administration's (VSA's)
capability to effectively control the major epidemic diseases. Vehicles,
refrigeration equipment and materials would be provided to VSA, and the
Drug Revolving Fund established under WSP I would be enlarged. The
effectiveness of the epidemic disease control programs would be enhanced by
the provision of glassware for vaccine production to the Central Veterinary
Laboratory (CVL). Additional laboratory supplies to the Regional
Veterinary Research Laboratory (RVRL) would strengthen disease monitoring
services in the project area both for VSA and for private veterinary
practitioners. Veterinary Scouts would be trained by VSA and utilized to
supply trypanocidal drugs to nomads in remote areas. The Agricultural Bank
of Sudan would make loans to private veterinary practitioners or companies
to enable them to buy vehicles, equipment and an initial supply of drugs.
44.        Range and Pasture Improvement.  The project would support
initiatives aimed at combating desertification and deterioration of grazing
land. Specifically, the program would: (i) identify suitable fodder and
forage species for introduction to different agro-ecological zones; (ii)
establish grasses, legumes and browse species on project settlement
communal grazing areas; (iii) introduce improved grasses and legumes 'nto
tht fallow sequence of the crop rotation; (iv) improve the species
composition in rotationally grazed enclosures used in controlled grazing
schemes; (v) establish a capacity for the production of seed of forage and
fodder species; and (vi) maintain regional firebreaks.



- 13 -
45.       Forestry and Rangeland Rehabilitation.  Under the proposed
project, farmers and farming communities would be encouraged to plant trees
and shrubs in community-owned woodlots, around homesteads and on-farm and
field boundaries. Initial forestry efforts would be concentrated in the
wateryards/settlements where extension is scheduled to operate. FD would
be strengthened under the project by the provision of vehicles, camping
equipment, office furniture and incremental operating costs.
46.       Research and Extension.  The three Development Centers
established under WSP-I would continue under the proposed project to
concentrate on adaptive research and the generation of technology for the
several agro-ecological zones of the project area. To strengthen linkages
with the extension services, some extension staff would be located at the
Development Centers. A credit officer stationed at each centre would
provide a link between the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and farmers who
require credit to enable them to take up new technology being generated by
the centers. These Centers would carry out adaptive research program and
also serve as training and demonstration sites. Training would be provided
on a regular basis for Extension Agents (EA) and selected farmers in
extension methodology and improved technology.  Demonstrations would
include new techniques for using animal draft power, live fencing, new crop
and pasture species and varieties, and the use of trees for fodder, wind
breaks, and fuel. Seed cleaning and grading equipment would be provided,
and the clean millet seed would be sold through the Extension Services.
47.       Input Distribution.  The project provides funds for fertilizer,
seed dressing material and animal-drawn implements which farmers will take
up as a result of the project. These items will be sold to farmers at cost
plus a distribution charge. It is expected that local markets will take
over the supply as already happened for seed dressing in parts of Darfur.
48.       Agricultural Extension.  Under the project, an extension service
would be established in WSDC and the existing service of AED would be
strengthened in order to extend the technology and insure better
distribution of agricultural inputs. The project would provide technical
assistance (TA) in those areas where GOS, WSDC and WSARP agree that the
necessary qualified and experienced staff are not available locally.
49.       Training.  The project would provide training for staff of the
Agricultural Development Division locally and in other Africa countries
ranging from short seminars of four weeks to courses of up to three
months. Overseas training leading to professional qualifications and
on-the-job training and workshops for farmers would also be covered by the
project.  The training would cover various subjects in extension, range and
livestock production and crop farming techniqueF in semi-arid areas.
50.       Strengthening Local Institutions.  The project makes financial
provision to enable WSDC to identify and implement an institutional
development program in order to strengthen District, Rural and Village
Councils, and Traditional Authorities including Nazirs, Omdas and Sheikhs
within the project area by demonstration and training. Other solely
project-related institutions will also need assistance by on-site training
and exposure to other similar organizations whose example would be
tutorial.



- 14 -
The Engineering Services Division
51.       Wateryards.  Eleven new wateryards with two tubewells each would
be built on the settlements program. The project would rehabilitate an
additional 54 wateryards. Concurrently, the project would assist NWC to
establish a comprehensive ongoing maintenance system for the 224 wateryards
in the project area. Materials which WSDC would procure for NWC under the
project would be vehicles, vehicle spares and tools, and wateryard spares
to service tubewell pumps, engines and delivery systems. Provision is made
for the construction of two new hafirs (water storage ponds) and
rehabilitation of six existing hafirs to serve nomadic communities who take
part in the pasture improvement program.
52.       Roads and Tracks.  The project would continue the track
improvement program commenced in WSP-I and would construct 24 Irish
bridges, 6 culverts, and 37 km of raised earth road. The possibility of a
bridge over the Wadi Ibra would be studied and if possible, a bridge would
be constructed. All these works are required to facilitate access to
locations in the area where project developments would take place.
The project would also finance a study to determine the viability of
upgrading the track between Nyala and Buram, which carries the greatest
volume of produce marketed from the project area.
53.       Training.  Funds are provided for courses of about three months
duration to train eight technicians in Sudan and three overseas. One
person will be trained for one year overseas in engineering relevant to
water flows and water harvesting in arid areas. One four-week course to
train machinery operators/tractor drivers in Darfur by an overseas
recruited trainer is also provided.
Administration and Financial Services Division
54.       The project would provide funds for office and workshop extension
and additional fuel storage capacity at WSDC headquarters. Vehicles,
machinery and equipment are also provided for in this subcomponent. Funds
have also been provided to enable WSDC to pay for the cost of using WSARP
aircraft to improve communication between Nyala and Khartoum. Training in
this division would include: (a) Project management and administration
training on 3-4 months overseas courses for three trainees; (b) Financial
management training on a one year overseas course for one trainee; and (c)
Training in Khartoum for storekeepers, clerical staff and bookkeepers.
Thirty staff members would attend courses of three months duration.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Division
55.       This division would have two main functions, first to monitor and
advise the project management on the pace of implementation and the
efficiency of resource utilization under the project, and second to



- 15 -
determine the project impact both on beneficiaries and the environment.
The project would provide staff, materials and vehicles for the expanded
role of the M&E Division.
56.       Trainin.  In this division, training on 3-4 month courses in
Sudan will be for two trainees.  One will study computer operation and the
other the collection of agricultural data for statistical analysis.
Western Sudan Agricultural Research Stations
57.      The Agricultural Research Project (Credit 834-SU) built two
research stations in Kordofan and two in Darfur. USAID, who cofinanced
that project, will continue to support the recurrent costs of the two
stations built in Kordofan. The project provides donor funding for the
foreign exchange costs associated with operation of the WSARP stations at
Ghazala Gowazat in south Darfur and El Fasher in north Darfur. Funds to
meet the cost of operating the project aircraft to the WSARP Kordofan
stations at El Obeid and Kadugli in addition to those in Darfur are
similarly provided. Local operating costs are part of the GOS contribution
to the project. Minor research and laboratory equipment and vehicles are
provided.
58.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Provision is made for two
animal production specialists, soil and water convervation specialists and
an economist each for three years of resident service. Provision is also
made to train two local scientists for higher qualifications and would
provide short terms training for two scientists.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at US$43.8 million, including
taxes and duties of about US$1.1 million. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$29.0 million or 66 percent of the total project cost. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
60.       The cost estimates are based on March 1985 figures updated to
September 1985 baseline price levels and are derived from the preparation
report, recent quotations, and appraisal estimates. No physical
contingencies have been applied to technical assistance and aircraft hire,
and 10 percent has been applied to all other project costs. Price
contingencies for locally procured items have been estimated at 25 percent
in 1986, 18.7 percent for 1987, 16 percent for 1988, 15 percent for 1989
and thereafter. For foreign items, price contingencies have been estimated
at 7.5 percent for 1986, 8 percent for 1987 and thereafter.
61.       An advance of US$0.7 million from the Project Preparation
Facility has been approved to cover cost of (i) technical assistance - for
consultant services and training, (ii) equipment, spare and supplies; and
(iii) aircraft and vehicle operations.
62.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 10.2 million (US$10.6 million)
would finance about 25 percent of the total project costs, net of taxes and
duties. Under joint financial arrangements, IFAD would cofinance the



- 16 -
project in the amount of US$9.9 million equivalent. IDA and IFAD will
jointly finance Settlements, Veterinary Services, Range, Pasture and
Forestry Improvement, hafir and road and track improvement, project
administration, monitoring and evaluation, and the Darfur research
stations. Under parallel financing arrangements, ODA would contribute
US$10.7 million for the financing of wateryard construction and
rehabilitation, research and extension activities, four-wheel drive
vehicles and trucks, and some technical assistance. The Government would
finance US$12.6 million equivalent of the local costs, plus taxes and
duties. The Government would make available as grants about US$9.0 million
of the IDA credit to WSDC and US$1.6 million to ARC.
63.       The IFAD loan would be on highly concessional terms:  interest at
1 percent with 50 years repayment, including a 10 year grace period.
Fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the IFAD loan agreement
including appointment of the Association as cooperating institution to
administer the loan, would be conditions of credit effectiveness. The ODA
grant would be made through a separate financing agreement, with
notification of ODA financing approval as a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit. Government's contribution would be US$11.5 million or 27
percent of net project costs. However, over the five year implementation
period, it is estimated that Government would recover US$4.5 million from
wateryard revenues, the sale of veterinary drugs, farm inputs, and I.aga'a
cultivation services.
Project Implementation
64.       As in WSP-I, WSDC would be the executing agency responsible for
planning, coordinating and monitoring the project activities and
implementing a major part of them. WSDC is a public corporation under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Central Government.
65.       Following the Central Government change in April 1985, the role
and status of Darfur regional authorities and their responsibilities have
yet to be defined. However, in the light of experience over the last seven
years and in order to make provision for the most beneficial composition of
WSDC's Board of Directors during the project and beyond, it will be
necessary for the Central Government to review the composition of the Board
not later than December 31, 1986. At negotiations, the Government
delegation confirmed that project beneficiaries would have three
representatives on the Board.
66.       To date WSDC has operated three divisions:  Agricultural Services
(ASD), Engineering Services (ESD), and Administration and Finance Division
(AFD). A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) outside these
divisions reports directly to the Director General (DG). During the
project, ASD would be redesignated as the Agricultural Development Division
(ADD). The work involved with monitoring and evaluation would be broadened
and split between that concerned with project implementation and that
concerned with project impact. The PMEU would be designated the Monitoring
and Evaluation Division (MED).
67.       In addition to the Director General, WSDC has 15 senior staff
(Grade 5 and above) including five expatriate consultants in post. The



- 17 -
present Deputy Director General (DDG) has been mainly located in Khartoum
where he has performed primarily in an administrative capacity. Under
the project, a second DDG would be appointed not later than June 30, 1987.
The existing DDG would handle Administration and Services (AFD, ES and
NED), and the second DDG appointed under the project would be responsible
for Agricultural Development (ADD).  The expatriate heads of ADD and MED
would continue in executive positions through the first two years of the
project. Sudanese would be expected to take executive responsibility soon
thereafter, and the expatriates would then become advisors. The DDG
(Admin) would head the Administration and Finance Division until an
appointment is made to that position not later than year 4 of the project.
The Engineering Services Division would be headed by a Sudanese engineer
from the beginning of the project. MED would continue to be headed by an
internationally-recruited Agricultural Economist and a Sudanese would take
over this responsibility in year 3 of the project.
68.       Training would be provided for representatives of local
institutions in the formulation and implementation of policy. To achieve
this, a small Institutional Development Unit (IDU) would be formed in ADD
to coordinate their activities. The Sudan Academy for Administrative
Services (SAAS) would play an active role in setting up the IDU, and in
addition the project provides for a short-term input of technical
assistance for that purpose. The training program of IDU would be
identified by WSDC during the first year of the project and commence from
year 2. The proposed program will be sent to IDA for review before being
implemented by WSDC.
The Cooperating Agencies
69.       The South Darfur Provincial Government departments with whom WSDC
had cooperating arrangements under WSP-I were the Veterinary Services
Administration (VSA) including the regional laboratory and research
service, the Range and Pasture Administration (RPA) and the National Water
Corporation (NWC). WSDC also liaised with the Roads and Public Bridges
Corporation in carrying out its limited road improvement program.  These
Cooperating Agencies (CA) would again feature in the project. In addition,
the Agricultural Extension Department (AED) and the Forestry Department
(FD) would become CA's. Under individual annual work programs agreed with
WSDC, the CAs would implement components of the project. WSDC would as in
the first phase continue to monitor and evaluate these programs. During
the implementation period of the proposed project, the CAs would continue
to receive financial support from the government to meet current
expenditure, so as to ensure that project funds would be incremental.
70.       MED would assist NWC to assess water supply costs.  NWC, in
consultation with WSDC, would be authorized to decide and set the level of
water charges in the project area, and such water charges would be
increased progressively to reach full economic cost recovery by the end of
project year 3. NWC would retain funds collected to defray operating
costs, except for any element of local tax. WSDC in cooperation with local
authorities in the project area would conduct a study to determine how best



- 18 -
to maintain the improvement of water supply services achieved under WSP-I.
The study would assess the need to devolve wateryard ownership to
communities and financial autonomy to NWC in the province. The WSDC would
undertake the study not later than June 30, 1987.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
71.       Semi-annual progress reports covering that portion of the project
implemented by WSDC will be submitted to IDA and IFAD not later than two
months after the completion of each reporting period. A project completion
report will be prepared not later than six months after project completion.
Future Role of WSDC
72.       In order to achieve sequential project implementation with WSDC
strengthening CA's and local institutions, and progressively expanding
their capacity and impact, it is necessary for GOS to foresee and define
the future of WSDC post project. Such definition would be dependent on the
RG's future status and role in agriculture in South Darfur. The findings
of a current GOS Task Force on Institutions, Credit and Finance would also
be pertinent to any decision regarding the future of WSDC. The Government
would prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments
not later than June 30, 1987, a position paper on WSDC's future role and
operations.
Mid-Term Review
73.       GOS would require WSDC to carry out a project mid-term review
together with donors not later than December 31, 1988. This timing would
enable the findings of the review to be implemented in two full growing
seasons within the life of the project. Because of the pilot nature of
some project components including the range and pasture proposals, the
forestry component, the work on Naga'a soils and the institutional
development program, the mid-term review would be of critical importance in
achieving the maximum impact from project funds during the latter half of
the project implementation period.
Procurement
74.       Contracts for offshore materials for the building program (US$0.9
million) and road and track improvement (US$1.8 million) would be procured
by ICB in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Contracts for
construction component of buildings (US$0.9 million) would be procured by
local competitive bidding. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive
a preference in ICB bid evaluation of 15 percent and qualifying domestic
contractors a preference of 7% percent. Vehicles not purchased by ODA
(US$0.3 million) would be procured by ICB. In order to maximize resource
utilization, WSDC would ensure that all vehicles procured will be diesel
powered, unless otherwise agreed by the Association on an exceptional
basis. Assurances would be sought from suppliers on servicing facilities
within the project area. Procurement of items financed by ODA would be in
accordance with their procedures.



- 19 -
75.       Miscellaneous equipment not purchased by ODA (US$2.1 million),
including agricultural, workshop and radio equipment, would be purchased in
numbers of units inappropriate for ICB. These items would be purchased
through Limited International Tendering procedures for contracts estimated
to cost over US$200,000 each, and by International Shopping for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each.  Contracts for goods estimated
to cost less than US$20,000 each would be made by prudent local shopping or
by purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three quotations, but
such contracts would total no more than US$0.5 million. Spare parts for
machinery, equipment and vehicles (US$1.9 million) would be purchased by
quotations from the manufacturers of equipment specific spares, and other
reliable parts manufacturers and dealers for generic spares. Farm inputs
not purchased by ODA (US$100,000) and veterinary drugs (US$1.3 million)
would be purchased through the same procedures as miscellaneous equipment
(above). Aircraft services (US$2.1 million) would be provided to WSDC and
to the WSARS by WSARP operating its existing aircraft or it would be
procured through a negotiated contract with a local aircraft operating
company acceptable to WSDC and IDA/IFAD.
76.       The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants funded by
IDA and IFAD (US$4.3 million) would be according to IDA guidelines and
would be subject to IDA/IFAD review. Overseas and local training (US$2.0
million) would be by direct placement for which procurement procedures are
inapplicable. Operating expenses include US$4.8 million equivalent for
local salaries which would be met from GOS's contribution, US$5.7 million
for fuel and lubricants which would be procured from GOS, and US$1.6 for
miscellaneous expenses such as animals, building rental and other
administrative costs.
77.       All bidding packages for services, works and goods estimated to
cost over US$200,000 would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation. This would result in a coverage of about 65 percent of the
total estimated value of the contracts financed by IDA/IFAD. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after contract
award.
Disbursement
78.      The Association will disburse against: (i) 50 percent of foreign
expenditures and 40 percent of local expenditures for civil works,
buildings and road construction; (ii) 50 percent of foreign expenditures,
50 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 40 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured lecally for vehicles, machinery,
equipment, farm inputs and veterinary drugs; (iii) 50 percent of total cost
for technical assistance and training and aircraft operations and (iv) 50
percent of foreign expenditures, and 40 percent of local expenditures for
incremental operating expenses. The IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be
administered by IDA. Disbursements over six years against project
expenditures would be shared equally between IDA and IFAD on those goods or
services which are to be jointly financed. The disbursement profile for
IDA Eastern Africa agricultural projects indicate average disbursement



- 20 -
periods of eight years. The shorter disbursement period assumed for the
proposed project is justified because a major part of the project
activities are follow-on activities from the three-year first phase, and
WSDC is operative and well managed. The first phase funding has been
disbursed on time, and other pre-implementation preparation activities are
being carried out in the interim between the two projects.
79.      Disbursements against all items would be based on full
documentation, except operating expenses and contracts fnr goods and
services valued at less than $20,000 which would require only a Statement
of Expenditure (SOE), a procedure well within the capacity of WSDC
management. Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted for
review but retained at WSDC and WSARP headquarters for inspection by IDA
supervision missions. The project would be completed on June 30, 1991 and
the Closing date of the credit will be June 30, 1992.
80.      In order to ensure smooth implementation of this project, WSDC has
maintained a project account (in the Bank of Sudan) during WSP-I through
which local and foreign funds have been channelled. GOS would replenish
this account quarterly to bring the balance in the account to LSd 500,000
to ensure that WSDC has adequate working capital. In addition, Government
would provide for local salaries and allowances. To facilitate timely
disbursements, the Government will open a special account in the Bank of
Sudan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. IDA, at the
request of the Government, will deposit into the account an initial sum of
SDR 250,000 equivalent which will be used to finance eligible expenditures
under the project. The account will be replenished by the Association on
the basis of documentation evidencing eligible expenditures. The opening
of the special account will be a condition of effectiveness.
Accounts, Audit and Government Funding
81.      The WSDC would, under the direction of its internationally
recruited Financial Controller, maintain its accounting system to enable
the investments and revenues included under the project and the sources of
funding to be identified. Separate accounts would be kept for project
revolving funds. Accounts would progressively be computerized to
facilitate identification of variable and fixed costs, and to enable
management and donors to examine the efficiency of resource use.
82.      As in WSP-I, SOEs would be accounted for separately under the
project. SOEs covering periods of three months would be verified by
auditors within three months of the end of each period. Annual accounts,
Special Accounts and SOEs would be audited by independent commercial
auditors acceptable to the Association.  The audited annual accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to IDA
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. Should GOS
require the Auditor General to audit WSDC's accounts, WSDC would not be
relieved of the obligation to have its accounts audited by commercial
auditors.



- 21 -
Environmental Impact
83.      The project is expected to produce a lasting improvement in soil
fertility and vegetative cover throughout the project area. Development of
environment sustaining farming systems became a central feature of WSP-I
and would continue, with strengthening of staff and facilities under the
project. Localized degradation which has been caused by overgrazing around
wateryards would be addressed by several innovative methods of herd and
flock management and ground cover regeneration.
84.      Management of village herds on the WSP-I Um Belut model, which has
demonstrated improvements in ground cover and forage yield of 20-40 percent
under WSP-I, will be replicated to about 15 additional areas. The project
will provide the means to establish large numbers of trees around house
compounds and in arable areas. In the northern section of the project area
large-scale, low-cost range improvement using well adapted trees and shrubs
will aim to regenerate large degraded areas. No farm inputs supplied under
the project would have any adverse effect on the environment. Operation of
boreholes installed or rehabilitated under the project is not expected to
have any effect on the water table in the project area.
Economic Benefits and Justification
85.      The project would increase production of millet, sorghum, ground-
nuts and livestock. Food crop production would prevent a further decline
in the region's self-sufficiency, and livestock production will directly
contribute to Sudan's export earnings. At full development, the net annual
incremental benefits (1985 constant prices) would be LSd 51.6 million.
86.     The project would sustain rural employment of 13.0 million man days
at full development. In addition, 0.7 million man days of rural employment
would be created by increasing farming area. In addition to the above
quantifiable benefits, major project justification is rendered by
intangible benefits, would consist of:
(a) improvement of the overall use of the natural resources by
re-opening and maintaining areas for crop and livestock
production which were abandoned due to lack of water;
(b) the contribution of clean water supply to human and animal
health;
(c)  regeneration of range and increase in its carrying capacity in
response to revegetation and re-seeding programs and management
techniques; and
(d) creation of a self-sustaining farming system, based on integrated
crop/livestock operations.
Partly due to the experimental nature of these programs and partly due to
the inherent difficulties in estimating reliable parameters, no attempt has
been made to quantify those benefits or that from increased milk production



- 22 -
resulting from the project. In addition as a result of the project's road
maintenance activities, transport costs would be reduced, and improved
roads will increase competition between traders as well as facilitate
farmers' direct access to wholesale markets. The project will also
strengthen the private sector by actively encouraging its involvement in
input supply, provision of private tractor services, manufacturing of
animal drawn equipment and establishment of private veterinary services.
In view of its pilot project nature, benefits will be realized on a larger
scale in future. However, direct beneficiaries in this phase would be
about 6,750 poor farm families under various settlement programs; these
same and other fRmilies using the improved veterinary services and
pastures. In addition, some nomadic communities would benefit from
improved water retention systems.
87.     The economic rate of return is estimated to be 35 percent.  The
high economic rate of return reflects the significant amount of sunk
capital in deep wells and the project's aim to increase efficiency of
facility and service operations, primarily in provision of water and
veterinary services. Inspite of the safeguards provided in the project and
the proven strong performance of management, the risks mentioned below
could materialize to varying degrees. To estimate how resistant the
project would be to such risks, a number of sensitivity tests were carried
out. These showed that the project is sensitive to reduction and/or
delayed benefits but not to the extent of reducing the economic rate of
return below the opportunity cost of capital, even when costs are up by 20
percent and benefits delayed by 2 years. The switching values test shows
that benefits would have to decrease by 36 percent or costs increase by 64
percent for the net present value of the project discounted at the
opportunity cost of capital.
Risks
88.      Major risks for project success arise out of the tenuous overall
economic situation of the country. In particular, shortage of imported
inputs, and an inefficient logistical support system may result in delays
to project implemenutation and cost overruns. Another risk is the
uncertain role, capacity and degree of cooperation which the project can
stimulate in traditional leaders and local elected authorities. It will be
heavily dependent on government employees over whom WSDC has little direct
control.  The biggest technical risk is in the range seeding program which
will use untried technology. However, no economic benefit has been assumed
from that component, and if it fails completely it would not jeopardize the
success of other components or the project as a whole.  Measures against
such risks included in the project are a strong training component, project
financing of imported incremental recurrent inputs, privatization of the
veterinary service and a study of how best to maintain the improvement to
water supply services achieved under WSP-I. Intensification of cost
recovery during implementation would ensure sustenance of the activities
started under the project.



- 23 -
PART V - RECOMXENDATION
89.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments:
November 12. 1985



-  24  -
Annex I
T A B L  I 1A                                     CAC  I
sUA                   - sOCiL IfhICATO    DATA WT
SUDi                                  _ENCE cows ci    iciMn  £1f3    7
WVsT                     (c       uCWr ETIAI) lb
KISmE          LOW INCM AFRCA                   s EuN
i,r/b      1970Jb zsruU. /b         s     oem a aI S    3. or SAM
am CIUUZ Ng. DO)
TOALI                            2505.6      2505.6     2505.8
AcRtICLiWAJ                       667.0      *77.0       AM .5
IP  cArlT  (3)                         ..         ..        400.0             238.a                    02.3-
mN  immwm             CA IuA
CxILoGRUS or OIL rQIALD)           40.0       113.0       70.0              62.3                    581.5
POPLaInOM.NID-TKARC (CUOAIS)  I1165.0    1359.0    20b07.0
gums POwMATfO  CZ OF TOTAL)        10.3       16.4        20.2              20.1                     32.0
POPULAlON Ptoncrioa
FrOIuATION IN 1    2000 (NW)                            33.4
STATTISM  POPULAXION CHIlL)                            102.0
POPUMllO DCHNIUT                                         .9
POPULATION DUSK??
v sQ. M.                          4.5        5.5        8.3               33.2                     05.1
PM SQ. Ml. AGI. LAe              16.7       20.5       29.5              112.8                    124.8
rorut       Au z STactWCum  (I)
0-14 nRS                        43.6       43.7        44.9              46.0                     45.4
15-64 US                         53.2       53.3       52.2               soa                      51.5
hS AM Acii                        3_1        2.9         2.7               2.9                      2.7
roPULATIO  caRn Ra   CZ)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.2         3.1               2.S                      2.9
euM                               0.9        6.8         6.3               Ga                       5.1
CRmOs Dim  armt (N  TIKeS)         47.0       47.0        46.0              *7.2                     47.0
Cluas RAZE ATE (win TnoS)          25.4       22.1        17.4              11.8                     15.0
rSac  REPUOCUCTION RATE             3.3        3.3         3.2               3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PLAUISI
ACCZPTOKS. AUAL CTU-S)            .
USS C OFNAIRIMIOUN                ..         .. 5      0     IC            3.3                      6.4
LDKK OF OD PROD. PU CWITA
(1969-71-100)                      92.0      100.0        U4.0              B33                      32.9
M CAPITA SULY Or
cALIES CZ or O       szQUISINNS)  30.0      92.0        92.0              57.7                     n3.5
PEKIJiS (CGAMS at DAT)           61.0       66.0        61.0              51.9                     55.4
or MUCH ARiUAL AND PruSE        24.0       22.0        21.0!.            18.7                     16.5
CKILD (as 1-4) OFR RASE            42.0       32.0        19.0              23.1                     16.6
LI  Err]=a.T sr 1C  (Tas)          33_7       *Ia        43.0               07.3                     52.0
DIVAN? "UT. aZ ("t TOWS)          169.0      15O.S       117.0             119.5                    Ol0.
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (110P)
OTL                               ..         19.0       46.0 If           27.1                     42a
CREAM                             ..        61.0        49.0 7            63.5                     67.5
RUM                               ..        13.0       45.0 7!            193                      35.6
ACCESS TO ETSA DISIOSAL
CZ OF POr oIATICU)
TOTAL                             ..        16.0        17.3 It           26.3                     28.9
M                                                       8.   3.0 7        65.4                     57.7
KIUAL                             ..         ..          ..               20.3                     20.7
POPULATI   M PRsICI             33230.0    14070.0     3930.0 A          2790.7                   nt9I.7
POP. P  NUSE PERSON              3010.0 lh  1720.0      1630.0 7          3306.4                   259J.
PoP. bUl 3ospIIL an
TOTAL                           970.0 /I   920.0 It  1050.0 /           1273.6                    961.1
Ulm                         130.0 7i £ 190.071   370.0 To            423.2                    26.
RURAL                          4370.0  7 130.o 7    16370.0 o           3292.5                   437.9
ADnXSSzmS PR    bAP    35           ..         ..          ..                ..                      27.2
AVRAGE sIm oF EGUSSIOLD
TOTAL                             ,,         5.1
tlA                               ..         3.7          ..
RUAL                              .           ..                             .,
AVRSE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOt
TOTAL                             ..          ..
UgiS                              ..         2.5fl       .....
mini...                              ..         .                   ..
remiss or citi.ma SSn macr.
TOTAL                             ..          ..         .                  ..
CRAm       ~..                      20.4 j       *                 Z.
aUU                               ..          ..         .                  ..



-  25  -                                                Annex I
T A C L C 34                                     PACL 2
SUDAN                    SOCAL IMICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDoN                              RCIIRRCC CGOUS (WCICGD AVEtUAS) /-
MOST                    (mOST RCENT EsrIMTE lb
KICENT         LOW r11011 AFRICA       MDDLE LMICOMZ
1960/h     1970nb rmre!!           SOUTH OF SAUARA      ARICA s. or sAIARA
ADmSTED ENRIOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  25.0       38.0       52.0               67.8                    95.7
taLE                   35.0       46.0       61.0              77.6                    100.0
FEMSLE                 16.0       Z9.0       43.0              54.9                     83.2
SECONDAlRY: TOTAL                 3.0        7.0        18.0              13.5                    17.3
HALE                    5.0       10.0       20.0              17.9                     25.0
PIMLE                   1.0        4.0       15.0               9.1                     14.8
VOCATONAL (C OF SBCOHA)             3.4        1.4 1k     4.0 1kL          13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEICLE RATIO
PRIMARY                          41.0       47.0       33.0              44.9                     41.1
SECNDARY                         20.0       17.0       23.0              27.4                     25.5
coinmwuau
PASSMICER CARS/THOISAND POP         1.4        2.0        ..                3.8                     20.8
RADIo RuECEzvERs/TNOuJAD POP       17.0 Im    80.3       71.9              55.8                    107.8
Tv uCEERvSITumJSA) POP              0.87i     3.2        5.4               2.6                     20.8
NEUSPAPER C"DAXLT (ENYAL
INTEREST') CXRaULAON
FM THOUSAUD POPULATIO              4.4        9.2        1.0 /c            5.0                     18.4
CINEU ANNUAL ATrENANCAPITA          0.9                   0.1               0.5                      0.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCe (WS)           3701.0     4547.0     63B6.0
FEMA  (PERCENT)                   9.6       10.2       11.1              34.2                     36.2
ASRIOMIUE (PpERCTNT)             86.0       82.0        78.0 A           77.5                     54.5
IOUISTRT (PERCENT)                6.0        8.0        10.0              9.7                     18.3
PARICPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            33.2       32.8        30.7              39.3                    36.8
HALE                             59.3       58.2       54.2               50.9                    47.1
FEMALE                            6.4        6.6        6.9              Z8.1                     27.2
ZECNOMIC DEPENDCf RATIO             1.4        1.A         1.S              1.3                      1.3
INOS UIInI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE Dt OME
RECEIVED BT
ICHEST S0 or HOUSEHOLDS          20.9 /a a
HICGESS 20S OF WOSEOLDS          5O.1       49.2 /
LOVE  0Sz  OF HOUSESOLDS          5.0        5.1 ii
LOWEST 40S o0 HWSEOLDS           L3.9       14.5 i       ..
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PORtY  ZhE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR                                ..         ..        137.0 if          165.5                   590.7
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..              95.0                    275.3
ZSTIMATD   WArm POVERY  INCOME
LZVEL CuSS PER CAITA)
URB                               ..         ..        115.0 If          113.1                   545.6
RURAL                             ..         ..          100.0           67.6                    201.1
ESTIMA    POP. BELOW ABSOLU
POVErTY INOSE LEVEL (S)
r               URBAN                              ..         ..         ..               36.6
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..               61.8
NOT AVAILABlE
NOT APPLICAE
NO T E S
/a  Te group averama for each indicator are population-weAted aritb  tic mean. Cb.rsg of countrie
aug the ituiestors depends on daaibility of data and La not unlEarm.
/b  Unless otberwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any yer betue 1959 an 1961; "Dta for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; end data for "Mot Recent REtimate" bweeu 1981 and 1983.
/c  1979; /d Ages 15-50 years  North only; /e 1977; /f 1976; Jg 1980; lb 1962; IL Covermeat bopletl
aatblib.ent; U 1966; ;k Ieglnning 19g. trh  du atLou of generai eac6dary dcWa*tion was rdd fIEo.
8 to 6 year.;  rInclnd.s program of 5 training centr. operated by Departmet of Labor an 17 short-
teu center. operated by MinLetry of Youth ed Sport; / 1963; /n 1964; /o Omdurman. urban; &  1967-
68.
JUN. 1985



-  26  -                                         Annex I
Page 3
DEFITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nots: Althoughthedataare drawn from sources geneally judged the most authontautveand relaable.aslSouldalso be noted that they may not be sternauonallY
comparable becausc f the lack of standardized definutons and concepts used by different counties an collecting the damta The data amr nonethelks useful to
descnbe orders or magnitudc indiatc trends. and .saraetcrie rtnan major differeceas bctwen countries
Thc reftrenee roups Are  I the same .aunlry group of the subject country and 12) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
I  groupfthcsubject countfreslept or li4tghincomeOilExportcr Sroupwhere -MiddleIneome NorthAfricaand MiddleEast ischosenbecauseofstronger
i  soo-cultural afitusl In the referenm grup data the havrges a*e populaton wcighted anthmeca mseam for each indiator and shown only when majonty
ofthe coumries ma group has data tor tr :rdzcatnr Since Lhe coverage ofcountnes anong tbe indicaton depends on the availabiity ofdata and isa not uniforn.
caution must be cxed in rlating atcrags of one indicator to anodthr These averaes amr only useful in comparing the valuc of onc indicator at a utme .ing
the countuy and referenc groups.
AREA (thousand sq.knL)                                           Crat rth Rare (perhoaji-Number of live births in the year
Teat-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year populationn 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crate Deat  Rare (per t,hasandj-Number of deaths in the year
Agricuhxral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gre  Reprodwtion Rare-Avenge number of daughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specfic fertility rtest usuallv five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. cakulaled bv same conversion method as World      Fatly Plaauing-Accepxers. Assra (boaseadrj-Annual m-
Bank Arias (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                          berofacceptors ofbirth-control devices underauspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of conmercial primary energy (coal and lignitc.      Firdy Paaiag-lUsrs (per  fmard aepercen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nudear and geothermal elec-   tge of married womcn of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Woomen
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15 49. although for
some countries contracepuve usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Popesaffn. .Mi-Yewr (rhomss)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 dala-
UeIrs ofFoodProdurction Per Capita (1969-71 = 100)-Index of per
UJran ftp.laa.n (pa-cent ef tetafl-Ratio Of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may alkct copar  excludes animal feed and seed for agrculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 daa.        iclude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instd of sugaain
ipdalaten Projecions                                             which are edible and contain nutrients leg. coffee and t:; are
Popudation an rear 2000-The projection of population for 200.   eeltuded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatelv. Starting with information on   vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar bets,. livestock. and
total population by agc and sex. fertility rates mortalitv rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each countr is baseta
interational migration in the base year 1980. these parametrs    on narsonal average producer price weights: 196165. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data. *
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capir Supply ofCalories (percen of reqirreueass-Com put-
S:arionary ppdaianon-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic priaduc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = lj. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements -ere
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAQ based on physiological needs for normal actit in.
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. bodv ecights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowsing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenrwn-ls the tendency for population growth to     Fer Capita Supply ofroter (geos per dhp)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacenent-klvel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abovc. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remaitn at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment levcl frorm year : onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populao Dens                                                     average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn:-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 daLa.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capita Protin Sapply Fom Anim  aled Pkdse-Protictn supply
Per sqnkm. agriculftur land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
PopuLatin Age Scrueaire (percentr-Children (0-14 years). work-  Chl (agesz 1-j Death Rae (per rhaisand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 ears). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceti-rotal-Annual growth rates of    from life tablets 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Populati  Grwth Rate (percef)-arhian-Annual growth rates         Life Expertny atr Rink (years)-Number of vears a newhorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960.70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would iive if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-   27   -                            Annex I
Page 4
at the time of of its birth were to stay the satne throughout its life  Pupd-teacaer Ratio - primary, and fecondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      roiLE  in pruriar. and secondary levek divided by numbers of
Infawt Marrt Rate (pe tihusand)-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one yer of age per thousand live births in a give!
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Accas to Safe Water (pereit of pop tlooj-total, urbn, Fd       Passenger Cars (per thousangd popuktionJ-Passenger cars com-
nowa-Number of people (total. urban. an.d rural) with reaso-mbie  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surfacc wate.s or  ances. nearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontauminated water such as that from protected  Rewio Receivers per thosandpopulation)-All types of receivers
boreholes. springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of thedr respec  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
r ive populations. In an urban area a publc fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be conidered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years mav
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas                  *                     * c
reaonable access would  ply that the housewife or members of the  not becowmparable since most cuntones abolished licensing.
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of th    V Recder (per thyos     p     -IV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the familys watc needs.                            to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Accessthe fanuly Dspwate (needs,f poputation)--40rar, urban,  receivrers in counties and in years when registration of TV sets was
AIccess to Excres Dispsale (peret of popwiaron)toral, whaw,   in effect.
end nural-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) served by   n
xcreta disposal as percettages of their respective populations.    NAewsper Crcualation pej thowandpopadaoni-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by watcr-  piodial publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appcars at least four times a week.
Populton per Physidcaw-Population divided by number of prac-   CuGema Aelao Atendancc per Capia per Year-Based on the
dsing physcians quaified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populton per Nursin Person-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popuaio per Hopil Bed-total, urb   and rural--Population       Total Labor Force (thousands)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban, and rural) dnrided by thir respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housevives.
hospital beds available in public and private general and specialized  students, etc.. co%vring population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. EstabEshments prov-     (percenet--Fienale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not mcluded. Rural hospitals,  force.
however. inciude health and medcal centers not permanently staffed  Agricutue (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-paticnt accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Indsry 1percentj-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Tota number of admissions to or    facturing and clecuicity. water and gas as percentagc of total labor
dischargs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Partiai  Rate (percenr)-ro:4 male, a,dfimak-Participarion
HOUSING                                                        or activity zates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Avrge Sie of Houehl (persons pe heuseholdJ--tral. arban,       as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andrAura-A houshold consists of a group of individuals -ho share  rmpectiveLv; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quartes and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Psns per Roo-emaota, arban, and ruef-        Economic Dependency Rado--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in al urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Percentage of Dwelings with Ekectriceiy--otal, uram, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposabk Incme (both in cash and kind)-
Conventional dweUlings with electicity in living quarters as percen-  Accnming to percentile groups of housebolds ranked by total house-
r   tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A-Owrd schol   to Rae          mse                             The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PrLwary school - total. maLe and fmakGross total. rnale and  levels, and should be intepreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of afl ages at the primary levl as percentages of  Estimted Absolte Pbvety Inome Leve fUSS p  capkaJ-_rhan
rcspective primary school-age populations. Whilc many countries  and rua-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prnmary school age to be 6-11 years, others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
diffnes in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremnts is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given For some countres with universal  Estimaed Relative Poet nome Lerd e   SS per capiea}-arban
education, gross enrollment may exeed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupis are below or above the county's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - ord, mak antdfemak-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmted Popultion Below Absolte Poverty Income Level (per-
mnary insruction; provides geneaL vocationaL or teacher training  cent)--arban and rna- Percet of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupils usuaUy of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are 'absolute poor."
ence coures are generally aecluded.
Vocatioa Enrolimn (percent of secondvy)-Vocational institu-               Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate     Econornic Analysis and Projections Department
indepedently or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



_ 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCr IN 1983184                           (Z. Constant Prices)
-     USS ian.    z          1974/75-1978/79    1978/79-1983184
GDP at Market Prices           6288.0   100.0              3.6                 1.7
Gross Doeatic Investment       870.7    L3.8               0.6                -0.4
Cross National Sawing           224.3     3.6             13.1               -10.0
Current Account Balance       -646.0    10.3               0.7                 4.1
Exports of Goods, UPS          877.0    13.9               0.7                 4.1
Imports of Goods, NmS         1668.0    26.5               0.2                 4.0
OUTPUT 1, LABOR PORC= 2/ AND
PRODUCTVIY IN 1983/U8
Valua Added        Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
U3S mu.   S          Ml..      Z         USS   2 (of average)
Agriculture     1684.4    29.7       4.92     78.0        342       23.1
Industry         931.7    16.5       0.63     10.0       1479      164.7
Services        3051.4    53.8       0.76     12.0       4015      447.1
Total      5667.5   100.0       6.31    100.0        898       100.0
GOVEMO       FI1NCE
Central Goverment - 1983/84
(LSd. Iln.)      z of CDP 'I
Current Recelpts                 1469             14.7
Currant Expenditure              1300             13.0
Current Surplus                   169              1.7
Capital Expenditure.              483              4.8
Unallocated Expenditures  3       366              3.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRlCES                   79180   80181    81/82    82/83    83/84
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                              1047.5  1445.2  1899.9   2605.0  3151.8
Bank Credit to Central Governmnt (net)   719.0   914.5    848.7        677.2   775.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                             814.3  1118.6   1560.9   2229.6  2585.7
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes In:
Consumer Price Indsx 4/                     25.9   24.3      26.8      30.6     28.1
Banu Credit to Central Government            9.0    27.2     -7.2      20.2     14.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and ParastatJs                           24.7    37.4     39.5     42.8      16.0
1J Factor Costs.
2/ Labor force estimates are based on EPD's Social Indicators Data Sheet.
U31 Includes some capital expenditures by other public entities.
4/ Calendar Year.
EA2NE
May 28, 1985



- 29 -
--           SUDA.N - COUNTY DATA                      hnex I
nTADE DALANCE AND CAPITAL nLWS                 Page 6
BALANCE OF PAIMENTS ESTIATES
1960/81   1,11/32   1082/83   1983/34      NERCHADISE EXPORTS (AVrAGE 195112-1983114)
(Kill Du s U4
US$ m.           Z
Cxport. Goods a ars              748       627       753         77                                              -
Imports Goods A MS              1628      2034      1764       1668      Cotton                   196.0         33.5
Resource Cap                  -1060      -1407     -1033      -7?1       Sorshuo                   59.4         10.3
Interest. ILT Debt             -105       -190      -191      -215       Groundauts                26.7          4.6
Other Factor Permente (net)      -1         -5       -20       -10       um Arablc                 51.2           S.6
Prlvate Trarnfer*                305       350       415        360      Saeo                      53.0          9.2
Current salanC                 -881      -1252       829      -64f       Otber                    194.7         33.6
PublLe Grants                    122       174       442       336             Total              579.0        100.0
Direct luvesteat                  35        40        60         70
Public NLT Legem, dlib.         499        685       219       194       UXTERAL DEBT. DECO=5E  31. 1983
Publlc INT Lo m., aort.           64        97        58        16
Total Public Not                413        566       161       171                                           U$ p1.
Net Credit, DW                  290         50       122       -
Capita-l nlows (il. errors                                              Publlc Debt, OD, JLT                  5780.6 1/
and e lslons)               -199       -116      -196       203
hamge In Not Reserves                                                   DEST SERVICe PATIO Fl 1983/B4
C- indlcates icreae)         220       51        220      -141 31                                             2
fublic Debt, mil. guaranteed           26.3
RAE or FEXCHUNAZ                                                        No-Guaranteed Prlvate Debt
Exchange Rate 41
Officlal Rate:   Led 1.00 - us$ 0.40
Y1S$ 1.00 - Led 2.50
Cmmercial Bhnk   lsd 1.00 - USS 0.30
Floating Rate: US$ 1.00 - Led 3.30
IBR/IDA LENDIN. (March 31. 1985) QYillion tSS)
ZBRD     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed          *0.9    645.1
Uldisbursed                         0.0   364.4
Outstandlng ntcl. Undisbursed      40.9  1209. 5
Not available.
1/ Total DOD (including IW, outstanding arrears, and dllltary debt) l., however,
e.ti ted to US#8.1 billlon as of Decenber 31, 1983.
2/ Ext:ange rate refers to May. 1985. For exchange rats
history prior to tbat, refer to table 6.6 of the Statlstical Anex.
3/ Xn 1983/84 the net foreign reserves dituation was axcr emly tight;
the report*d lcrease my have resulted froe computing inaccuracles
in the abort-tern capital flows.                                                             U 2NE
May 21, 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                      Undis-
Credit No.     Year   Borrower Purpose                Bank          IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and nineteen Credits fully disbursed      139.0         320.2
Credit 782     1978   Sudan     Livestock Marketing                  25.0    9.48
Credit 804     1978   Sudan     Mechanized Farming III               16.0    5.06
Credit 834     1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research               15.0    5.14
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan     Third Power                          65.0   20.15
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan      New Halfa Rehabilitation            40.0   23.66
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan      Blue Nile Pump Rehab.               32.0   29.55
Credit 1119 7l 1981   Sudan     White Nile Pump Rehab.               35.0   31.40
Credit 1153 717 1981   Sudan     Second Tech. Assistance              6.0    3.07
Credit 1181 7i1 1981   Sudan    Western Savannah                     13.0    0.67
Credit 1201 7-1 1982   Sudan    Agricultural Services                18.0   14.17
Credit 1233 Ti7 1982   Sudan     Second Port                         25.0    2.86
Credit 1388 7T1 1983   Sudan     Gezira Rehabilitation               80.0   78.95
Credit 1389 Ti7 1983   Sudan     Agric. Rehab. Program II            50.0    0.73
Credit Fo11*7ll 1984   Sudan     Third Education Project             10.0    9.50
Credit 1451 7Ti 1984   Sudan     Third Education Project              5.4    3.73
Credit 1450 71 1984   Sudan      Third Highvay Pro-act               16.0   16.00
Credit 1506 T7  1984   Sudan     Sugar Rebab. Project                60.0   60.00
Credit 1513 71 1984   Sudan      Petro'eum T.A. Project              12.0    8.78
Credit 1525 7i 1984   Sudan      Stock Route Project                  5.5    5.50
Credit 1614 71- 1985   Sudan     Drought Recovery                    20.0   20.00
Credit 1624 71 1985   Sudan  ** Power Rehabilitation Prog.           30.0   30.00
T-otal                                      139.0         899.1  378.40
of which repaid               -           103.2          15.3
Total now outstanding                        35.8         883.8
Amount sold                    5.8                 8.4
of which repaid              5.8             -   8.4      -
Total held by Bank & IDA                     35.8         883.8                  I
Total undisbursed                             Nil         378.4  378.40
/1 Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1118-SU and above) are shown in US$
equivalents, based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of
negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 16 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.4 million, SDR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
million, SDR 15.5 million, SDR 56.4 million, SDR 11.6 million,SDR 20.2
million and SDR 30.3 respectively.)
N Not yet effective.
*11 Special Fund Credit



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                              (Amount in US$ million)
Year          Obligor                                Loan   Equity Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972           Textiles                              1.9    0.3      2.2
1976           Cotton Textile Mills                    8.7    1.3    10.0
1978           Seleit Food Production Ltd.            11.1    1.1    12.2
1978           Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.         6.7    1.4      8.1
1980           Sudan Cement Company                     -      0.2     0.2
1982           White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.            -      0.3     0.3
Total gross commitments                28.4    4.6    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                  6.9    0.6     7.5
Total commitments now held by IFC      21.5    4.0    25.5
Total undisbursed by IPC                1.9    0.2     2.1
r



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  18 months
(b)  Project prepared by           : Government
(c)  Identification mission        : October 1984
(d)  Appraisal mission             : April 1985
(e)  Negotiations                  : October 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
A PPF of US$700,000 was approved to finance project start-up
activities (para. 61).
Section III - Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to IFAD loan agreement
including appoinment of the Association as cooperating institution to
administer the loan (para. 63).
Cb) The execution of the ODA grant agreement on behalf of the Government
and ODA and the fulfillment of other conditions precedent to the ODA
grant agreement (para. 63 ).
(c) The opening by the Government of the Special Account (para. 78).
Other Conditions:
(a) The Government would make proposals to implement land tenure in South
Darfur to be discussed with the Association and IFAD  not later than
June 30, 1987 and consult WSDC before taking any major land use
decisions concerning South Darfur (para. 42).
(b) The Government would carry out a WSDC Board membership review not
later than December 31, 1986 and would consult with the Association
and IFAD concerning project beneficiary representation before making
changes to the composition of the Board (para. 65).



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c) A second Deputy Director General of WSDC to head the Agricultural
Development Division would be appointed not later than June 30, 1987
(para. 67).
(d) A study would be undertaken by WSDC not later than June 30, 1987 to
determine how best to maintain the improvement to water supply
services in South Darfur (para. 70).
(e) The Government would prepare a position paper on WSDC's future post
project to be discussed with IDA/IFAD not later than June 30, 1987
(para. 72).
(f) WSDC would carry out a project mid-term review together with donor
representatives not later than December 31, 1988 (para. 73 ).
(g)  WSDC would ensure that all vehicles procured will be diesel powered,
unless otherwise agreed by IDA on an exceptional basis (para. 74).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II
Procurement Program
(in US$ million)
Not
ICB     LIT    Other a/   Applicable b/   Total
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed
by IDA/IFAD
Civil Works
Wateryards                              2.2                          2.2
Other Civil Works      2.7              0.2            0.7           3.6
(2.7)                          (0.3)         (3.0)
Vehicles                  0.3             3.4                          3.7
(0.3)                                        (0.3)
Machinery & Equipment             4.0     6.2            0.1          10.3
(4.0)                                (4.0)
Technical Assistance                      5.0            0.3           5.3
(4.0)         (0.2)          (4.2)
Training                                                 2.0           2.0
(2.0)         (2.0)
Farm Inputs                       0.1     1.1-                         1.2
(0.1)                                (0.1)
Drugs                             1.3                                  1.3
(1.2)                                (1.2)
Aircraft Operating                        1.8            0.3           2.1
Costs
(1.8)         (0.3)          (2.1)
Operating Expenses                        7.3            4.8          12.1
(3.6)                        (3.6)
Total                     3.0     5.4    27.2            8.2          43.8
(3.0)   (5.3)   (9.4)          (2.8)        (20.5)
a/   Includes items funded by ODA which will be purchased in accordance
with their guidelines.
b/   Includes refinancing of PPF and direct placement.



AW n                                                                           S U D A N
*J-I    },   t.WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT PHASE 11
4o4 )   )AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
-    a. I                                       -    UAN  --at R_w .c.
ms. , . s    i  /owm Ies'                      0    . a   *.   so
_Jy- cR  {r ,*A wSac  mN                          O1a                               2ss Cn"n
CW 'O O   E MWA I SS Oat .eeaafl  1OSa a
Zlffv\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w-A' E&W NEYtSlONno eEne
wsoc F4~._  * zooDC apmI ik ....... o6m.w cea o,
r ws.., eas, :nR owf- ---- U                            0sWAa6
\  AMAS W                                   -  moa BOWJDn 
Em"SON F(o V-W~~~~~~SNUIIINA
f   r~~~~~  s~~       - PONI                  SEA
U. :               ',I                                                                                      -
is   \   |           }  ~~~~~~~~ t--                           \, ~~~~~ NORTHERtN
|  "s   t    t   .  wQ   z 5    ( ,o,    >                       \   ~~~~~~KOJDFAN
wr                                                                                                                        -- _E4
A      *                                             1at  S  t
------ 17-                   ....  <7U ...
WSTE                                                                         EASTERN  I
-SOUTHERN DiSu"t                                                                                         10.  ~t-\ ;I
/Z I,VE~~~~~~~~~SAfiN S EL GH<AZ AL\)S,V_
CENTRAl S                                         __%
REPUBIBtC    fJ                                   ~                  -    
)      {                                     j       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fAStEFRt MWI ElHZA
¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                               IL      If   7.  
.   t__w1jrsEr                                                                                            ______ _~~~~~wawit






