Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5814-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II
November 12, 1985
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance a!
their official duties. Itscoontents may not othemrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Sudanese Pound (LSd)
US$1.00       LSd 2.5 (official rate)
US$1.00   =   LSd 3.3 (free commercial
bank note)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit        English Unit               Sudanese Unit
I hectare (ha)  =  2.47 acres (ac)         =  2.38 feddans (fd)
Metric Unit        English Unit            =  U.S. Unit
I liter         =  0.22 imperial gallons  =  0.26 U.S. gallons
I metric ton    =  2,202.6 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AED     -   Agricultural Extension Department - South Darfur
IDA     -   International Development Association
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
LMHC    -   Livestock and t4eat Marketing Corporation
MOANR   -   Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources, Darfur
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration of the U.K.
RG      -   Regional Government, Darfur
RPA     -   Range and Pasture Administration, South Darfur
VSA     -   Veterinary Services Administration, South Darfur
WSARP   -   Western Savannah Agricultural Research Project
WSDC    -   Western Savannah Deve;opment Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
The Islamic Calendar Year



- i -              FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II (WSP-II)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Democratic Republic bf Sudan
Amount:          IDA Credit SDR 10.2 million (US$10.6 million equivalentl
Terms:           Standard
Cofinancing:     IFAD Loan SDR 9.45 million (US$9.9 million equivalent)
ODA Grant Pounds Sterling 7.7 million (US$10.7 million
equivalent)
Beneficiaries:   Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) and
Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
Project Description:
The main objectives of the project are to: (a) increase small farmer incomes
through higher production of grain and pulses by making available farm inputs
and water supplies; (b) extend new technology either identified under WSP-I or
to be developed under WSP-II; (c) increase output from livestock by creating
an effective veterinary service; (d) conserve range and develop pasture;
(e) adapt farming systems to arrest the ongoing degradation of soil and range;
and (f) introduce land tenuie.
Benefits:
The main benefits would be: (a) increases in the production of millet,
sorghum and groundnuts; (b) prevention of further soil deterioration in
project-controlled or influenced areas; (c) improvement of livestock disease
security and productivity; (d) increase in human water availability and
reliability; and (e) establishment of beneficiary control and payment for
agricultural services in the project area.
Risks:
Sudan's tenuous overall economic situation may give rise to shortages of
inputs and weak support from GOS cooperating agencies. The capacitv and
degree of cooperation, which WSP-I has stimulated In regional and local
authorities, could prove transient. The aain technical risk is using untried
range seeding technology, but that component is not critical for project
success. The project includes measures to minimize these risks, a strong
institutions training component, imported inputs and privatization of
services.
This dounent has a restricted distbution and may be used by redpients only in t prformance orIf
their ofiia duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Dank authorzation.



- li -
Project Components:                              US $ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
Agricultural Development          2.8            7.5            10.3
Engineering Services             2.4             7.3             9.7
Project Administration           2.3             4.3             6.6
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.1             0.7             0.8
WSARP Station Operations          1.6            2.6             4.2
Physical Contingencies           0.9             1.6             2.5
Price Contingencies              4.7             5.0             9.7
14.8 1/        29.0            43.8 1
Financing Plan:                                  US $ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
IDA Credit                       1.1             9.5            10.6
IFAD Loan                        1.1             8.8             9.9
ODA Grant                       -               10.7            10.7
Government of Sudan             12.6 I/         -               12.6 I/
14.8           29.0            43.8
Estimated Disbursements:                       US $ Million
FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91
IDA/IFAD:  Annual         0.7     5.0      4.4     4.2      3.5     2.7
Cumulative    0.7      5.7    10.1    14.3    17.8    20.5
Estimated Rate of Return on the project investment is 35X.
Staff Appraisal Report:
Map:- IBRD 18991
IBRD 18992
IBRD 19119
1/   Includes duties and taxes equivalent to US$1.1 million and inputs for
which a cost of US$4.5 million will eventually be recovered.



- iii -
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PHASE II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND        I...........................................   1
A.  The Agricultural Sector          .............................  1
B.  Experience with Past Lending       ........................  3
C.  Project Formulation ..... *............................      4
Project Origins ..................................       4
Performance under WSP-I ........                         5
II.   THE PROJECT AREA *...........                                    I
A.  Location and Population  Se       .........................  7
B.  Water Resources, Soils and Vegetation ...............        7
C.  Infrastructure ..*..........         ......................  8
D.  Land Rights, Use and Production          .....................  8
III.   THE PROJECT         ............................................    13
A.  Project Objectives ....o.............................    13
B.  Project Description ....*        ...........................    13
C.  Project Components ..................................    15
The Agricultural Development Division................    15
The Engineering Services Division .....      ..............   24
The Administration & Financial Services Division .....    26
The Monitoring & Evaluation Division.................    27
Western Sudan Agricultural Research Stations ........    28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprised of
Messrs. H.J.S. Marples, G. Mukami, A. Pritchard (IBRD); Mesdames I. Foik
(IBRD Khartoum) and C. Cornelius (Consultant); and Messrs. B. Aklilu (IFAD)
and P. Davitt (IFAD Consultant), who visited the project area in April
1985.



- iv -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
D.  Project Costs            ................... .............    29
Financing  .g...... ....................                   30
Procurement ...............  ............    31
Disbursement            ..................... .......      34
E.  Accounts, Audit and Government Funding    ..............   34
F.  Environmental Impact   ................................    36
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............g...g..g6gegggggggeg       37
A.  Western Savannah Development Corporation gggggggggggg    37
B.  Research Stations at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowazat ..    44
C.  Mid-Term Review ggggggggggggggg.geggggggsgggg........      45
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, PRICES AND RECOVERY
OF PROJECT COSTS ggggeegggggegggggggg.....................     46
A.  Production and Yields  .....  egggggggg 3gggggggg g g g g g g    46
B.  Markets and Prices ggggggggggggggggeggggggggggggggggg    48
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ggg ggg gg.........ggggoes    51
A. Farmer's Benefits           ...................................    51
B.  Economic Benefits and Justification  ggggggg....... gggg   52
C.  Economic Analysis eggggge*gggggggggggggeggggggggggggg    53
D.  Risks g.gggggggggggggg.ggggggggeggeggg..e.g.g..ggg..gg.    54
E.  Switching Values and Sensitivity Analysis ...........    54
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS gggggggggggggggggggggggggggeggeeggggggggg    55
List of Text Tables
Table 1:   Proportions of Crops Planted in the Project Area ....       9
2:   Agricultural Development -
Costs Including Contingencies         ....................    15
3:   Rate of Establishment of Improved Pastures                 19.........    1
4:   Rate of Indu. :on of Settlements into the
Extension i -ogram ...22 ee....... g    .........        22
5: Engineering Services -
Costs Including Contingencies geggeggggggggggeggggg    25
6:   Project Administration -
Costs Including Contingencies         .....................    26
7:   Monitoring and Evaluation Costs ggggggggggggggggggggg    27
8:   Cost of Research Station Operation in Darfur    ........   28
9:   Project Cost Summary ...egggggggggggggggg...........g         29
10:   Financing of Project Costs        ..........................  30



-v -
List of Text Tables (continued)
Page No.
11:   Financing by Category of Goods and Services .........   31
12:   Procurement Method ....*****,*******************....     32
13:   Schedule of Disbursements by Categories     .............   35
14:  Area, Yield and Production         ..........................   47
15:   Comparison of Farm Income ...........................    51
ANNEXES
1    Project Related Institutions                                   57
2    Terms of Reference for Internationally
Recruited Resident Staff                                    62
3     Technical Assistance in Man Years                             72
4    Training Schedule ........                                     73
5    Table 1:  Summary Accounts by Year      ......................    74
Table 2:  Project Components by Year                          75
Table 3:  Project Cost Sunmmry ...........................    76
Table 4: Estimated Annual Inflation Rates                     77
6     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                           78
7    Farmgate Parity Prices Used in the Economic Analysis .....    79
8     Tabl! 1:  Water Production and Fuel Requirement Schedule .   80
Table 2:  Water Charge Analysis        ..........................   81
Table 3:  Household Water Consumption and Water Cost
for Comparison to Total Net Income     .............   82
9     Table 1:  Private Veterinary Services -
Schedule of Treatments     .......................    83
Table 2:  Veterinary Service - Treatment Charge Analysis .   84
10   On-Farm Labor Creation    .........* *,.................    85
11   Table 1:  Farm Budget:  Qoz Land System
Basic System Without Project       .................   86
Table 2: Farm Budget:  Qoz Land System With Project -
Phosphorous, Seed Dressing and Improved Seed   .  87
Table 3: Qoz Land System - With and Without Project
(Animal Drawn Equipment Only) -
Labor Requirement by Crop and Month    ..........   88
Table 4: Farm Budget: Qoz Land System With Project -
Animal Drawn Equipment Only ...... .............  89
Table 5: Farm Budget:  Qoz Land System with Project -
Phosphorous, Seed Dressing, Improved Seed
and Animal Traction *........... .............    90
12   Table 1:  Unit Activity Budget With Project -
Naga'a Cultivation ............................... 91
Table 2:  Rate of Adaption of Extension Messages    .........   92
Table 3:  Seed Production Scheme -
Project Settlements/Wateryards ..*............    93
Table 4:  Cropped Area Under Wateryard Program      ...........   94
Table 5:  Project Incremental Crop Production ......0......   95
13   Table 1:  Benefits of Veterinary Services
Prograra for One Nomadic Herd     .................   96
Table 2: Program - Livestock Benefits ...................    97
14    Incremental Goiernment Cash Flow                              98
15   Economic Analysis ..........      ............ ..-.- ... .     99



- vi -
List of Text Tables (continued)
Page No.
APPENDIX
1    Implementation Schedule .................................   100
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ........................  101
MAPS
IBRD 18991: Agricultural Development
IBRD 18992: Wateryard and Hafir Location
IBRD 19119: Environmental Context of Development



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      The agricultural sector which accounts for about 40 percent of
Sudan's Gross Domestic Product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force and supplies
inputs for a substantial proportion of industrial activity. The
agricultural sector is characterized by its duality with some 1.6 million
hectares (ha) of modern capital-intensive irrigation and 2.2 million ha of
large-scale rainfed mechanized activities co-existing with some 4.3 million
ha of traditional rainfed subsistence agriculture and a ubiquitous
traditional livestock subsector. The major irrigated crops are cotton
(accounting for about 50% of Sudan's total exports), groundnuts, sorghum
and wheat; the productivity of these crops registered a steep decline
during the second half of the seventies. The crops grown in the rainfed
areas are sorghum, millet, sesame, groundnuts and short staple cotton.
Like the irrigated subsector, the mechanized farming subsector has suffered
a marked decline in productivity within the last decade. During the same
period the traditional sector expanded in area with little improvement in
productivity.
1.02      The principal reasons for the deterioration in Sudants
agricultural performance during the second half of the MOiO's and early
1980's include low prices to producers for export crops, inadequate foreign
exchange allocated for imported agricultural inputs, the failure of
cultural techniques in rainfed mechanized schemes, and a series of years
with below normal rainfall. Steep increases in the prices of imports,
deterioration in export performance, a sharp deterioration in the balance
of payments situation and shortages of domestic budgetary resources in
certain areas became mutually reinforcing.
1.03      As part of an economic recovery program, Government of Sudan
(GOS) reordered investment priorities and started to operate within the
framework of a rolling Three-Year Public Investment P-ogram. This program
concentrates on the completion of ongoing projects and investments which
will contribute most quickly to the growth of exports and domestic
revenues. New projects are limited to those that rehabilitate existing
production schemes and help alleviate marketing bottlenecks. This program
has yielded excellent results in the irrigated schemes. Following heavy
investment by GOS in rehabilitation of irrigation capacity (para. 1.08),
yields for cotton, groundnuts and sorghum have increased dramatically since
1980/81. Livestock exports, mainly sheep to Saudi Arabia, have been
stimulated by GOS progressively lowering export taxes and improving
services to exporters over the last five years. Export volumes have
increased threefold since 1981 and now include about 600,000 sheep per
annum.
1.04      Bank reports on the Sudanese economy show that while Sudan still
has rainfed agricultural resources whose potential for exploitation may be
unparalleled among developing countries today, declining rainfall, and



- 2-
shortages of imported crop production and marketing needs, had during the
decade prior to 1982/83 brought about declines of 30, 39, 40, 42 and 60 per
cent respectively in production of groundnuts, sorghum, sesame, gum arabic
and millet. 1/ Apart from cotton, which is almost all grown under
irrigation, These crops account for most of the country's total
production. During the last two years these problems, most particularly
further declining rainfall, have been accentuated. There is now a general
awareness of declining land fertility and of the problem of increasing
population pressure on land in much of the better-watered rainfed area as
the result of migration from locations affected by desertification. These
sectoral constraints have been exacerbated in Kordofan and recently to some
extent in Darfur by the lack of stability in land tenure for small farmers
or communities and by the allocation of large tracts of land (leasehold)
for mechanized farming. Leases contain obligations that leaseholders
practice good husbandry, but these are neither followed nor enforced.
1.05      The modern, capital-intensive irrigation and rainfed mechanized
farming activities lie mostly astride and adjacent to the Nile corridor,
far to the east of the proposed project area (para. 2.01). In the past,
these activities have received the majority of GOS budgetary allocations.
As a result the rainfed agriculture subsector, particularly traditional
rainfed agriculture, has been starved of investment. Much of the potential
for increased production lies within the Western Savannah which is located
between latitudes 100 and 14°, and extends from the Nile corridor west to
the Chad border. In this area the virtual absence of all-weather roads, an
unreliable railway system and paucity of other infrastructure is a direct
reflection of lo-w GOS budgetary allocations in the past. Social services
are limited to major centers of population and difficult to sustain. GOS
staff are reluctant to accept postings to these areas, and many positions
remain vacant for long periods of time. In addition, the semi-arid climate
of the Western Savannah makes sedentary farming and herding difficult,
particularly in the absence of assured year-round sources of water. The
major form of land use which has evolved is shifting cultivation of millet
and sorghum for subsistence, and groundnuts for cash.
1.06      With IDA support under a Special Project Preparation Facility,
GOS set up four Task Forces during 1985 to define the constraints to
increasing agricultural production in Sudan and to propose ways in which
these constraints can be overcome. The Task Forces are working on (a)
Agricultural Technology, (b) Land Tenure, (c) Institutions, Credit and
Finance, and (d) Agricultural Prices and Marketing.  By November 1985 the
Task Forces are expected to report their findings which would lead to a
dialogue between GOS and IDA (and perhaps other donors) to agree upon
policy adjustments and investment priorities in the sector. The results of
the work of the.e Task Forces would ultimately have a bearing on
agricultural production in the proposed project area in South Darfur.
1/   "Investing for Economic Stabilization and Structural Change' of
February 11, 1982 (Report no. 3551a-SU) and 'Pricing Policies and
Structural Balances" of November 10, 1983 (Report no. 4528a-SU).



- 3 -
The output from those working on Land Tenure and Institutions, Credit and
Finance would be of particular concern to the implementation of the project
(paras. 3.10 and 4.17).
1.07      In Western Sudan by the mid-1960's, a substantial water drilling
program provided a network of assured water supplies, mainly on the sandy
(Qoz) soil systems. New settlers entered the area, and varying numbers of
transhumant cultivators and nomadic herders' families, or parts thereof,
formed sedentary farming communities. Most acquired or continued to keep
varying and at times large numbers of livestock. These animals are tended
under a variety of arrangements by hired herders or family members or
relatives, some of whom have chosen to remain nomadic or cranshumant, while
others prefer a sedentary life tending livestock in the vicinity of a
village. As a result, the distinction between livestock owners and crop
cultivators is not clear cut.
B. Experience with Past Lending
1.08      Agricultural credits make up about half of total Bank lending to
Sudan. During the last decade, eight irrigation projects, three rainfed
mechanized farming projects, five smallholder development projects, an
agricultural research project, two livestock marketing projects, and two
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credits have made up IDA commitments of
about US$0.5 billion. Three quarters of these funds have been devoted to
irrigation projects which aim to restore the country's capacity to produce
cotton (cotton production had fallen from 1.4 million bales in 1970/71 to
less than G.6 million bales in 1980/81). These investments and the
improvements in producer incentives and institutional reforms with which
they were associated, have reversed the decline, and during the last three
years yields and total production have recovered to the 1970 levels.
Mechanized farming, with assistanze from three IDA credits, produces about
70% of Sudan's sorghum and 40% of its sesame. The Livestock Marketing
Project has helped to boost the export of sheep threefold over the last
five years, making livestock the second largest net earner of foreign
exchange.
1.09      The Sahelian belt across Africa which includes the project area
in Darfur has received little attention from researchers prior to the
last decade, and the technical or sociological knowledge of ways to
increase agricultural proouction or conserve agricultural land are
minimalS It was againstnthat background that GOS put into place the
Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) which became effective
in 1980, and the Western Savannah Project - Phase I (WSP-I) effective
1981. WSARP addresses the needs for a continuing development of improved
agricultural technology to enhance production and land conservation within
the farming systems employed throughout Kordofan and Darfur, and WSP-I has
implemented a pilot program to rationalize land use by structured water
development and land allocation for smallholders, and the application of
those elementary advances in technology generated by the project. WSARP
began field work at Kadugli in southern Kordofan in 1982 and at El Obeid in
northern Kordofan in 1984.  Rese;-ch under that project is scheduled to
begin later this year in Darfur on completion of the stations at El Fasher



- 4 -
and Ghazala Gowazat. The proposed project (Western Savannah Phase II) and
the work of WSARP at Ghazala Gowazat will be compler- ntary, and will
jointly be the engine for the most comprehensive effort yet made in the
Sahelian zone to reverse erosion and declining crop yields. The urgency of
this work in the project area is brought sharply into focus by the
estimates of population increase by migration of 20-30X, including 100,000
refugees since the drought began, and the population census of 1983 which
showed the province then held 1.2 million people. Scientists working in
WSARP believe southern Darfur has the greatest potential for increased
production of any rainfed area in Sudan, in part because the province has a
cattle population of 3 million of which 2 million are in the project area.
C. Project Formulation
Project Origins
1.1C      The proposed project has its origins in WSP-I (Credit 1181-SU)
which emerged from the IDA/Saudi Fund-supported Savannah Development
Project (Credit 718-SU and Loan 4/41, respectively). The delays in
implementing that project led to an estimated doubling of the appraised
costs of US$38.2 million for the predecessor project. WSP-I was also based
on the ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported South Darfur Rural Development Project
which was approved earlier and faced similar implementation problems. GOS
suggested that the two projects be cancelled and replaced by a new project
adjusted to the total resources available. Agreements in principle on the
scope, content and funding were reached in November 1980. WSP-I was
prepared and appraised in 1981 and declared effective on July 1, 1982.
1.11      WSP-I was established as a pilot operation with limited scope and
objectives to help lay the foundation for a long-term strategy for.
development of the Western Savannah. It aimed to: (a) test strategies for
improving livestock and range production; (b) identify and test agronomic
packages both for area and yield increase, and for soil and fertility
conservation; (c) test approaches to settlement with land leasehold titles;
and (d) pr-vide support for wateryard rehabilitation and veterinary
services.
1.12      During WSP-I and earlier, the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC) collected data by surveys of the sedentary, transhumant
and nomad agricultural and pastoral production, and land use, in the
project area. Much of this information has been analyzed and presented in
survev reports which are available in the project file. The preparation of
others is ongoing and will be completed during the second half of CY 85.
Also on the project file are the results of experiments made on WSDC's
Development Centers and more recently on farmers' fields in the project
area. WSDC now has the implementational capacity and at least some of the
technological packages needed to bring about sustainable increased
agricultural production by rural households in South Darfur. In addition
and in so doing, the project would: arrest the ongoing degradation of the
natural resources involved; at least sustain the current availability of
food per person in the expanding rural population which the area must
support; and introduce permanent systems of farming, grazing management and



- 5 -
land tenure. It would also increase exports, directly through increased
production of live animals and groundnuts, and indirectly through the
increased production of grain staples.
Performance under WSP-I
1.13      WSDC, which is responsible for project management, has a Board of
Directors appointed by Presidential decree, and a Director General
appointed by the President on the advice of the Minister of Agriculture
(para. 4.03-4.06). Sudanese management of WSDC has been able from its
inception in 1978. Technical Assistance (TA) provided under WSP-I has been
conscientious and dedicated. WSDC's head office is located in Nyala, with
a liaison office in Khartoum and a one-maa office in Port Sudan.
1.14      Since July 1982 when WSP-I became effective, WSDC has made
significant progress in relation to many of the project components. It has
contlinued the program of adaptive research begun pre-project, established
four controlled settlements for 1,500 settler families with secure tenure,
and successfully pioneered the creation of registered land enclosures
(para. 2.05) to provide grazing in the dry season to a .illage group of
sedentary livestock owners. Contact has been made with a group of nomads,
and a program of rotational deferred wet season grazing is underway. A
mechanized cultivation technique has been developed for the previously
unused but fertile alluvial (Naga'a) soils which cover 30Z of South
Darfur. WSDC worked closely with the National Water Corporation (NWC)
throughout WSP-I to rehabilitate 150 wateryards. The Veterinary Services
Administration (VSA) was assisted to control a series of rinderpest
outbreaks and will benefit from a supply of remote area buildings, vehicles
and equipment. During the rinderpest outbreak, WSDC supplied materials for
vaccine production to the Central Veterinary Laboratory (CVL). A number of
small but critical Improvements were made to roads and tracks in the
project area.
1.15      Progress in crop production in WSP-I based on pre-project work at
WSDC's three Development Centers was initially limited because of the lack
of contact between these centers and farmers in the areas they serve.
Similarly, early activities did not focus sufficieatly on the need to
identify permanent farming systems for their locations. From 1983
following the first project cropping season, the focus of technical effort
was shifted more towards identifying sustaining farming systems and
conducting trials on farmers' crops, and this strategy has quickly produced
positive results. For example, the positive effect on millet yields of
application of phosphatic fertilizer was known pre-project, but phosphate
stimulates the parasitic weed striga, and it was therefore not used.
Control of striga has now been achieved by rotating millet with pulses.
Short-term agronomy consultancies early in the project period did not
adequately substitute for a resident agronomist, but the appointment of an
internationally-recruited agronomist in mid-1984 has assisted WSDC in these
areas.



-6-
1.16      During the early part of WSP-I, the Regional Government (RG) was
being formed, and some areas of friction between RG and WSDC became
evident. However, the institutions have matured, and a joint working group
brought Central Government, RG and WSDC together to produce the WSP-I
Project Evaluation Conmittee Report (August 1984). A clear understanding
of, and agreement upon, each of these parties' respective roles was
established and a firm basis for future activities created. While the
responsibilities vested in the RG were reduced in April 1985, the
experience gained by WSDC in liaising between centers of authority and
action will not be lost, and will help the corporation to work closely with
whatever chain of command within the Government structure is established in
Darfur.
1.17      Under WSP-I, a cost recovery program for water was initiated
(para. 4.11). When first approached, RG did not agree to endorse new
higher water charges proposed by hWC, but GOS persuaded them to do so. The
spontaneous, positive respanse of wateryard users to higher charges coupled
with better water availability clearly demonstrated the willingness of the
rural population to pay more for an assured supply. A revolving fund for
veterinary drugs under which users pay costs plus a service fee was started
under WSP-I and has been similarly well-received by livestock owners.
Likewise, the use of seed treatment has spread beyond the areas in which it
was originally introduced by the Agricultural Extension Department (AED),
simply because it was demonstrably beneficial, the farmers were prepared to
pay, and private enterprise (the Suk) was prepared to deliver the services.
1.18      An independent consultant's evaluation of WSP-I was conducted in
April/May 1984. This was reviewed by a GOS Project Evaluation Committee in
July/August 1984. Both reports concluded that the objectives of WSP-I had
been achieved to a reasonable level, WSDC had proven its management
capabilities and the potential for further advancement under a Phase II
project had been demonstrated. The consultant's report endorsed WSDC's
view that the main requirements of the target population are water, food
grain and livestock production services, and permanent farming systems. It
listed the policies and strategies needed to meet these requiremeats and
identified the components of the proposed WSP-II project and the issues
which would need to be addresped and resolved during project preparation.
The GOS evaluation found the consultant's report generally acceptable.
1.19      IDA carried out a review mission in October 1984 which confirmed
the findings of the Government and consultants' evaluations of WSP-I, and
concurred with their views that the main components of the proposed WSP-II
should be settlements, wateryard rehabilitation, production services and
adaptive research. The IDA mission also agreed with the inclusion of new
components in agro-forestry and agricultural extension. Given the above
background, the general success of WSP-I, WSDC's now proven implementation
capacity, and completion of WSP-I with near total disbursement by the
original closing date of June 30, 1985, GOS approached the World Bank, IFAD
and ODA for assistance in funding WSP-II to become effective early in
1986. At the request of GOS, IDA has put in place a Project Preparation
Facility of USS0.7 million from July 1985.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Population
2.01      The project area comprises four of the six administrative
districts of the province of South Darfur: Central, Eastern, Southern and
Southwestern. It extends from about 230 15' to 27° 45' longitude, and from
90 30' to 130 0' latitude, and covers a total area of about 135,000 km2.
WSP-I boundaries did not correspond with District boundaries. This would
be remedied in WSP-II (map showing Agricultural Development). The human
population of the project area is estimated at about 1.18 million (1983
census provisional) including about 200,000 nomads. The nomads, and some
members of sedentary communities, seasonally move southward with livestock
over the Bahr El Arab river into Bahr El Ghazal province in search of
pasture and water. They return north with the onset of the wet season,
usually moving through the project area and into North Darfur for 3-4
months of wet season grazing. Population growth in the project area has
been rapid in recent years, perhaps even 4-5% per annum, as a result of
both natural increase and inward migration mainly from North Darfur and
Chad. This migration has resulted from a long period of drought in the
northern areas.
B. Water Resources, Soils and Vegetation
2.02      Rainfall varies between 300 mm in the north and 800 mm in the
south, with an average in the main areas of cultivation of 500-600 mm per
annum (see map). These are long-term averages (over 30 years). In the
recent past, rainfall has been declining both in the project area and
further to the north. During 1984, drought conditions prevailed .
Principal sources of water in the rural areas are seasonal streams and
natural lakes and ponds supplemented by shallow wells. Since 1947, GOS has
constructed a network of deep boreholes equipped with pumps, diesel
engines, and elevated water tanks which feed sales points from taps and
troughs in enclosures known as wateryards. There are 328 boreholes in 233
wateryards in the project area. Under WSP-I, 150 of these wateryards have
been rehabilitated. A system of regular wateryard maintenance will be
installed for all these wateryards under the proposed project. Soils in
South Darfur can be related to three major contrasting land systems: the
Baggara and Regiba Alluvium (silt and clay soils), the Habbaniya, Dango,
Ma'aliya and Rizequat Qoz (sandy soils), and the Basement (quartzitic sandy
and skeletal soils).
2.03      Darfur Region lies within the two climatic zones of semi-desert
and low rainfall woodland savannah. The semi-desert of Northern Darfur,
with a rainfall of 75-300 mm, has some widely scattered trees, and browse
is an important constituent of the diet for camels and goats. Under high
grazing pressure, the spread of the desert southward has seen the gradual
replacement of the trees Dalbergia nelanoxylon, Acacia senegal (gum
arabic), Leptadenia pyrotechnica and Commiphora africana by shrubs, such as
Boscia senegalensis, Calotropus procera and, further north, Acacia nubica.



Grasses are annuals, Panicum turgidum, Cymbopogon proximis and Aristida
plumosa being common. The very palatable Blepharis species have mainly
disappeared. Vegetation in the low rainfall woodland savannah of Southern
Darfur varies to some extent depending on soils, but in recent years has
assumed characteristics and species previously found only in the
semi-desert further north.  The Qoz soils of Kordofan and Southern Darfur
carry much of the Acacia senegal from which gum arabic is collected and-
exported with a current annual value of about US$60 million. Grasses
dominating these soils are Aristida pallida, Eragostis tremula and Cenchrus
biflorus.  On dry soils, Acacia mellifera and Balanites aegptiaca are in
association with the annual grasses Cymbopogon cervenus, Brachiaria
obtusflora and Sorghum purpireo-sericium. Acacia seyel is another
gum-producing tree found on the clays in the south.  Grasses growing on Qoz
soils are deficient in minerals, but some much-favored grazing is found
where the Qoz soils meet the clays. Grasses found in these areas include
Sporobolus marginatus, Digitaria, Brachiaria and Chloris species. During
the 1950s in the alluvial areas in the south, GOS constructed some 45
excavated earth tanks (hafirs) for seasonal water storage; WSP-I will
rehabilitate 6 hafirs during 1984/85; the remainder have been reduced over
time to shallow silt-filled depressions. Recent bilateral assistance for
water supplies includes well-equipped workshops from Yugoslavia, 17
elevated tanks from Japan, and 40 village hand pump systems from the German
Democratic Republic.
C. Infrastructure
2.04      Apart from the urban center of Nyala with a population of
115,000, which is partially serviced by reticulated electricity and water,
an airport, a rail terminal, radio station and some communications, there
is a paucity of infrastructure. A sealed road runs from the railhead at
Nyala to Zalingei, and a mechanically constructed gravel road from Nyala to
El Fasher. All other routes are limited to tracks. Those which cross
wadis or alluvial soils are often impassable in the wet season, whilst
those on the sand become very difficult to negotiate in the dry season.
Public communication facilities are almost non-existent, and the WSP-I
radio telephone system is utilized by a wide range of regional and national
authorities.
D. Land Rights, Use and Production
2.05      All land in the project area, except urban sites, is Government
owned. Customary rights of access and land use have evolved over time and
are associated with specific local communities. The customary laws
governing land tenure vary and distinctions are made between rights to
cultivate, graze and the right of passage. Active cultivation establishes
usufruct rights, which may be extended to cover limited fallow periods in
some circumstances. Enclosures to create exclusive grazing rights do occur
and the concept has been supported by WSP-I. As the majority of the
cropping is on a shifting cultivation basis, there has been no spontaneous
trend towards any permanent land tenure system.



- 9 -
2.06      Under che pilot settlement program of WSP-I, about 1,500 families
were allocated individual land holdings with 20-year renewable leases.
Applicants for those leases greatly exceeded the holdings available, which
showed the high value the people of the region put on land and the project
services offered. GOS policy for agriculture in South Darfur includes the
development of a land tenure system. The WSP-I and the proposed project
settlements would provide a means by which several patterns of land tenure
could be assessed and adjusted before being extended to other areas. The
opportunity to open new settlements subsequently would be limited by
availability of suitable land with adequate water. The potential area in
appropriate block sizes is probably limited to about 0.5 million ha, but
land use planning in WSDC has not yet completed mapping of these
locations. There is a danger that significant parcels of land could be
allocated to large commercial farmers for mechanized farming operations
similar to what has occurred in eastern Kordofan. For that reason, it is
urgent that a smallholder system of land tenure is demonstrated to have
viable productivity at attainable cost.
2.07      In all the land systems in the project area with predominantly
sandy top soils, small farmers hand cultivate millet, sorghum, sesame,
groundnut, okra, roselle and watermelons. An average family of about 7
persons cultivates about 6 ha annually, the only cash input being for seed
dressing and hand tools. Yields are low, millet being 350-400 kg/ha,
sorghum 540-580 kg/ha, and groundnuts 650-720 kg/ha. Annual production
from the traditional sector in the project area would amount to about
200,000 tons of millet, 75,000 tons of sorghum and 150,000 tons of
groundnuts.
Table I
Proportions of Crops Planted in the Project Area
(s Crop area)
Gr. Nuts   Water
Soil Type       Millet   Sorghum   Gr. Nuts      Mix       Melon   Roselle
Qoz Ma'aliya      57         3         23          12        4        -
Qoz Habbaniya     77         3         19           -        -        -
Qoz Dango         67         3         28          -         -        -
Alluvium East     35        24         32           7        -        -
Alluvium West     36        29         12          -         -       20
Basement          68        19         12           -        -        -
All          54        14         23          4         1        2
Source: WSDC 1983 (Table 4).
2.08      For geological reasons, the Government boreholes were mainly
constructed in the Qoz soils. With traditional technology, these
light-textured, easy-to-cultivate, relatively infertile soils cannot



- 10 -
support continuous cultivation, and a shifting cultivation system has
evolved. However, regeneration periods are long and after initially
cropping for 5 or 6 years, a fallow of about 10 years is necessary before
three or at most four crops can again be grown, followed by 10 more years
of fallow. In these circumstances, the available land supply and the
period under fallow is shrinking rapidly as the area of exhausted land
increases.
2.09      The identification of limiting factors to agricultural
production, the testing of fertilizer, rotations, cultivation practices,
sead dressing, use of animal and mechanized traction inter alia, and the
adaptation of those innovations which enhance productivity into existing
farming systems would be ongoing from WSP-I into the proposed project.
Technical innovations being applied or which are ready for application
include seed dressing, phosphate application to millet, animal tr,ction and
veterinary services. Alluvial soil tractor cultivation using chisel
ploughs has been shown to be productive and profitable but requires further
trials into depth of ploughing and subsequent cultivations. Village
community land enclosure for deferred grazing has also been shown to
Increase cattle production and improve composition and density of swards,
but has limited replicability until a provincial land use and land tenure
policy has been defined (para. 3.10). Forage and pasture development from
seed is in various stages of identification and development. Viable forage
legumes for use in fallows have been identified, but range and pasture
rehabilitation improvement using extensive seeding techniques suC' as
aerial spraying are so far untried.
2.10      Because of the nomadic and transhumant pattern of livestock
movements in the project area, livestock numbers can only be approximate.
There are about 2.0 million cattle, 1.0 million sheep, 0.75 million goats
and 200,000 camels and equines. These are owned by migratory and some
sedentary pastoralist communities in larger herds/flocks, and by settled
cultivators in smaller herds/flockso Livestock production per animal is
higher in transhumant herds than in sedentary herds, calving percentage
varies widely between 40 and 60%, calf mortality between 15 and 25%, and
age of males at marketing between 3 and 5 years.  Annual offtake is
estimated at 7-12% for cattle, and 20-30% for sheep and goats. The cattle
figure excludes sick animals salvaged for home consumption. Average milk
yields are not known, but milk from cattle is a critical component of the
diet of most rural people in the "hungry gap' between the onset of rains in
late June, when most cows calve, and November when the first cereal crops
are harvested. The poor condition of the rangeland results from the
dilemma which occurs where grazing is communally owned, Livestock are
privately owned, and owners compete for the available grazing. Under these
circumstances, the communal responsibility for preserving a balance between
the supply and demand for rangeland is lost. The most important animal
diseases present in the project area are rinderpest, contageous bovine
pleuropneumonia (CBPP) and trypanosomiasis. Sudan is one of 28 countries
participating in the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign scheduled to commence
in 1985/86, which aims to contain rinderpest and CBPP and strengthen
national veterinary capacities.



- 11 -
E. Socio-Economic
2.11      South Darfur is the more productive province of the Darfur region
and supports a wide spectrum of farming systems in which sedentary
producers' incomes vary between US$100 and US$200 per capita. Within this,
farmers with livestock would generally have incomes higher than farmers
with none. The range of nomadic pastoralists' per capita income is known
to be wide, and in the absence of any objective data is estimated to range
from about USS100 per capita to between US$250-500 (which assumes 6 people
and herds of up to 150 cattle per household). Sedentary farmers and
herders are entirely dependent on assured permanent water sources. In most
cases this is provided from wateryards either on a seasonal or year-round
basis. They are also dependent on adequate crop yields and forage. In
years of poor harvests or forage production, nomads modify their treks,
sedentary herders may become semi-nomadic and/or sell more stock, crop
farmers with livestock sell more stock and farmers with no livestock may
have to move.
2.12      A succession of poor seasons can deplete many sedentary
farmers'/herders' reserves and give rise to relatively large movements
towards the less affected areas and larger centers of population in search
of more affluent relatives, grass seeds for human consumption, fodder for
whatever animals have su.-vived, or government relief. The nomads move
their normal treks further south but not without additional losses due to
increased exposure to trypanosomiasis, a blood parasite transmitted by
tsetse flies. The occasional occurrence of widespread drought,
particularly after a run of poor crop/forage years, can force large numbers
of rural families to move. Such movements, as in 1985, are particularly
disruptive, always associated with hardship for those involved, only
partially reversible, and Lnevitably linked with an increase in pressure on
those land areas through which these people must pass or in which they are
forced to seek relief.
2.13      As a result, there has been a significant increase in the area of
cultivated land and a reduction in tree cover in the project area. The
consequences of expanding cultivation has been a sharp reduction in fallow
periods in traditional farming systems with consequent lower yields and the
loss to livestock owners of some of their best grazing land which has led
to disputes, particuls.-ly on migration routes. Among transhumant groups
each household is lea )y a male head who manages the livestock, and each
transhumant camp has a titular leader. Tribal councils regulate relations
with settled farmers with whom conflicts arise over water use and when
passing livestock damage growing crops. Regional and local governments
become involved where disputes become violent or when petitioned by the
weaker side. The settled farming communities provide some seasonal labor
to the irrigated cropping areas along the Nile corridor, and communal work
parties from within the larger communities are the main form of
supplementary labor during peak cropping activities such as land clearing,
weeding and harvesting.
2.14      Current farming a'-n grazing methods involve virtually no off-farm
inputs and a minimum of management, and rely on sufficiently long periods
of fallow to sustain yields and animal production levels. Grazing fallows



- 12 -
of sufficient duration (10 to 15 years) are becoming increasingly difficult
if not impossible to ensure, and there is an urgent need to introduce new
agronomic, grazing management and appropriate land tenure systems if the
productive capacity of South Darfur is to continue to support even its
pre-1984 drought populations of people and livestock.
2.15      The institutions which will take part in, or have a bearing on,
the project are described in Annex 1. Their relationships and
interdependence appear complicated; nevertheless experience in WSP-I
demonstrated WSDC's capacity to develop cooperation with traditional
authorities, councils and Regional and Provincial Government agencies.
Following the change of Central Government in April 1985, it is now not
clear what future administrative or fiscal role the Regional Authorities
will have, but whatever the new ctructure, provincial technical
departmental units will remain. During this period, there is the need for
an appropriately designed intervention to assist the Regional Authority to
effectively formulate a strategy for collection, allocation and management
of fiscal resources and staff at regional, provincial and district levels.
Provision is currently being made for assistance in this area by ODA,
independent of the project. Under the project, there is also an empirical
need to strengthen local institutions including most importantly those to
represent project beneficiaries. Consequently, when the Regional
Government structure is defined, it will be necessary to revise the
membership of WSDC's Board to ensure adequate and effective beneficiary
representation (para. 4.04).



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The major objective of the project is to maintain, and after some
years of resource recovery, to raise the standard of living of the
population of the project area by increasing the availability and security
of food and water supplies without a concomitant increase in environmental
degradation. Currently because of low inherent soil fertility and a lack
of off-farm inputs, crop productiou is largely dependent on exploitative
shifting cultivation. Areas available are inadequate to allow current
production levels to be maintained from these systems in the long-term.
Increased production per area and a dramatic reduction in the period
required for regenerative fallow are essential if the area is to supply
adequate food for an ever increasing population. The present livestock
production system of sedentary and nomadic communities are also
exploitative and lead to degradation of the environment. Improved
management of grazing areas and introduction of new fodder species are
crucial to the long-term viability of the livestock industry.
B. Project Description
3.02      The proposed project would provide for:
(a)   Extension of the ongoing wateryard rehabilitation program to
include an additional 54 yards, installation of t5 new yards,
establishment of a comprehensive maintenance syst?m for 224
yards, and extension of full cost recovery procedu-es to all 233
yards in the project area.
(b)   Improvement of the capacity of veterinary services in the project
area to control major epidemic diseases of livestock, expand the
ongoing revolving drug fund, and develop licensed private
veterinary practices.
(c)   Services for settlement of a further 1,250 families on the WSP-I
model and 3,600 families with water and extension services but
without individual land unit demarcation.
(d)   Increased support for the Development Centers set up under WSP-I
to generate, screen and demonstrate technology so as to underpin
project incremental production.
(e)   Direction and training of small extension services in the project
area to promulgate known and emerging key technologies to farmers
and stock owners. These would include phosphatic fertilizer,
crop rotations, seed dressing, alternative virieties and crops,
oversowing of fallows, tree establishment and animal-drawn
weeder/seeders.



- 14 -
(f)   Demonstration of a custom tractor service'for traditional farmers
on alluvial soils which cannot be hand cultivated. The
five-tractor unit would be intended to stimulate the private
sector to offer such services.
(g)   Strengthening of the capacity of WSDC and the Range and Pasture
Department to (i) obtain, process and distribute seed of improved
forage and browse species, and (ii) assist sedentary and nomadic
communities to enclose and rotationally graze pastures; and
provide funds to enable the Forestry Department to rehabilitate
small nurseries and revegetate/stabilize denuded areas.
(h)   Construction of minor road improvements to facilitate access to,
and marketing of produce from, the project area.
(i)   Technical services and training.
(j)   Materials and services for the recurrent operation of the Darfur
Research Stations at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowazat built under
the WSARP. This component would be implemented by WSARP under a
separate Project Agreement.
3.03      The project would be implemented over five years and would build
on the achievements in infrastructure, staffing, and ongoing activities of
WSP I. The supply of services, the adaptive research, and the monitoring
activities begun under WSP-I would be continued and expanded, but there
would be a significant shift in emphasis towards the extension of
technology identified under WSP-I to farming and livestock commanities and
the strengthening of cooperating agencies. The project would gear existing
and new cost recovery systems towards at least meeting the ongoing costs of
the maintenance of services established by the project, and where possible,
contribute towards further capital formation.
3.04      The project would establish effective supply channels for farm
inputs. Tested technology would be extended to the fouw existing
controlled settlements, three new controlled settlements, eight new
community settlements in which land would be allocated to the village
community but not demarcated into individual holdings, and to about 45
existing communities based each on a wateryard but for whom no land
allocation or leasing is foreseen. The custom tractor service would refine
techniques and expand services to smallholders in the development of
cropping on alluvial (Naga'a) soils. The project would improve the
productivity of grazing areas by introducing new pasture species on
fallows, and deferred grazing systems to serve both sedentary and nomadic
communities. A capacity would be established to produce the large
quantities of pasture and browse seed needed by the project. Project
activities would be supported by technical assistance and a comprehensive
training program.
3.05      The long-term benefits of the project are likely to depend on the
extent to which t-aditional Institutions, district councils, and
beneficiaries associations are able to continue the work initiated by



- 15 -
WSDC. To prepare local institutions for this role, the project would
direct substantial resources to their training and development (para.
3.31).
C. Project Components
3.06      The project would support four divisions in WSDC: Agricultural
Development (ADD), Engineering Services (ESD), Administration and Financial
Services (AFD), and Monitoring and Evaluation (MED)
The Agricultural Development Division
3.07      Enhanced smallholder crop production would take place under the
project mainly on the Qoz soil areas within wateryard settlements, but
limited mechanized development of Naga'a soils is also planned. There
would be project activities to enhance livestock production in basement
areas with both sedentary and nomadic communities. Agricultural
development would be generated by the inter-related project investments
shown in Table 2.
Table 2
Agricultural Development - Costs Including Contingencies
LSd million             US$ million
Settlements                           5.02                   2.01
Veterinary Services                   7.45                   2.98
Range and Pasture Improvement         3.78                    1.51
Forestry                               1.30                   0.52
Development Centers                   2.99                    1.19
Farm Inputs                            1.93                   0.77
Naga'a Cultivation                    1.18                   0.47
Extension                             2.89                    1.16
Technical Assistance                  4.89                    1.95
Training                              2.41                   0.96
Strengthening Local Institutions      1.29                   0.52
Unallocated Operating Costs            0.98                   0.40
36.11                  14.44
3.08      Settlements.  Three new and four existing settlements, would each
accommodate about 450 families on about 21,000 ha, of which about 9,000 ha
would be grazing land on the periphery of the settlement area, and 12,000
ha in a cultivation and grazing fallow rotation. Investments in the three
new settlements would include a wateryard, survey and demarcation of
individual family holdings, and minor civil works to accommodate staff.
Operating costs for these settlements include staff costs and costs to
operate wateryards and vehicles. In addition to those seven settlements on



- 16 -
the WSP-I model, the project would establish eight new community
settlements on a model in which land would be surveyed, demarcato:d and
allocated in one block to the community dependent on each waterjard, but
which would not include surveying and demarcation of individua. holdings.
Each of these communities would have a new wateryard provided 3y the
project and project-related extension services by the AED. Viilare
councils would allocate and demarcate individual family unil:s of land
within the community settlements. The settlement program would therefore
accommodate in all about 6,750 farm families or 45,000 people at full
development. The site establishment costs, including operation of water
supplies and administrative staff costs for 3-5 years, for these two types
of settlements will vary from the equivalent of about US$800 per family for
community settlements to US$1,200 per family for settlements with
individually demarcated and registered land holdings.
3.09      Under WSP-I most settlers moved onto their allocated holdings
only within the lasL year, and WSDC's experience in bringing about
successful settlement is limited to that period. WSDC has set up local
settler selection committees which appear to have been successful.
Nevertheless, despite RSDC's strong sociological capacity, the need to
proceed with settlement step by step so as to avoid creating conflicts of
interest or neglecting established rights is repeatedly demonstrated. This
is partly because of varying tribal customs and the variety of life styles
followed by nomads, transhumants and sedentary people. The numbers of
people to be settled under the project is small compared to the numbers
who have migrated to the project area (perhaps 250,000) over the last 18
months. The project will attempt to determine the least expensive way of
effectively assisting settlement and establishing land tenure by comparing
the two settlement models and by monitoring the results of providing only
extension services to 45 wateryard communities (paras. 3.04 and 3.26).
Unstructured settlement has led to the present situation of degraded land,
therefore the overriding consideration in any settlement model with or
without land tenure would be maintenance of the natural resources by
establishing soil-sustaining farming systems. Under the project, WSDC's
experience in promoting settlement will be enlarged, the model(s) of choice
will be identified, and AED's capacity to convey the essential technical
packages will be created, so that a much heavier settlement program could
be undertaken post project.
3.10      However, before the existing land use pattern could be modified
or settlement extended onto new areas beyond those proposed under the
project, GOS will have to decide on a policy for land tenure in the
province (paras. 1.06 and 2.06). Such a policy should:
(a)   Limit allocation of land for large-scale mechanized farming to
ensure provision is made for smallholders;
(b)   Restrict exhaustive large-scale exploitive cultivation; and
(c)   Establish the principle that land has value by charging for
leases. This would introduce the means of cost recovery and
generate funds to open up new areas.



- 17 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that following its study of the
report of the Land Tenure Tesk Force, GOS would make proposals to implement
land tenure policy in South Darfur which would be discussed with IDA/IFAD
not later than June 30, 1987. In addition, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that WSDC would be consulted by GOS and/or the Regional
Authorities before any major land use decisions concerning South Darfur are
taken during the life of the project.
3.11      Veterinary Services.  The project would continue the WSP-I
program to improve the Veterinary Services Adminstration's (VSA) capability
to effectively control the major epidemic diseases. Vehicles, imported
refrigeration equipment and materials would be provided to VSA, and the
Drug Revolving Fund established under WSP I would be enlarged. Provision
is made for foreign exchange to meet the full requirements of the fund
throughout the project period. The effectiveness of the epidemic disease
control programs would be enhanced by the provision of glassware for
vaccine production to the CVL. Additional laboratory supplies to
RVRL-Nyala would enable RVRL to strengthen disease monitoring services in
the project area both for VSA and for private veterinary practitioners.
Veterinary Scouts would be trained by VSA and utilized to supply
trypanocidal drugs to nomads moving south of the Bahr El Arab in the dry
season where they would be out of reach of regional services.
3.12      Provision is also made for vehicles and equipment for six private
veterinary practitioners or group practices. The Agricultural Bank of
Sudan would make loans under its standard terms and conditions to
individuals or companies to enable them to buy vehicles, equipment and an
initial supply of drugs. These items would be procured by WSDC and sold at
cost to practitioners. The Sudanese Veterinary Association would monitor
the performance of private practitioners and their use of loan funds.
3.13       Range and Pasture Improvement.  The program of range and pasture
improvement would be implemented by the Government Range and Pasture
Administration (RPA), in cooperation with WSDC and AED. Currently RPA has
little management capacity. WSDC will therefore provide leadership with
project activities until RPA's capacity is strengthened by example and
training under the project. RPA's operational capacity would be
strengthened under the project by the provision of transport, equipment and
facilities at Nyala and Timbusku. The program would: (i) identify suitable
fodder and forage species for introduction to different agro-ecological
zones; (ii) establish grasses, legumes and browse species on project
settlement communal grazing areas (Qoz); (iii) introduce improved grasses
and legumes into the fallow sequence of the crop rotation; (iv) improve the
species composition in rotationally grazed enclosures used in controlled
grazing schemes; (v) establish a capacity for the production of seed of
forage and fodder species; and (vi) reintroduce traditional communal
construction of firebreaks.
3.14      Pasture improvement would initially be undertaken on the
community grazing and fallow areas associated with the fifteen
settiements. When success has been achieved in those areas, the techniques
will be extended progressively to the 45 communities around wateryards



- 18 -
which AED will service. Community grazing areas to be oversown would be on
the periphery of settlements. Seed would be broadcast by participating
communities on measured areas at the onset of the rains. Fallow areas on
settlements would be improved by oversowing persistent legumes and grasses
in the first season following the cropping cycle. Legume seed would be
pretreated with phosphate and insecticide and sown at a rate of about 2
kg/ha.
3.15      Under WSP-I, land enclosures to facilitate deferred grazing
management were built by the sedentary community at Umm Belut. This
development will be extended to 15 other communities under the proposed
project, and will include the surveying and registration of up to 3,000 ha
per community. Pasture improvement would be undertaken in those enclosures
erected by the community by broadcasting seed of browse shrubs, Cenchrus
ciliaris, and Stylosanthes spp.
3.16      Work with transhumant or nomadic communities would be a pilot
program to continue the work begun in WSP-I with the community which spends
the wet season at Sonia Doleiba. Work has focussed on the production
constraints of insecurity of land tenure, herd hlealth and nutrition.
Activity will entail land surveying, range oversowing and animal mineral
nutrition supplementation. It is foreseen that several years will be
required to develop useful technical packages which are acceptable to these
communities. For that reason, no timeframe or estimate of volume is
forecast for project achievements with these communities. However,
provision is made for the construction of two new hafirs (surface water
storage ponds) and rehabilitation of six existing hafirs to serve the
six nomadic communities in the program.
3.17      Seed for a'.l range and pasture improvement programs to be
supported under the project would be provided through a Seed Center to be
established at WSDC headquarters at Nyala. Funds would be provided for
office and storage space (air conditioned for long-term storage of seed
collections), storage bins, a covered seed processing area, vehicles, seed
processing equipment and operating costs. Initially, seed would be
imported but would be produced from the second project year onwards under a
pasture seed production scheme to be introduced under the project, which
would involve contract seed growers producing seed for the Seed Center.
The rate at which pastures could be sown would depend on the effectiveness
of the extension services in carrying information to the farmers and in
mobilizing their support. The estimated areas to be planted under the
project are given in Table 3.



-19 -
Table 3
Rate of Establishment of Improved Pastures
(ha)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Settlement Communities
Pastures                   100      400    1,000    7,500    12,000   21,000
Fallows                    100      400    1,000    4,500      7,000   13,000
Sedentarr Communities
Within enclosures        1,000    1,000    3,000    4,500      6,500   16,000
3.18      Forestry and Rangeland Rehabilitation.  Under the proposed
project, farmers and farming communities woulV be encouraged to plant trees
and shrubs in community-owned woodlots, around homesteads and on farm and
field boundaries. Since the agricultural extension services would be
primarily responsible for contacting and motivating farmers, the initial
forestry efforts would be concentrated in the wateryards/settlements where
extension is scheduled to operate. The Forestry Department (FD) would be
responsible for establishing a small nursery at each settlement or
wateryard community. In order to enable adequate supervision and technical
advice to be provided, FD would be strengthened under the project by the
provision of vehicles, camping and office equipment, and incremental
operating costs.
3.19      Large areas of rangeland in the northern Central Distrlct have
become seriously degraded because of the drought and Injudicious land use
practices. A revegetation/rehabilitation program in these areas would be
undertaken on a pilot basis during the project period. Field stations
would be established at Gedid Ras El Fil and Menawashei.  Over the first
two project years drought tolerant browse shrubs, trees and grasses would
be established in areas not subjected to frequent grazing or in grazing
areas where local commnitias agree to restrict and control grazing.
Initially, species used would be Cenchrus, Atriplex, Spinifex, Prosopis and
Acacia. Other species to be planted would be identified as a result of the
screening programs to ie carried out at the field stations and Development
Centers. Range rehabil4.tation would be the responsibility of FD. Under
the proposed project, housing and stores (at the rehabilitation centers),
equipment, camping kits, camels and saddles, and incremental operating
costs would be provided. A small nursery would be established at Gedid Ras
El Fil for the production of seedlings of both browse species and trees for
planting in compounds and around villages.
Research and Extension
3.20      Development Centers.  The three Development Centers established
under WSP-I would continue under the proposed project to concentrate on
adaptive research and the generation of technology for the several



- 20 -
agro-ecological zones of the project area. To strengthen linkages with the
extension services, some extension staff would be located at the
Development Centers (para. 3.26). A credit officer stationed at each
centre would provide a link between the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS)
and farmers who require credit to enable them to take up new technology
being generated by the centers.
3.21      The adaptive research program at the Development Centers would
include investigations on:
(i)   Crop variety screening (including forage legumes);
(ii)   Crop rotations for striga control and to develop farming systems
to restore and/or maintain soil fertility;
(iii)   Fertilizers and trace elements (phosphate placement, effects of
molybdenum and sulphur);
(iv)   Establishment techniques in hard-pan areas for grasses, legumes,
browse shrubs and trees; and
(v)   Animal traction systems.
This program would be supported by the long-term applied research to be
conducted at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowazat Research Stations. The
Development Centers would also serve as training and demonstration sites.
Training would be provided on a regular basis for Extension Agents (EA) and
selected farmers in extension methodology and improved technology.
Demonstrations would include new techniques for using animal draft power,
live fencing, new crop and pasture species and varieties, and the use of
trees for fodder, wind breaks, and fuel. The trees would form a major
source of seed for the range and pasture program.
3.22      Millet is the most important cereal crop !- the project area. At
present, there are well recognized varieties, but no clean seed of known
purity on the market. Farmers keep their own seed, sometimes selecting
seed from plants with large seed heads. Under the project, the Development
Centers would be responsible for improving the quality of millet seed.
Seed cleaning and grading equipment would be provided, and the improved
seed would be distributed through the Extension Services. The farmers on
the settlements and wateryards are therefore assumed to be the main
recipients of the available seed, although some seed would undoubtedly be
distributed to adjacent farmers (Annex 12, Table 3). After harvest, the
seed would be purchased from contract growers at a 25 percent premium above
prevailing market prices for grain. It would be cleaned at the Development
Centers and sold to farmers at a price set to cover total costs of
production, handling and transportation.
3.23      Input Distribution.  The project provides funds for all the
fertilizer, seed dressing material and animal-drawn implements which it is
foreseen farmers will take up as a result of the project. These items will
be sold to farmers at cost plus a distribution charge. Once a demand has



- 21 -
been established, it is expected that input supplies would become available
through the local markets. Thus in year 5, the amount of seed dressing
material provided under the project is lower because the local markets will
be taking over this activity. This has been demonstrated in parts of
Darfur where seed dressing is now readily available. Until this marketing
system has developed, inputs would be distributed to the settlements and
wateryards involved in the extension campaign by trucks operated by WSDC as
part of their normal work program. Agricultural Officers (AO) and
Extension Officers (EO) would be required to forecast input demands for the
planting season and ensure that the agronomist/extension specialist is
advised of needs in time to arrange for delivery before the critical
period.
3.24      Naga'a Cultivation.  The technique and financial viability of
cultivating Naga'a soils with tractor-drawn chisel ploughs has been
demonstrated under WSP-I. Adaptive research to refine the cultivation
techniques would continue to be based at Jumeiza Development Center which
would be strengthened by the addition of a workshop and provision of
vehicles and equipment. This work program would concentrate on ploughing
depth, soil erosion control, residual effects of chisel ploughing and the
possibility of substituting animal power for tractors after the initial
land opening with tractors. Socio-economic studies would also be
undertaken which relate to equitable distribution of Naga'a land areas
amongst community members. In the long term, the aim would be to promote
involvement of private contractors in the cultivation of the Nagata soils
on a relatively large scale, but in smallholder units.
3.25      A Tractor Hire Unit would be equipped with five tractors and
chisel ploughs, vehicles and trailers and would be based at Jumeiza.
Cultivation would be undertaken over a five-month period from January to
May at sites selected to be within three kilometers from base camps
established at various places on the Naga'a complex. The tractors would
cultivate an estimated 2,500 ha per season but not more than 15 ha per
farmer, and farmers would be charged full costs for this cultivation.
3.26      Agriculturai Extension.  Under the project, a small extension
unit would be eetablished in WSDC and the existing service of AED
strengthened in order to extend the technology and distribute the
agricultural inputs needed to increase agricultural production and farm
income.
(a)   WSDC Extension Unit
The WSDC Extension Unit would concentrate on the four controlled
settlements established under WSP-I, the three similar additional
settlementS Lo be set up under the proposed project, and the
eight community settlements which will be developed with group
land allocation around the new wateryards (para. 3.08).
Extension at each settlement would be under the control of an EO
who would be supervised by the WSDC agronomy/extension
specialist. Radio-telephone communications would be provided to
link settlements with Development Centers and WSDC headquarters.



- 22 -
(b)   The Agricultural Extension Department
With direction from WSDC, the AED would be responsible for
extension services to 45 of the communities clustered around the
most actively used wateryards in the project area. AED staff
would receive additional training during the first two years of
the project, and the agronomist/extension specialist would
provide technical direction and support to the EO's of AED and
supervise the preparation of extension messages.
During the last two years of the project, AED would progressively assume
responsibility for all extension, acting as a CA with guidance from, and
agreed work programs with, WSDC.
3.27      EA's to be recruited at wateryards would be under the direction
of EO's and would be equipped with a camel, extension material, and a store
for inputs. EA's would receive routine bi-monthly training at Development
Centres and would be responsible for delivering both extension messages and
associated inputs to the farming community. EO's on controlled settlements
and the EA's working on wateryards would be responsible for an average of
about 400 farm families. The rate of induction of settlements and
communities into the extension program is shown in Table 4. Although as
many as 80% of farmers are expected to use the simplest technology, such as
seed dressing, it is estimated that only about half would participate in
those extension programs which would require more sophistication or
significant investment, such as application of phosphatic fertilizers or
mechanical weeding. The basis for the extension messages (Annexes 11 and
12) is the research findings from WSP-I. The value of small dressings of
phosphatic fertilizer, donkey-drawa weeder/seeders and seed dressings have
been clearly demonstrated, and there is already widespread demand for the
technology in the project area. However at the time of appraisal, neither
triple superphosphate nor rock phosphate were in the Government's list of
fertilizer approved for importation, nor is any produced in Sudan. Written
confirmation has since been received from GOS that these materials will now
be included in the approved list.
Table 4
Rate of Induction of Settlements into the Extension Program
(Number of settlements)
Year I  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Existing Controlled
Settlements                             4        4        4         4
New Controlled
Settlements                             1        2        3         3
New Community
Settlements                 --          2        4        6         8
Existing Wateryard
Communities                  6          9       18       30       45
Total (Cumulative)             6         16       28       43        60



- 23 -
Technical Assistance
3.28      The project would provide technical assistance (TA) in those
areas where GOS, WSDC and WSARP agree that the necessary qualified and
experienced staff are not available locally. The provision made and source
of funding for each post is shown in Annex 3 and terms of reference for the
proposed individual TA staff in Annex 2. An internationally recruited
Senior Agriculturalist is provided for four project years. He would
continue to head the ADD until that responsibility is taken over by a
Sudanese Deputy Director General, Technical (DDGT) during the third year of
the project, after which he would be advisor to the DDGT. Provision is
also made for an Agronomist/Extension Specialist, and a Range and Pasture
Specialist. Under WSP-I an Agronomist had to be recruited overseas in 1984
when no suitably qualified Sudanese could be recruited. The Range and
Pasture Specialist will assist WSDC to introduce new technology in this
field. Experience in the introduction of improved species into grassland
areas in Sudan has had mixed success. Many introduced species have failed
to establish. The project improvement program is based on those species
which have been most successful, but the success of the program as a whole
will depend on adequate advice and technology which is only available in
countries with a long history of pasture research in semi-arid conditions
such as Australia, USA, Brazil, India and Colombia. Therefore, a Range and
Pasture Specialist would be employed under the project for three years to
provide guidance on pasture species suitable for Sudan and on their
establishment, maintenance, utilization and seed production.  The
specialist would be responsible to the Senior Agriculturalist and would
work with WSDC Development Centers, the Seed Center, RPA, and the extension
services.
3.29      The WSP-I resident TA positions of Land Use Planner and
Settlement Agriculturalist would not be required under the project, but
provision is made for short-term consultancies in Land Use
Planning/Mapping. All resident Agricultural TA would be phased out at the
end of project year 4. Provision for short-term consultancies is based on
the needs revealed under WSP-I and in disciplines relating to new
technology. In total, 6.25 manyears is provided for short-term specialist
services in extension, forage seed production, livestock production, land
use planning/mapping, sociology and institutional development.
Training
3.30      Training would be necessary in a range of skills and at several
technical levels. This project would provide a wide spectrum of in-depth
training so that agricultural research and development in Darfur
subsequently would require only minimal technical assistance, and on a
short-term consultancy basis. In order to achieve this, the project would
fund:
For staff of the Agricultural Development Division:
(a) Local courses of about 3 months duration at training
institutions in Sudan for 27 trainees; primarily training in



- 24 -
extension methodology at the University of Khartoum through
the National Extension Course.
(b) Overseas courses of three monthe duration for 14 trainees;
primarily to enable professional staff to attend short
courses and seminars at selected institutions in Gther
African countries.
(c) Overseas courses of one year's duration for 8 trainees;
primarily for professional staff to study crop, range and
livestock production in semi-arid conditions.
(d) Four courses each of about four weeks duration conducted in
Sudan by overseas trainers; primarily to train middle-level
technical staff in extension of semi-arid farming techniques
and technical packages.
(e) 2,000 manweeks of WSDC-conducted on-the-job training for
staff and farmers. These would include bi-annual workshops
for Agronomists and Senior Extension Staff at WSDC UQ-Nyala,
monthly workshops for research and extension personnel, and
short demonstration courses for farmers and stock owners at
Development Centers.
During WSP-I several WSDC staff attended training courses at ICRISAT. This
liaison would continue under the project.
Strengthening Local Institutions
3.31      The project makes financial provision to enable WSDC to identify
and implement an institutional development program (para. 4.09) in order to
strengthen District, Rural and Village Councils, and Traditional
Authorities including Nazirs, Omdas and Sheikhs within the project area by
demonstration and training. These institutions and bodies are all organs
of government, albeit very localized; hence WSDC in programming this
training would stay closely within a mandate to be agreed with Central
Government. Other solely project-related institutions will also need
assistance by on-site training and exposure to other similar organizations
whose example would be tutorial. These would include the Umm Belut and yet
to be established sedentary atid nomadic grazing committees, settler
councils and individual wateryard committees where these are not synonymous
with village councils.
3.32      Unallocated Costs.  This subcomponent will appear in all
divisions and would provide for recurrent costs, principally salaries,
wages and vehicle and machinery operating costs which relate to a number of
other subcomponents and cannot be correctly allocated between them.
The Engineering Services Division
3.33      The Engineering Services Division of WSDC would provide the
mechanized support to the ADD of WSDC and to NWC, which are the two impact
thrusts of the project.



- 25 -
Table 5
Engineering Services - Costs Including Contingencies
LSd million            US$ million
Wateryard Rehabilitation             13.36                   5.34
New Wateryards                        5.08                   2.03
Hafirs                                1.14                   0.46
Roads and Tracks                      4.38                   1.75
Technical Assistance                  1.95                   0.78
Training                              0.51                   0.21
Divisional Vehicles & Equipment       2.28                   0.91
Unallocated Operating Costs           5.44                   2.19
34.14                  13.66
3.34      Wateryards.  Eleven new wateryards would be built on the
settlements program. These would all be at new sites each having two new
tubewells. The project would also expand on the rehabilitation program
commenced in WSP-I by rehabilitating an additional 54 wateryards.
Concurrently, the project would assist NWC to eatablish a comprehensive
ongoing maintenance system for the 224 wateryards in the project area.
Materials for NWC which WSDC would procure under the project would be
vehicles, vehicle spares and tools, and wateryard spares to service
tubewell pumps, engines and delivery systems. Provision is made for the
construction of two new hafirs (water storage ponds) and rehabilitation of
six existing hafirs to serve nomadic communities who take part in the
pasture improvement program (para. 3.16). These hafirs would serve those
communities in grazing areas where clay soils overlay basement rock and
aquifers for borehole extraction are difficult to locate.
3.35      Roads and Tracks.  The project would continue the track
improvement program commenced in WSP-I and would construct 24 Irish
bridges, 6 culverts, and 37 km of raised earth road. The possibility of a
bridge over the Wadi Ibra would be studied and if possible, a bridge would
be constructed. All these works are required to facilitate access to
locations in the area where project developments would take place. Without
a bridge over the Wadi Ibra access to the South Western District is not
possible for 3-4 months per year. The project would also finance a study
to determine the costs and benefits of building a road between Nyala and
Buram, provided that funding for constructing the road was, in principle,
available from other sources. The present track carries the greatest
volume of produce which is marketed from the project area.
3.36      Technical Assistance.  TA provided for this division shown in
Annex 3 includes the services of a Mechanical Engineer (ME) for three years
and a Systems Operation Manager (SOM) for two years. The ME's principal
responsibility will entail the maintenance of WSDC's fleet of about 100
vehicles and other equipment such as generators, and the construction,
equipping and commissioning of WSDC's mechanical workshop extension. The



- 26 -
SOK would assist NWC to program and operate workshops and maintenance
systems for its wateryards and vehicles, and initiate water supply cost
accounting. The ME would continue assistance to NWC after the SOM's
assignment is completed. The Civil Engineer in post under WSP-I will
continue during the interim period and for the first project year. By that
time, the last of the designs will be completed and contracts prepared.
Local staff would take responsibility for supervision of construction.
Civil works under the project are small in volume and simple in design
(para. 3.58).  However, provision is made for short-term civil and
mechanical engineering consultancies totalling 2 man years.
3.37      Training.  Training would aim to improve the managerial and
technical skills of staff in this division and also equip a number of staff
with the ability to train field machinery operators at wateryards and other
mechanical units. Funds are provided for courses of about three months
duration to train eight technicians in Sudan and three overseas. One
person will be trained for one year overseas in engineering relevant to
water flows and water harvesting in arid areas. One four-week course to
train machinery operators/tractor drivers in Darfur by an overseas
recruited trainer is also provided.
The Administration and Finaacial Services Division
Table 6
Project Administration - Costs Including Contingencies
LSd million             US$ million
Capital Costs                         4.87                    1.95
Technical Assistance                   2.16                   0.87
Training                              0.85                    0.34
Aircraft Operation                     2.72                   1.09
Other Operating Costs                11.93                    4.77
22.53                   9.02
3.38      Capital Costs.  The project would provide funds for civil works
to be constructed at WSDC Headquarters. An office extension, a workshop
extension and parts store, and additional fuel storage capacity would be
built. Vehicles, machinery and equipment, which are centrally located at
project headquarters in Nyala, at Khartoum and at Port Sudan to handle
imported materials, are also provided for in this subcomponent.
3.39      Technical Assistance.  The Financial Controller is the only
internationally recruited specialist for whom provision is made for the
full project period of five years. The current paucity of Sudanese with
adequate training and experience in this discipline makes this provision
essential. However, training would be provided under the project, and it
may be possible for a Sudanese to assume responsibility for this position
before project completion.



- 27
3.40      Training:  Training in this division will include:
(a)   Project management and administration training on 3-4 months
overseas courses for three trainees;
- (b) Financial management training on a one year overseas course for
one trainee; and
(c)   Training in Khartoum for storekeepers, clerical staff and
bookkeepers. Thirty staff members would attend courses of three
months duration.
3.41      Aircraft Operations.  The twIn-engined light aircraft which was
purchased under Credit 834-SU for WSARP is currently used on average for
only one or two days per week. Funds are provided under the project to
enable this aircraft to be used to provide services to both WSDC and
WSARP.
3.42      Other Operating Costs.  Provision under this subcomponent is for
all project central operating costs at Nyala, Khartoum and Port Sudan,
except aircraft operation. Included are staff costs, transport,
electricity generator operation, office supplies and publicity.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Division
Table 7
Monitoring and Evaluatton Costs
LSd million            US$ million
Training                              0.04                  0.02
Technical Assistance                  1.55                  0.62
Operating Costs                       0.88                  0.35
2.47                  0.99
3.43      This division would have two main functions, first to monitor and
advise the project management on the pace of implementation and the
efficiency of resource utilization under the project, and second to
determine the project impact both on beneficiaries and the environment.
The former would be routine reporting on a largely predetermined schedule
and list of critical indicators; the latter would include surveys similar
to those conducted during WSP-I, requiring statistical and
agricultural/biological skill and would therefore have an input from ADD
and from WSARP. The project would provide staff, materials and vehicles
for the expanded role of MED.



- 28 -
3.44      Technical Assistance.  The division would continue to be headed
by an internationally recruited Agricultural Economist through year 3 of
the project. Provision is made under the Agriculture Development Division
for short-term inputs from a Sociologist, a Livestock Specialist and an
Extension Specialist, all of whom would contribute to the output of the
MED. The project Aid-term review would be managed by this unit, and for
that purpose 9 manmonths of additional specialist time is provided.
3.45      Training.  In this division, training on 3-4 month courses in
Sudan will be for two trainees. One will study computer operation and the
other the collection of agricultural data for statistical analysis. Other
training will be by members of the division joining on-site agricultural
training courses by overseas trainers and project staff.
Western Sudan Agricultural Research Stations
3.46      The project provides donor funding for the foreign exchange costs
associated with operation of the WSARP staticns at Ghazala Gowazat in south
Darfur and El Fasher in north Darfur. Funds to meet the cost of operating
the project aircraft to the WSARP stations at El Obeid and Kadugli in
addition to those in Darfur arL similarly provided. Local operating costs
are part of the GOS contribution to the project. Minor research and
laboratory equipment and vehicles are provided.
Table 8
Cost of Research Station Operation in Darfur
LSd million             US$ million
Equipment                             1.09                    0.44
Technical Assistance                  2.69                    1.08
Training                              0.69                    0.28
Aircraft Operation                     1.91                   0.77
Other Operating Costs                 7.91                    3.16
14.30                   5.72
3.47      Technical Assistance.  Provision is made for two animal
production specialists, a soil and water conservation specialist and an
economist each for three years of resident service. Experienced scientists
in these disciplines are not available in Sudan, and the scientists
currently in training overseas under the WSARP will require guidance and
leadership on their return to Sudan.
3.48      Training.  Provision is made to train two scientists to PhD level
overseas during the project which would enable some appropriate technology
to be brought from countries with similar environments to Sudan, and would
offset the inevitable wastage of scientists trained overseas under WSARP.
Funds are also provided to enable two scientists per year to spend three
months overseas either in training or at conferences/seminars.



- 29 -
3.49       Aircraft Operation.  A twin-engined light aircraft (para. 3.43)
will operate a once-weekly service to the two stations in Kordofan as well
as the two stations in Darfur, and the cost of services to both regions is
included under this project.
3.50      Other Operating Costs.  These costs include all recurrent
expenditures associated with operating the research stations in Darfur
including salaries, facility maintenance, vehicle and electricity generator
operation.
D. Project Costs
3.51       Total project cost is estimated at LSd 109.4 million (US$43.8
million) with a foreign exchange component of US$29.0 million. The project
is exempt of import duties; however, project costs contain US$1.1 million
in taxes on fuel expenditures. Project costs are summarized in Table 9
below.
Table 9
Project Cost Summary
LSd million           USS millon              % of
% of  Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE   Costs
Agricultural Development   7.1    18.6    25.7   2.8    7.5    10.3    72    33
Engineering Service     6.0    18.3    24.3   2.4    7.3    9.7    75    31
Project Administratlon    5.7    10.8    16.5   2.3    4.3     6.6    66    21
Mbnitorlng & Evaluation    0.4    1.6    2.0  0.1    0.7    0.8   81          3
Western Sudan Agr.
Research Stations     3.9    6.6    10.5   1.6    2.6        4.2    63     13
Total Baseline Costs   23.1    55.9     79.0   9.2   22.4    31.6   71    100
Physical Contingencies   2.3    4.0    6.3   0.9    1.6    2.5    64        8
Price Oontingencies   11.7   12.4    24.1   4.7    5.0    9.7    52    30
Total Project Costs    37.1    72.3    109.4  14.8   29.0    43.8    66    138
.u.ainrninmu.muw t  u   m.u  ummininrn   imm.inin*
3.52      The cost estimates are based on March 1985 figures updated to
September 1985 baseline price levels and are derived from the preparation
report, recent quotations, and appraisal estimates. No physical
contingencies have been applied to technical assistance and aircraft
operation, and 10% has been applied to all other project costs. Price
contingencies have been calculated based on inflation rates for imported
items, locally procured goods, and labor. Expected inflation rates are
given in Annex 5, Table 4.



- 30 -
Financing
3.53      Project costs would be financed as shown in Table 10 below.
Table 10
Financing of Project Costs
(US$ million )
Z of      Z of Net
Local   Foreign   Total   Total    Project Costs
IDA Credit                1.1       9.5     10.6       .24         .25
IFAD Loan                 1.1       8.8      9.9       .23         .23
ODA                      -         10.7      10.7      .24          .25
Government of Sudan      11.5      -        11.5       .26          .27
Net Project Costs      13.7      29.0     42.7       .97      100.0
Taxes and Duties        1.1      -          1.1      .03
Total Project Costs   14.8       29.0     43.8   100.0
3.54      Under joint financial arrangements, IDA would contribute a credit
of US$10.6 million, and IFAD a loan of US$9.9 million. IDA and IFAD will
jointly finance Settlements, Veterinary Services, Range, Pasture and
Forestry Improvement, hafir and road and track improvement, project
administration, monitoring and evaluation, and the Darfur research
stations. Under parallel financing arrangements, ODA would contribute
US$10.4 million for the financing of wateryard construction and
rehabilitation, research and extension activities, four-wheel drive
vehicles and trucks, and some technical assistance.
3.55      The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms.  The IFAD
loan would be on highly concessional terms: interest at 1% with 550 years
repayment, including a 10 year grace period. Fulfillment of the conditions
precedent to the IFAD loan agreement including appointment of the
Association as cooperating institution to administer the loan, would be
conditions of credit effectiveness. The ODA grant would be made through a
separate financing agreement, with notification of ODA financing approval
as a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. Government's
contribution would be US$11.5 million or 27% of net project costs.
However, over the five year implementatl,n period, it is estimated that
Government would recover US$4.5 million from wateryard revenues, the sale
of veterinary drugs, farm inputs, and Naga'a cultivation services (Annex
14).



- 31 -
3.56      Project financing by category of goods and services is set out in
Table 11 below.
Table 11
Financing by Category of Goods and Services
US$ million
IDA         IFAD      ODA       GOS      Total
Civil Works
Wateryards                            -          1.8      0.4       2.2
Other Civil Works         1.5          1.5       0.2      0.4       3.6
Vehicles                    0.15         0.15      2.5      0.9       3.7
Machinery & Equipment        2.1 1/      1.9       3.8       2.5     10.3
Technical Assistance        2.2 1/       2.0       1.1     -          5.3
Training                     1.0         1.0      -        -          2.0
Farm Inputs                 0.05         0.05      0.6      0.5       1.2
Drugs                       0.6          0.6      -          0.1      1.3
Aircraft Hire                1.2 I/      0.9      -        -          2.1
Operating Expenses          1.8          1.8       0.7       7.8     12.1
Total                 10.6          9.9     10.7      12.6      43.8
I/ Includes project preparation facility.
Procurement
3.57      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 12 below.
IDA,!1AD procedures would be agreed upon at negotiations. Procurement for
those project elements financed by ODA would be in accordance with their
own procurement procedures.



- 32 -
Table 12
Procurement Method
Not
ICB     LIT    Other al   Applicable b/   Total
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed
by IDA/IFAD
Civil Works
Wateryards                              2.2                           2.2
Other Civil Works       2.7             0.2            0.7            3.6
(2.7)                          (0.3)         (3.0)
Vehicles                  0.3             3.4                           3-7
(0.3)                                        (0.3)
Machinery & Equipment             4.0      6.2           0.1           10.3
(4.0)                                (4.0)
Technical Assistance                      5.0            0.3            5.3
(4.0)         (0.2)          (4.2)
Training                                                 2.0            2.0
(2.0)         (2.0)
Farm Inputs                       0.1      1.1                          1.2
(0.1)                                (0.1)
Drugs                             1.3                                   1.3
(1.2)                                (1.2)
Aircraft Hire                              1.8           0.3            2.1
(1.8)         (0.3)          (2.1)
Operating Expenses                        7.3            4.8           12.1
(3.6)                        (3.6)
Total                     3.0     5.4    27.2            7.5           43.8
(3.0)   (5.3)   (9.4)         ',2.6)        {20.6)
a/   Includes items funded by ODA which will be purchaped in accordance
with their guidelines.
b/   Includes refinancing of PPF and direct placement.
3.58      The Civil Engineer in post under WSP-I has prepared designs for
the Nyala mechanical workshop extension with assistance from a short-term
consultant mechanical engineer. The office extension is an additional wing
of the same design as that built in 1983. Outline design of the seed
center would be completed during the interim period prior to the proposed
project becoming effective. However, the internal layout of that building
would require an input from the Range and Pasture Specialist who would be
appointed during the first project year. Designs for other project
buildings are repeats of structures built under WSP-I with, in some cases,
minor modifications which would be made likewise during the interim period.



- 33 -
3.59      Contracts for road and track improvement (US$1.8 million) and
materials to be imported for the building program (US$0.9 million) would be
procured by ICB in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Contracts for
the construction component of buildings would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Experience under WSP-I indicates that ICB is
not practical for the size of contracts proposed in such remote locations.
Qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would receive preferences
in ICB bid evaluation of 71% and 15% respeLtively. Vehicles not purchased
by ODA (US$0.3 million) would be procured by ICB. Assurances where
practical would be sought from suppliers on servicing facilities within the
project area.
3.60      Miscellaneous equipment not purchased by ODA (US$2.1 million),
including agricultural, workshop and radio equipment, would be purchased in
numbers of units inappropriate for ICB. These items would be purchased
through Limited International Tendering procedures for contracts estimated
to cost over US$200,000 each, and by International Shopping for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each. Contracts for goods estimated
to cost less than US$20,000 each would be made by prudent local shopping or
by purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three quotations, but
such contracts would total no more than US$0.5 million. Spare parts for
machinery, equipment and vehicles (US$1.9 million) would be purchased by
quotations from the manufacturers of equipment specific spares, and other
reliable parts manufacturers and dealers for generic spares. Farm inputs
not purchased by ODA (US$100,000) and veterinary drugs (US$1.3 million)
wouid be purchased through the same procedures as miscellaneous equipment
(above). Aircraft services (US$2.1 million) would be provided by WSARP or
procured through negotiation with a local aircraft operating company
acceptable to WSDC and IDA/IFAD (para. 4.07). The company successfully
coatracted to provide services to WSP-I is alone currently acceptable.
3.61      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants funded by
IDA and IFAD (US$4.3 million) would be according to IDA guidelines and
would be subject to IDA/IFAD review. 1/ Overseas and local training
(US$2.0 million) would be by direct placement for which procurement
procedures are inapplicable. Operating expenses include US$4.8 million
equivalent for local salaries which would be met from GOS's contribution,
US$5.7 million for fuel and lubricants which would be procured from GOS,
and US$1.6 for miscellaneous expenses such as animals, building rental and
other administrative costs for which procurement procedures are
inapplicable.
3.62      Bidding packages for works estimated to cost over US$2GC),000
would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement documentatior, as would
packages for goods. Goods and services are estimated to cost US$10.9
million of which goods alone would amount to US$2.6 million. This Would
result in a coverage of about 80% of the total estimated value of contracts
financed by IDA/IFAD. The balance of contracts would be subject to post
review by IDA after contract award.
1/   "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency," August 1981.



- 34 -
Disbursement
3.63      The IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be administered by IDA.
Disbursements over six years against project expenditures would be shared
equally between IDA and IFAD on those goods or services which are to be
jointly financed. The disbursement profile for IDA Eastern Africa
agricultural projects indicate average disbursement periods of eight
years. The shorter disbursement period assumed for the proposed project is
justified because a major part of the project activities are follow-on
activities from the three-year first phase, and WSDC is operative and well
managed. The first phase funding has been disbursed on time, and other
pre-implementation preparat±on activities are being carried out in the
interim between the two projects. The categories of goods and services by
donor and GOS financing is set out in Table 11.
3.64      Disbursements against all items would be based on full
documentation, except operating expenses under category 6, which would
require only a Statement of Expenditure (SOE), a procedure well within the
accounting capacity of WSDC management. Supporting documents for SOEs
would not be submitted for review but retained at WSDC and WSARP
headquarters for inspection by IDA supervision missions. A schedule of
estimated disbursements is shown in Annex 6, Table 1, and disbursements by
category in Table 13 below.
E. Accounts, Audit and Government Funding
3.65      The WSDC would, under the direction of its internationally
recruited Financial Controller, maintain its accounting system to enable
the investments and revenues included under the project and the sources of
funding to be identified. Separate accounts would be kept for project
revolving funds. Accounts would progressively be computerized to
facilitate identification of variable and fixed costs, and to enable
management and donors to exami-I- the efficiency of resource use.
3.66      As in WSP-I, SOEs would be accounted for separately under the
project. SOEs covering periods of three months would be verified by
auditors within three months of the end of each period. Unaudited annual
financial statements would be submitted to IDA in English no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Annual accounts, SOEs and
special accounts wouid be audited by independent coumercial auditors
acceptable to the Association. The audited annual accounts, together with
the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to IDA not later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year. Should GOS require the
Auditor General to audit WSDC's accounts, WSDC would not be relieved of the
obligation to have its accounts audited by commercial auditors.
3.67      In order to ensure smooth implementation of this project, it is
important that WSDC should have prompt access to requisite funds. The WSDC
has maintained a project account (in the Bank of Sudan) during WSP-I
through which local and foreign funds have been channelled. GOS
would replenish this account quarterly to bring the balance in the account
to LSd 500,000 to ensure that WSDC has adequate working capital.



- 35 -
Table 13
Schedule of Disbursements by Categories
(US$ million)
Amount      IDA    IFAD         % of Expenditures
Category            Allocated   Share   Share          to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works             2.6        1.3      1.3    100% of foreign expendi-
Buildings and                                      tures and 80Z of local
Road Construction                                  expenditures.
(WSDC)
(2)  Vehicles, Machinery,                               100% of foreign expen-
Equipment and                                      ditures, or 100% of ex-
Spare Parts                                        factory price if manu-
(a) WSDC                3.6        1.8     1.8    factured locally, or 80%
(b) WSARP               0.2        0.1     0.1    if purchased through
local trade.
(3)  Farm Inputs and                                    100% of foreign expendi-
Veterinary Drugs                                   tures or 100% of ex-
(WSDC)                  1.2        0.6     0.6    factory price if manu-
factured locally, or 80%
if purchased through
local trade
(4)  Technical Assistance                               100Z
(a) WSDC                3.0        1.5     1.5
(b) WSARP               1.0        0.5     0.5
(5)  Training                                           100%
(a) WSDC                1.8       0.9      0.9
(b) WSARP               0.2        0.1     0.1
(6) Aircraft Operation
(a) WSDC                1.0        0.5     0.5
(b) WSARP               0.8        0.4     0.4    100%
(7)  Incremental                                        100% of foreign expendi-
Operating Expenses                                 tures, or if purchased
(a) WSDC                2.2        1.1     1.1    locally, 80%.
(b) WSARP               1.0        0.5     0.5
(8)  Refund of Project                                  100% of principal amount
Preparation Facility                               and charges outstanding
(a) WSDC                0.7        0.7    --       at effectiveness date.
(9) Unallocated
(a) WSDC                1.2        0.6     0.6
Total                       20.5       10.6      9.9



- 36 -
In addition, Government would provide for local salaries and allowances.
In order to speed up disbursement and because of the large number of small
procurement contracts against which disbursement would be made by IFAD and
IDA, GOS would open two special accounts with the Bank of Sudan. These
accounts would be in foreign exchange in the project's name, one for
transactions with IDA and one for transactions with IFAD. The opening of
these special accounts would be a condition of effectiveness. IDA and IFAD
would each make an initial deposit of USS250,000 into these special
accounts and replenish them periodically. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government at negotiations that the above accounting and auditing
procedures are acceptable.
F. Environmental Impact
3.68      The project is expected to produce a lasting improvement in soil
fertility and vegetative cover throughout the project area. Development of
environment sustaining farming systems became a central feature of WSP-I
and would continue, with strengthening of staff and facilities under
the project. Grain yields would be boosted by use of phosphatic fertilizer
so reducing areas to be planted to produce a given quantity, and forage
legumes would be sown in fallows to enhance restoration of fertility.
Legumes would be sown into range grazing where a measure of grazing control
would ensure their survival. Localized degradation which has been caused
by overgrazing around wateryards would be addressed by several innovative
methods of herd and flock management and ground cover regeneration.
3.69      Management of village herds on the Um Belut model, which has
demonstrated improvements in ground cover and forage yield of 20-40% under
WSP-I, will be replicated to about 15 additional areas. The project will
provide the means to establish large numbers of trees around house
compounds and in arable areas. In the northern section of the project area
large-scale, low-cost range improvement using well adapted trees and shrubs
will aim to regenerate large degraded areas. No farm inputs supplied under
the project would have any adverse effect on the environment. Operation of
boreholes installed or rehabilitated under the project is not expected to
have any effect on the water table in the project area.



- 37 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC)
4.01      As in WSP-I, WSDC would be the executing agency responsible for
planning, coordinating and monitoring the project activities and
implementing a major part of them. An implementation schedule is attached
as Chart 1. WSDC is a public corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources of the Central Government, and has the following
functions:
(i)   to plan and implement integrated rural development in the
Savannah area;
(ii)   to give technical and managerial support to regional or
provincial government departments; and
(iii)   to provide a channel for investments in the Savannah area.
4.02      The Western Savannah Development Corporation Act of 1978 gives
WSDC the necessary local powers to implement the project.  Of particular
relevance to the proposed project are WSDC's powers to:
(i) prepare and implement programs for the improvement of seasonal
grazing and veterinary services;
(ii)   establish the basis and the procedure for assigning land to
individuals and groups;
(iii)   establish training and research centers;
(iv)   improve roads;
(v)   undertake any work and establish any institutions that will help
in implementing WSDC's objectives, including cooperation with
other Government departments;
(vi)   transfer sections of WSDC to the local government or councils
upon completion of the project;
(vii)   expropriate land;
(viii)   enter any public or private land in the project area; and
(ix)   perform scientific research on land.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that the Act
will not be changed, other than to revise the composition of the Board of
WSDC, without consultation with IDA.



- 38 -
4.03      Since its inception in 1978, WSDC has been directed by a Board of
13 Directors including representatives of the Central Government Ministries
of Agriculture; Finance and Economic Planning; the Agricultural Research
Corporation; the Agricultural Bank of Sudan, the Darfur Regional
Government; Local Councils; South Darfur Farmers' Union; and the Cattle
Breeders Association.
4.04      Following the Central Government change in April 1985, the
role and status of Darfur regional authorities and definitions of their
responsibilities have yet to be finalized. Nevertheless in the light of
experience over the last seven years and in order to make provision for the
most beneficial composition of the WSDC Board of Directors during the
project and beyond, GOS stated at project negotiations its intention to
review the composition of the Board forthwith. IDA and IFAD wished to be
assured, in particular, that the project beneficiaries would be adequately
represented on the Board. Following discussion at negotiations, the GOS
delegation stated that the revised membership of the Board of Directors of
WSDC is expected to include representation along the following lines: (a)
the Undersecretary of Agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture; (b) the
Undersecretary of Animal Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture; (c) the
Undersecretary of Planning in the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning; (d) a representative of the ARC; (e) three representatives of the
main beneficiary groups, with one each from wateryard users, project
settlers, and livestock owners in the project area; (f) a representative of
the Regional Government Department of Agriculture; (g) a representative of
the Regional Government Water Authority; (h) the Director-General of the
WSDC; (i) the Director-General of the Jebel Mara prcject; and (j) possibly
a senior representative of the Darfur Regional Administration. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that GOS would carry out the Board membership
review and finalize membership by December 31, 1986.
4.05      To date WSDC has operated within three division:  Agricultural
Services (ASD), Engineering Services (ESD), and Administration and Finance
Division (AFD). A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) outside
these divisions reports directly to the Director General (DG). In
practice, agriculture is the main focus of activity and raison d'etre of
WSDC. During the project, ASD would be redesignated as the Agricultural
Development Division (ADD). The work involved with monitoring and
evaluation would be broadened and split between that concerned with project
implementation and that concerned with project impact. The PMEU would
therefore be designated the Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED). The
primary function of the AFD, ESD and MED would be to provide support and
services to ADD.
4.06      In addition to the Director General, WSDC has 15 senior staff
(Grade 5 and above) including five expatriate consultants in post. The
present Deputy Director General (DDG) has been mainly located in Khartoum
where he has performed primarily in an administrative capacity. Under
the project, a second DDG would be appointed not later than June 30, 1987.
The existing DDG would handle Administration and Services (AFD, ESD and
MED), and the second DDG appointed under the project would be responsible
for Agricultural Development (ADD). The expatriate heads of ADD and MED



- 39 -
would continue in executive positions through the first two years of the
project. Sudanese would be expected to take executive responsibility soon
thereafter, and the expatriates would then become advisors. The DDG
(Admin) would head the Administration and Finance Division until an
appointment is made to that position not later than year 4 of the project.
The ESD would be headed by a Sudanese engineer from the beginning of the
project. Technical assistance staff would be parallel financed between
IDA/IFAD and ODA (Annex 3). TA staff for both WSDC and WSARP would all be
appointed in consultation with IDA, and those to be financed by IDA/IFAD
would be recruited according to IDA guidelines and would have
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained from Government at
negotiations that these provisions are acceptable. Government has also
agreed that any new appointment of DG of WSDC would be made after prior
consultation with IDA.
4.07      The efficiency of resource utilization under the project would be
emphasized by the DG's office and by the MED. Management components which
would receive immediate attention would include:
(a)   Vehicle Operating Costs
Under WSP-I due to frequent disruption to supply of both diesel
fuel and gasoline at Nyala and at Khartoum and to the
unreliability of Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC), WSDC began
collecting fuel from Port Sudan and/or Khartoum by truck in 200-
liter drums. The percentage collected has by 1 progressively
increased. However, this has resulted in a heavy escalation of
fuel cost landed Nyala. In order to overcome this problem, an
assurance has been obtained from GOS that WSDC has arrived at a
practical solution to the transportation of its fuel in bulk by
railway tanker to Nyala, and SRC has undertaken in writing to
fulfill its role in that solution.
During WSP-I, WSDC has used SFD funds to purchase most of its 4x4
landcruiser fleet with gasoline engines. A very real economy can
be achieved by buying and operating diesel-powered vehicles
instead of gasoline-powered vehicles. An assurance has been
obtained from Government at negotiations that all vehicles to be
procured from whatever source of funds under the project would be
diesel powered unless otherwise agreed by IDA on an exceptional
basis.
(b)   Aircraft Operation
Under the project, the aircraft purchased under Credit 834-SU
would be operated by WSARP to provide services to both WSARP and
WSDC. WSARP and WSDC have entered into an aircraft service and
operation contract for that purpose. The charges under that
contract which WSARP will levy for the services it renders to
WSDC will not include capital charges.



- 40 -
(c)   Auditing of WSDC Accounts
IDA has received Audit Reports on WSDC's annual accounts for the
years ending June 30, 1980, 1981, 1982 and 1983. Unaudited
financial statements for WSDC's fiscal year ending June 30, 1984
(in addition to SOE's for quarterly local expenditures during
those years certified by the Auditor General) have been received
by IDA. An assurance was obtained from the Government that
audited accounts for the year up to June 30, 1984 would be
received by IDA not later than December 31, 1985.
4.08      Training would receive greater prominence under the project than
under WSP-I because of the longer project period and the more precise
project goals that can be foreseen for the project. There is now an
established need to expose qualified staff to new technology which is being
increasingly applied to the project, and to retrain and motivate staff who
have become moribund for want of operating opportunity in several
Government departments, but who would be given an active role under the
project. A further important project function would be to train the staff
of traditional tribal institutions and the representatives of project
beneficiaries to play an active role in the policymaking and direction of
project-related councils and associations.
4.09      While each of WSDC's divisions will be responsible for
implementing the training provided for under the project, two training
coordinators will be appointed - one to work with training of staff of
WSDC and the cooperating government agencies, and one to work with training
of project beneficiaries and staff of traditional institutions. The
training schedule foreseen for WSDC and CA staff is shown in Annex 4. The
need for tra4ning members of traditional institutions and beneficiaries in
representation and administration, is now more apparent than the strategy
to achieve it. In order to establish project institutions such as area
councils, settler committees and grazing communities that will continue to
play an effective role beyond the life of the project, it would be
necessary to provide training and guidance on procedural and organizational
improvements. As all the local institutions in need of development and
training relate to WSDC either directly or indirectly through the ADD, a
small Institutional Development Unit (IDU) would be formed in ADD. The
Sudan Academy for Administrative Services (SAAS) would play an active role
in setting up the IDU, and in addition the project provides for a
short-term input of technical assistance for that purpose. The training
program of IDU would be identified by WSDC during the first year of the
project and commence from year 2. The proposed program will be sent to IDA
for review before being implemented by WSDC, and would be clearly
scrutinized by donor review missions during the first two years of project
implementation to ensure a rapid and effective impact to this program.
The Cooperating Agencies
4.10      The South Darfur Provincial Government departments with whom WSDC
had cooperating arrangements under WSP-I were the Veterinary Services
Administration (VSA) including the regional laboratory and research



- 41 -
service, the Range and Pasture Administration (RPA) and the National Water
Corporation (NWC). WSDC also liaised with the Roads and Public Bridges
Corporation in carrying out its limited road improvement progrdm. These
CA's would again feature in the project. In addition, the Agricultural
Extension Department (AED) and the Forestry Department (FD) would become
CA's. While the Soil Conservation, Land Use and Water Planning Department
(SCLUWP) would not be designated a CA under the project, WSDC would
continue to have close liaison with that unit. Under individual annual
work programs agreed with WSDC, the CAs would implement components of the
project. WSDC would monitor these programs, and the continuation of
assistance to the CAs under the proj"ct, whether material or technical,
would depend upon the evaluation of their performance. During WSP-I the RG
has paid the staff salaries of the CAs and has provided annual operating
funds in amounts between LSd 100,000 (RPA) and LSd 750,000 (NWC) to each of
the CAs for expenditures in south Darfur. During the Implementation period
of the proposed project, the CAs would continue to receive this financial
support so as to make project funds incremental to current expenditure.
GOS has provided a written assurance of this continued local funding at
project negotiations.
4.11      MED would assist NWC to assess water supply costs.  NWC, in
consultation with WSDC, would be authorized to decide and set the level of
water charges in the project area, and such water charges would be
increased progressively to reach full economic cost recovery by the end of
project year 3. GOS has agreed to the principal of cost recovery for water
charges and strongly supported it under WSP-I. During the first year of
the project, WSDC in cooperation with local authorities in the project area
would conduct a study to determine how best to maintain the improvement to
water supp' y services achieved under WSP-I. The study would assess the
need to devolve wateryard ownership to communities and financial autonomy
to NWC in the province. It would also examine how water users could
participate in decision making and matters affecting services by NWC.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that the study
would be undertaken not later than June 30, 1987.
4.12      The VSA has been a CA under WSP-I, but coordination of activity
between WSDC and the VSA has been much less than that between WSDC and NWC,
and the incremental output of VSA has therefore been correspondingly less
than that achieved by NWC. The main problem with the VSA has been in its
attitude to stock owners. They are seen as miscreants to be disciplined
and controlled, rather than producers with whom the veterinary service has
to cooperate to overcome the epidemic and endemic livestock diseases and
constraints to production in south Darfur. This attitude is changing, and
a majority of VSA staff now have the vision needed to bring success. In
order to improve their motivation, the project makes provision for the
establishment of private veterinary practices in the project area. It is
essential that the Provincial Veterinary Officer in south Darfur plays a
leading role in forming and monitoring these practices. The Undersecretary
for Animal Wealth, MOA Khartoum already licenses certain veterinarians
employed in field government services to operate as private veterinary
practitioners. They have practiced mainly in and around towns as
clinicians to horses, dairy cattle and pets. Some have been licensed to



- 42 -
operate pharmacies, of which two are located in Nyala and several in other
market towns in the project area. Under the project the responsibility for
veterinary care in southern Darfur will gradually be shifted from what is
now 90% government and 10% private practice, to about 35% government and
65Z private practice. The province will be divided into about six
veterinary operational areas on tribal divisions. Three eastern areas
would serve the Ma'aliya and the Reizigat, and three western areas the
Baggara and other smaller groups.
4.13      In each of these six areas, a private veterinary company or a
single private veterinarian who would employ lay assistants would be
licensed by the MOA to work, charge for services and sell drugs. These
practitioners would initially provide clinical services along predetermined
routes including those used by nomads. It is believed that the
practitioners could build up a profound knowledge of tribal herds and
flocks and would in time be effective in providing advice and services in
commercial animal production, such as use of nutritional supplements and
breeding stock from other regions, as well as animal health. Once a
veterinary practice is well-established which would be in one to two years,
it would take over responsibility for the vaccination program in its area
which initially it would carry out at a contracted price for the MOA. When
private practices had taken over practically all the vaccination programs
in south Darfur, charges for rinderpest and CBPP vaccines would be
introduced (charges are already made by VSA for other livestock vaccines).
4.14      The Provincial Veterinary Officer of the VSA would be responsible
for licensing and supervising the activities of the private veterinary
practitioners, and would define guideline prices for private veterinary
services. In the event that private veterinarians had any grievances
against the VSA, the National Association of Veterinarians would advise MOA
on the merits of the case. As this is a first venture into widespread
private veterinary services, it would be essential to introduce new
procedures gradually and be able to alter course quickly and easily if the
initial proposals need modification or realignment. The Pan-African
Rinderpest Campaign (PARC), which is scheduled to begin operations
throughout tropical Africa including Sudan within the next two yearn, could
impinge on the project programs. WSDC and VSA would endeavour to use the
inputs from PARC only within the project strategy of developing cost
recovery and privatization of services. An assurance was obtained from the
Government at negotiations that a senior veterinarian acceptable to IDA
would be in post as Provincial Veterinary Officer Nyala before Board
presentation.
Annual Work Program
4.15      Preliminary discussions between WSDC's management and donors of
the technical aspects of WSDC's annual work program for the following
fiscal/project year will take place during project supervision within the
period October to December of each year. As in WSP-I, CAs would prepare
their annual work programs, and budgets for work they would perform under
the project, not later than four months before the beginning of the
fiscal/project year. After review by WSDC, these programs and budgets



- 43 -
would also be included by WSDC in the whole project annual work program and
budget. The forecasts of revenues from cost recovery programs under the
project would be included in these budgets. Following GOS's review of and
agreement to the project annual work program and budget, it would be
submitted to IDA for review not later than two months before the start of
the fiscal/project year to which it pertains.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting by WSDC
4.16      The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established under WSP-I would
continue -;nder the project to be headed by an internationally-recruited
Agricul.ural Economist. A Sudanese would take over this responsibility in
year 3 of the project. In addition to the Sudanese Agricultural Economist
currently in post, the unit would be strengthened to include a graduate
Statistician, whose primary responsibility would be to monitor the pace of
project implementation, and assist with mechanical analysis of field data.
The work of this unit would be to:
(i)   design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system to reveal
the pace of project implementation and the efficiency of
management in use of project resources. Key indicators relating
to the Implementation Schedule (Appendix 1) would be used;
lii)   in cooperation with the Head of the ADD, design and implement
programs to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
(a) the various groups of project beneficiaries (settlers,
nomads, sedentary mixed farmers), (b) local institutions, and
Cc) the soils, vegetation and range condition in the project
area;
(iii)   continue and modify with experience the annual farmer production
and economic surveys with province-wide coverage started in
WSP-I;
(iv)   liaise with WSARP, the Jebel Marra Rural Development Project, and
other institutions involved in development of smallholder
agriculture and livestock production in the Savannah to promote
the exchange of experience; and
(v)   coordinate and take the lead role in preparation of semi-annual
progress reports and a project completion report.
Semi-annual progress reports covering that portion of the project
implemented by WSDC wllI be submitted to IDA and IFAD not later than two
months after the completion of each reporting period. A project completion
report will be prepared not later than six months after project completion.
Future Role of WSDC
4.17      In order to achieve sequential project implementation with WSDC
strengthening CA's and local institutions, and progressively expanding
their capacity and impact, it is necessary for GOS to foresee and define
the future of WSDC post project. Such definition would be dependent on the



- 44 -
RG's future status and role in agriculture in South Darfur. The findings
of the current GOS Task Force on Institutions, Credit and Finance (para.
1.06) would also be pertinent to any decision regarding the future of
WSDC. That future could entail inter alia:
(a)   Expansion to include Agricultural Planning and Development as a
regional organization; or
(b)   Maintaining its role as a provincial development agency; or
(c)   Constriction of functions as other institutions are strengthened
by the project with WSDC remaining as a nucleus of specialist
services; or
(d)   Combining the functions of farmers' commercial input and services
supply with provision of specialist government monitoring and
regulatory services related to agricultural development.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that subsequent to the discussion
between GOS and IDA which will follow the report of the Task Force now
working on Institutions, Credit and Finance, GOS would prepare a position
paper on WSDC's future, to be discussed with IDA not later than June 30,
1987.
B. Research Stations at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowazat
4.18      This part of the project will be implemented by the management of
the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) under a separate
Project Agreement. WSARP has reconstructed one research station at
Kadugli, and built three at El Obeid, Ghazala Gowazat and El Fasher with
assistance from IDA under Credit 834-SU and from USAID. The Kadugli
station has been in operation since 1982 and the El Obeid station since
1984. Ghazala Gowazat and El Fasher will be completed about November
1985. While the Government has good prospects of external assistance with
operation of the stations at Kadugli and El Obeid, it has no assistance in
view, other than that to be provided under the project, for the two
stations in Darfur. While the aircraft purchased under Credit 834-SU is a
critical asset in managing and operating the Kordofan stations, it would be
vital for the Darfur stations, just as aircraft services have been vital to
WSDC in implementation of WSP-I.
4.19     WSARP is in close liaison with ICRISAT through their joint
research programs at El Obeid. Both WSARP and WSDC take part in the
ICRISAT cereal trials annually. Staff from the CIMMYT Nairobi office have
regularly given guidance to WSARP in formulation of annual work programs.
WSARP's El Obeid station has been built to serve as a research headquarters
for its four stations and includes facilities, notably laboratories, which
will service all the four units. It is therefore operationally most
efficient that the four units remain under one management. It is equally
important that WSARP, in planning the work programs on Ghazala Gowazat and
El Fasher, maintain a close liaison and interface with WSDC's ADD and
specifically with the work at WSDC's Demonstration Centers, so as to ensure



- 45 -
that the work programs of the two WSARP stations and the WSDC Demonstration
Centers are fully complementary. Both WSARP and WSDC, when their
respective annual research programs in Darfur have been finalized within
their organization, and before the plans are reviewed at any higher level,
will each invite comments from the other. They will also participate
jointly in training workshops for extension staff. After its annual
research programs for the Darfur stations has been approved by the Project
Advisory Committee within Sudan, WSARP will submit those programs to
IDA/IFAD not later than March 31 each project year for comment. The
initial work programs for the research stations at El Fasher and Ghazala
Gowazat was approved by the Project Advisory Committee prior to project
negotiations. WSARP will forward to IDA/IFAD an analysis of its annual
research results at its two Darfur stations not later than January 31 of
the year following that in which the research was done. Furthermore WSARP
will submit a copy of its full annual report to IDA/IFAD no later than 6
months after the end of the reporting period.
C. Mid-Term Review
4.20      GOS would require WSDC to carry out a project mid-term review
together with donors not later than December 1988. This timing would
enable the findings of the review to be implemented in two full growing
seasons within the life of the project. An assurance of the Government's
agreement to this proposal was obtained at negotiations. The main
components of the mid-term review would be:
(i)   Progress in implementation of project components.
(ii)   Performance of cooperating agencies.
(iii)   Proposals by the Government, WSDC or any of the donors concerning
any new direction or compone-nt priority.
(iv)   Training program adjustments.
(v)   Technical assistance realignments.
(vi) Adjustments to cost recovery programs.
(vii)   Adequacy of input supplies.
4.21      Provision is made under the project for 9 man months of TA to
assist WSDC to prepare for the mid-term review. Because of the pilot
nature of some project components including the range and pasture
proposals, the forestry component, the work on Naga'a soils and the
institutional development program, the mid-term review would be of critical
importance in achieving the maximum impact from project funds during the
latter half of the project implementation period.



- 46 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, PRICES AND
RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
A. Production and Yields
5.01      Crop Production.  In the project area, with the exception of an
insignificant area under flood irrigation, dependence on rainfall and
shifting cultivation Is the predominant pattern of land use. In the areas
of sandy soils, people and animals (and therefore arable cultivation) are
dependent on the availability of deep well water which is supplied by NWC
at wateryards. The project will bring about increases in agricultural
production in response to the construction of 11 new wateryards and the
rehabilitation of 54 old wateryards. Through the establishment of a
wateryard maintenance program for all 224 new and existing wateryards in
the project area, increased crop production will be upheld as will the
increased production brought about during WSP-I by rehabilitation of 150
wateryards. Wateryards are operated for 6, 8 or 12 months during the year
depending on availability of surface water in the area. In the case of
yards operating for a six-month period only, which would be the dry season,
cultivation could take place in the wet season by farmers moving
temporarily into the area and leaving at the end of the cropping season
before the dry season begins. No incremental crop production has therefore
been attributed to areas with wateryards which operate for only 6 months in
the year. Significant non-quantifiable benefits do arise however through
the operation of these wells as they form part of a system which, if
maintained, allows for balanced resource use during the dry season and
avoids resource degradation. Availability of well water is essential for
agricultural production in areas where wells are operated over an eight and
twelve month period as no sufficient alternative water sources are
available even during the season of cultivation. Previous experience has
shown that transport of water to these areas is not practical and too
costly. Consequently without a local source of water, land would be at
least partially abandoned. The wateryard maintenance program would sustain
the level of production reached at full rehabilitation and installation of
wateryards.
5.02      To arrive at incremental production, it has been assumed that
wateryard rehabilitation would increase well pumping capacity by 40%, which
would allow a 40% increase of farm families around each well.
Rehabilitation of wateryards would result in a 50% time saving Ln
collecting water and relief of hardship for the families in the area. Most
of these families would have exhausted their land before moving to areas
close to rehabilitated boreholes. As a result of increased water supply in
new land around rehabilitated wateryards, total agricultural output after
adjusting for production foregone at vacated locations would rise by 402.
Likewise, it has been assumed that the maintenance program would prevent
over a ten-year period a decline of the cultivated area to 60% of the 'with
project" situation. No production benefits have been attributed to the 10
wells in urban areas, i.e. Buran, mullus and Ed'Duiem.



- 47 -
Table 14
Area, Yield and Production
With Project
Wateryard Component              Without Project      Full Development
Millet
Area ('000 ha)                     170.10               308.30
Yield (MT/ha)                         .39                  .39
Production ('000 MT)                66.40               120.20
Sorghum
Area ('000 ha)                      10.20                18.iO
Yield (MT/ha)                         .56                  .56
Production ('000 MT)                 5.70                10.40
Groundnut
Area ('000 ha)                      54.40                98.60
Yield (MT/ha)                         .67                  .67
Production ('000 MT)                36.4                 66.1
Vegetable and Misc.
Area ('000 ha)                       3.40                 6.20
Extension and Naga Cultivation
Millet
Area ('000 ha)                       0                   69.60
Incremental Yield (MT/ha)            0                     .16
Production ('000 MT)                 0                   11.5
Sorghum
Area ('000 ha)                       0                    2.5
Yield (MT/ha)                        0                    1
Production ('000 MT)                 0                    2.5
Groundnut
Area ('000 ha)                       0                    1.6
Yield (MT/ha)                        0                     .67
Production ('000 MTO)                0                    1.1
Total Production
Millet                              66.4                131.7
Sorghum                              5.7                 12.9
Groundnut                           36.4                 67.2



- 48 -
5.03      Yields.  Yield estimates are based on cross-sectional data from
the three main areas (Qoz Maliya, QDz Habbaniya and QDz Dango) and research
results obtained on the project's development centers and farmer
demonstration fields. Table 14 above summarizes area, yield and production
in both "with" and "without" project situatlons, and incremental production
is shown in Annex 12, Table 5.
5.04      The population in South Darfur will continue to increase by
immigration as long as drought persists in North Darfur and hostilities in
neighoring countries continue. The population in the project area is
thought to be increasing at 4-5% each year as a result of the influx of
people and natural population increase. Assuming the present population
(400,000) under the wateryard program increases at that current rate during
the project period (1986/87 to 1990/91), the increase in grain production
which would be brought about by project activity would enable current
levels of food intake to be maintained and provide a surplus of about
20,000 tons for marketing to food deficit areas in the province. At full
development (1995/96), the project would yield incremental production of
about 72,000 tons of grain or about 40,000 tons of marketable surplus. The
above increases do not include those which the project would bring about in
groundnut production. These increases are estimated to be 15,000 tons per
year In 1990/91 and 30,000 tons per year by 1995/96.
5.05      Livestock Production.  Both nomadic and sedentary forms of
livestock keeping are prevalent. For both husbandry patterns, the main
impact of the project would progressively be delivered through an improved,
privatized veterinary service. However, fifteen sedentary communities
would benefit from improved range management techniques as well as
veterinary services. By project year 10, 90X of the total herd would be
reached by the private veterinary service. In response, adult mortality of
herds in the project area would decrease by 20%, and calf mortality by
25Z. The combined effect of veterinary services and improved range
management to settled communities demonstrated under WSP-I at Um Belut
would lead to a decrease in adult mortality of 33%, from 6% to 4Z; a
decrease in calf mortality from 25Z to 15%, and an increase in the calving
percentage from 40% to 55%. Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2 summarize the
quantifiable benefits associated with the livestock programs. The program
would result in the increase in offtake of cattle from 210,000 to 240,000
head per annum, an increment of about 5,000 tons of beef. Data is not
available to enable the increase in volume of milk to be assessed. It
would be of similar value to incremental meat production but would be
mostly consumed by the producers. Livestock benefits accruing from the
wateryard program have not been quantified. While these would be
substantial both for the individual producer and society, both from income
generated and resources conserved, quantification of benefits would be
speculative without relevant data.
B. Markets and Prices
5.06      Marketing of all agricultural and livestock produce in the
project area is undertaken by the private sector. Livestock marketing is
considered to be efficient and competitive, and in recent years marketing



- 49 -
and transport of animals to the main consumption center, Khartoum, and for
export mainly tc Egypt and Saudi Arabia, has been facilitated through the
activities of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation. While trade in
crop production would appear to be competitive, marketing margins are high
on account of the difficult road conditions and the remoteness of the
production areas from major wholesale markets. The bulk of cereal grain is
consumed by producers. However, crop prices, most of that traded being
groundnuts, are not subject to any government control. Because of the
relative isolation of Darfur and the annual variability of rainfall prices
fluctuate widely. Except in severe droughts, income from livestock
cue';.;cns income from crops.  Benefit/cost ratios derived from farm budgets
show grain prices are adequate to provide an incentive to increase
production.
5.07      Sudan is a substantial exporter of sorghum in normal rainfall
years; however, South Darfur is a food deficit area and grain is imported
into the region from food surplus areas in the country. Sorghum and millet
are substitutable food grains in the project area; therefore in the
economic analysis the grain price has been taken as the export parity price
at mechanized farming areas in Kosti, the nearest grain surplus area, and
transport and handling costs from Kosti to Nyala have been added. Prices
for the financial analysis, are based on time series data from the Nyala
wholesale market. Adjustments have been made to eliminate the price
effects of the recent drought induced high prices. Prices are expressed in
1985 constant terms. The groundnut price is composed of 25% confectionary
trade groundnuts and 75% Fair Average Quality, reflecting the estimated
relative production of the two groundnut varieties in the area.
Cost Recovery
5.08      Full cost recovery would be introduced for water supply,
veterinary services, provision of farm inputs and tractor hire services.
The Corporation, through its Monitoring and Evaluation Division, would
review on an annual basis, the adequacy of user charges and recommend to
GOS appropriate pricing levels. An assurance was obtained from GOS at
negotiation that full cost recovery mechanism would be introduced by year
three of the project.
5.09      Water charges are currently 2.0 piasters per 4 gallons.  While
this represents a significant increase over the pre-1984 water price, it is
not covering all costs and the generated revenue has not been sufficient to
maintain wateryard services at an optimal level. The full cost recovery
rate at 1985 constant prices is 4.0 piasters per 4 gallons, double the
present rate. With an estimated consumption of 12 gallons per day per
family plus the water for associated livestock, present annual costs for
water would be LSd 108, which will increase to LSd 216 at full cost
recovery charges, leaving an average net cash income of LSd 902 (Annex 8,
Table 3) afte: food consumption needs have been met. The detailed water
charge analysis is shown in Annex 8, Table 2 (Household Water Consumption
and Cost). By project year 5, the percentage share of water payments to
household net cash income, would drop from 19.2 to 8.3% (this includes
water for livestock), reflecting the increased efficiency of the system as



- 50 -
well as the projected relative high domestic crop prices. To fully assess
the real user costs in the with and without cost recovery situation,
account has to be taken of the costs associated with an under-funded and
ineffective service and supply network without the project. Costs to users
would then accrue mainly for the procurement of petrol in the unofficial
market at high prices and the interruption of water supply due to
non-availabllity of spare parts. While it would be difficult to assess
these costs precisely, observations suggest that they exceed rates which
would have to be charged to reach full cost recovery. Cost recovery has
thus important equity implications, as the poorer segments of the
population would not be able to pay excessive fuel and spares charges or
make alternative arrangements such as hauling water. To assure a
continuing cost effective and efficient maintenance and supply system, a
study will be conducted during the first project year by WSDC in
cooperation with beneficiaries and NWC to determine appropriate forms of
cost assessment, ownership of wells and alternative sources of repair and
maintenance services (para. 4.11).
5.10      Veterinary Charges.  The project would facilitate the
establishment of a private veterinary service, and full cost recovery for
drugs and vaccines. Initially charges would be made for clinical treatment
and subsequently when the value of the private service has become apparent
to producers for vaccinations.  The veterinary charge analysis is shown in
Annex 9, Table 2.  In the first two years of operation, financial costs
would exceed financial benefits and vaccination against epidemic diseases
would be done on GOS contract.  Starting from year 3 after introduction of
the project veterinary service plan, cost recovery for all forms of
treatment will be implemented and financial as well as economic benefits
would then outweigh the associated costs.
5.11      Tractor Hire Service.  Cost recovery charges for tractor services
are LSd 44.1 at 1985 constant prices; at which level net cash income per ha
cultivated would be LSd 105.6 as shown in Annex 12, Table 1, Unit Activity
Budget Naga'a-Cultivation.



- 51 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Farmer's Benefits
6.01      Crop Production.  Net farm incomes for 17,000 families will be
maintained at the present level of LSd 1,118.0. Without the project, the
Income of those families is foreseen to fall by about 40X over the next ten
years. Production around rehabilitated wells will increase by 40Z,
Involving 5,760 farm families, and nearly 5,000 families will be settled on
new land. About 17,000 farmers would benefit from the extension program,
consisting of phosphorus application, use of seed dressing, and improved
seed, and animal drawn equipment, the adoption rates of which are shown in
Annex 12, Table 2. Phosphorus application is projected to increase from
120 ha in year 1 to over 65,000 ha in year 10. Seed dressing would have
been adopted by 11,500 farmers on 60,000 ha in project year 5. Project
induced use of seed dressing is forecast to decline thereafter as the
private sector would increasingly undertake provision of the service.
Clean seed would begin to be distributed in project year 3 and cover 6,000
ha by year 5. The adoption rate of animal drawn equipment is projected to
increase from 12 weeder/seeders in year 1 to 1,600 in year 10, with the
principal benefits being expansion of the area under groundnuts, and
because of the timing of cultivations, a significant reduction of peak
season labor requirements. Table 15 shows the benefits attributable to the
major components of the extension package.
Table 15
Comparison of Farm Income
Net Cash Income
Farming System                    (LSd 1985 Constant)
Basic Farming System                                   1,118.0
Benefit from:
a) Use of Phosphorous, Seed Dressing
and Clean Seed                                     1,367.0
b)  Animal-Drawn Equipment                             1,548.0
c) Basic farming system with
combined effects of inputs                         1,797.0
Sorghum cultivated on the non-cracking Naga'a clay-soils under the project
program will cover 2,500 ha with an incremental net income of LSd 106 per
ha per year.
6.02      Livestock Production.  Deferred grazing management techniques to
be introduced in settled communities in combination with an improved
veterinary service will result in an incremental benefit of LSd 328 per
household in year 5. At full development, 15 communities would be involved
in the program. Benefits of the veterinary program on a nomadic household



- 52 -
level are subject to wide variations as herd sizes differ considerably.
Assuming an average herd size of 100 heads of cattle, net incremental
benefits would amount to LSd 681 at full development.
Impact on Women
6.03      It is estimated women contribute up to 50% of agricultural labor
required in grain production and invariably all the labor used in
collecting water for household use and for watering livestock. The
introduction of the weeder/seeder implement in the project area will reduce
the drudgery women undergo in sowing and weeding millet and groundnuts, and
the construction of new and rehabilitation of existing wateryards will
reduce the time spent in collecting water. The time saved will be
available for more productive and less arduous activities (para. 5.02).
B. Economic Benefits and Justification
6.04      The project would increase production of millet, sorghum,
groun4auts and livestock. Food crop production would prevent a further
decline in the region's self-sufficiency, and livestock production will
directly contribute to Sudan's export earnings. At full development, the
net annual incremental benefits (1985 constant prices) would be LSd 51.6
million.
6.05      The project would sustain rural employment of 13.0 million man
days at full development. In addition, 0.7 million man days of rural
employment would be created by an increase of the farming area. In
addition to the above quantifiable benefits, major project intangible
benefits would consist of:
(a)  improvement of the overall use of the natural resources by
re-opening and maintaining areas for crop and livestock
production which were abandoned due to lack of water;
(b)  the contribution of clean water supply to human and animal
health;
(c)  regeneration of range and increase in its carrying capacity in
response to revegetation and re-seeding programs and management
techniques; and
(d)  creation of a self-sustaining farming system, based on integrated
crop/livestock operations.
Partly due to the experimental nature of these programs and partly due to
the inherent difficulties in estimating reliable parameters, no attempt has
been made to quantify those benefits. In addition as a result of the
project's road maintenance activities, transport costs would be reduced,
and Improved roads will increase competition between traders as well as
facilitate farmers' direct access to wholesale markets. The project will
also strengthen the private sector by actively encouraging its involvement
in input supply, provision of private tractor services, manufacturing of
animal drawn equipment and establishment of private veterinary services.



- 53 -
C. Economic Analysis
6.06      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 35%.  The high
economic rate of return reflects the significant amount of sunk capital in
deep wells and the project's aim to increase efficiency of facility and
service operations, primarily by provision of water and veterinary
services.
6.07      The main assumptions used in the economic analysis are as
follows:
(a) Wateryard Program. In the without-project situation, cultivation
would be increasingly concentrated around a decreasing number of
operational yards, thus accelerating resource degradation.
The project's maintenance and rehabilitation program involves
close to 100% of all wells in the province, and a collapse of
that water supply system would reduce production throughout the
project area by 40%. Benefits attributable to wateryard programs
(rehabilitation; new construction and maintenance) are associated
with the incremental water output as a result of the project
(Annex 8, Table 1). In all cases, it is assumed more land will
be brought under crop production with existing cropping patterns
(Table 14). Contributions of each activity in the wateryard
program to the total incremental area and production at full
development is indicated in Annex 12, Table 4 and summarized in
Annex 12, Table 5. Para. 5.01 provides assumptions used in
computing additional land for cropping.
(b) Prices. Export parity prices are used for groundnuts and
livestock, import parity prices are used for fertilizers and
petroleum products. Prices for food grain are based on export
parity prices. Export prices of sorghum to Saudi Arabia range
between US$180 and 210 per ton FOB Port Sudan. The variation In
price reflects the supply situation at any one time. This year
in particular, sorghum prices have been high because of the
drought conditions in the producing areas supplying the Middle
East. All prices are based on the 'World Bank Commodity Price
Forecasts' (updated January 1985). In the economic analysis,
however, a conservative price of US$174 per ton has been used to
reflect the prices of grains forecast in those projections.
Millet is not a traded commodity however, as millet and sorghum
are close substitutes, the economic price of millet has been set
equal to that of sorghum. All foreign costs and benefits are
valued at the exchange rate of US$1.00 to LSd 2.5. The local
currency component of all incremental costs and benefits has been
converted to a border price expressed in local currency, using a
standard conversion factor of 0.6. A shadow wage rate of 50% of
the market rate has been assumed.
(c) Project Life. The economic life of the project is assumed to be
10 years. Replacements of project assets with economic lives
shorter than that period are included.



- 54 -
D. Risks
6.08      Major risks for project success arise out of the tenuous overall
economic situation of the country. In particular, shortages of imported
inputs, and an inefficient logistical support system may result in delays
to project implementation and cost overruns. Another risk is the uncertain
role, capacity and degree of cooperation which the project can stimulate in
traditional leaders and local elected authorities. Similarly output from
the cooperating agencies could vary widely, indeed as it did in WSP-I. It
will be heavily dependent on government employees over whom WSDC has little
direct control. The biggest technical risk is in the range seeding program
which will use untried technology. However, no economic benefit has been
assumed from that component, and if it fails completely it would not
jeopardize the success of other components or the project as a whole.
Measures against such risks included in the project are a strong training
component, project financing of imported incremental recurrent inputs,
privatization of the veterinary service and a study of how best to maintain
the improvement to water supply services achieved under WSP-I.
E. Switching Values and Sensitivity Analysis
6.09      Inspite of the safeguards provided in the project and the proven
strong performance of management, the risks mentioned above could
materialize to varying degrees. To estimate how resistant the project
would be to such risks, a number of sensitivity tests were carried out.
These are summarized below:
Test                         ERR
Total Cost up 20%                  27.0X
Total Benefits down 20%            25.3%
Benefits delayed 2 years           19.8%
Costs up 20%
Benefits delayed 2 years           15.5Z
The project is sensitive to reduction and/or delayed benefits but not to
the extent of reducing the economic rate of return below the opportunity
cost of capital, estimated at 13.5, even when costs are up by 20% and
benefits delayed by 2 years. The switching values test shows that benefits
would have to decrease by 36Z or costs increase by 64Z for the net present
value of the project discounted at 13.5% to be zero.



- 55 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT,
THE FUND AND THE ASSOCIATION
7.01      During project negotiations, assurances were given that:
(a)   GOS would make proposals to implement land tenure in South Darfur
to be discussed with IDA/IFAD not later than June 30, 1987
(para. 3.10).
(b)   GOS would consult WSDC before taking any major land use decisions
concerning South Darfur during the life of the project (para.
3.10).
(c)   Triple superphosphate and rock phosphate have been included in
the list of fertilizers approved for importation (para. 3.27).
(d)   WSDC would be authorized by the Government to engage private
commercial auditors to audit its annual accounts and to certify
quarterly SOEs under WSP-II (para. 3.66).
Ce)   The Western Savannah Development Corporation Act of 1978 would
not be changed, other than to revise the composition of the Board
of Directors of WSDC, without consultation with IDA/IFAD (para.
4  02).
(f)   Following agreement at negotiations on the project beneficiary
representation on WSDC's Board of Directors, GOS will carry out a
WSDC Board membership review and appoint a new Board of Directors
not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 4.04).
(g)   TA staff for both WSDC and WSARP would all be appointed in
consultation with the Association and those to be financed by
IDA/IFAD would have qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to IDAIIFAD (para. 4.06).
(h)   A second Deputy Director General of WSDC to head the Agricultural
Development Division would be appointed not later than June 30,
1987 (para. 4.06).
(i)   All vehicles, to be procured by WSDC ar    ARP under the project
from whichever source of funds, would *e diesel powered unless
otherwise agreed by the Association on a.i exceptional basis
(para. 4.07).
(j)   An agreement has been reached between WSDC and the Western Sudan
Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) to facilitate the use by
both WSARP and WSDC of the WSARP aircraft which was purchased
under Credit 834-SU (para. 4.07).
Ck)   SRC has agreed to facilitate the transport of WSDC's fuel In bulk
by railway tanker to Nyala (para. 4.07).



- 56 -
(1) The audited financial accounts of Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC) for the years 1983/84 will be forwarded to IDA
by December 31, 1985. These accounts are completed and are
presently being audited (para. 4.07).
tm)   MOFEP has agreed to maintain support to the project cooperating
agencies so that project funds would be incremental to current
inputs (para. 4.10).
(n)   A study would be undertaken by WSDC not later than June 30, 1987
to determine how best to maintain the improvement to water supply
services in South Darfur which has taken place during WSP-I
(para. 4.11).
(o)   A Senior Veterinarian acceptable to IDA would be in post as
Provincial Veterinary Officer, Nyala before Board presentation
(para. 4.14).
(p)   GOS would prepare a position paper on WSDC's future post project
to be discussed with IDA/IFAD not later than June 30, 1987
(para. 4.17).
(q)   The initial work program for the WSARS Darfur Research Stations
at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowazat (which will be funded together
with WSARP aircraft operation under the project) has been
approved by the WSARP Project Advisory Committee (para. 4.19).
Cr)  GOS would require WSDC to carry out a project mid-term review
together with donor representatives not later than December 31,
1988 (para. 4.20).



- 57 -                          Annex 1
Page 1
Project-Related Institutions
1.        The Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) was
incorporated on March 25, 1978, as a Public Corporation under the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) of the Government of Sudan (GOS). Its main functions
were to plan and implement, either directly or indirectly, the first
Western Savannah Project (WSP-I) and, under a separate administrative
arrangement, the Jebel Marra Rural Development Project (JMRDP). It can
also be given responsibility for future development projects. While WSDC
was to be the primary implementing agency of WSP, some indirect
implementation was to be carried out through CoOper.Rting Agencies (CAs).
In WSP-I, these CAs were the National Water Corporation (NWC), the
Veterinary Services Administration (VSA), and the Range and Pasture
Administration (RPA). Under WSP-I, the CAs prepared detailed annual
programs and budgets for the activities performed, then carried out these
works to WSDC's specifications using their own labor force and equipment,
with WSDC providing any additional equipment, materials and supplies needed
and paying any field allowances involved, but not salaries.
2.        WSP-I was set up and financed as a national project (as would be
the proposed WSP-II). The CAs and WSDC were administered through the
Provincial Commissioner of South Darfur. Under these arrangements, the
relationships between WSDC and CAs and the legal agreements of WSP-I and
the WSDC Act and By-Laws were relatively direct and clear. However in
1980/81, the Government of Sudan reorganized its administration on a
regional basis. The provinces of North and South Darfur were reunited as
Darfur Region with the capital at El Fasher.
3.        Regional and Provincial Authorities.  Between 1981 and the change
of Sudan's Central Covernment in April 1985, Darfur region had its own
government comprising a Governor, two Provincial Commissioners, a Deputy
Governor and six Ministries. At the provincial level in South Darfur, four
of these Ministries were represented by 13 departments or administrations,
nine of which belonged to the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MOANR), two to the Ministry of Housing, Water and Public Utilities
(MHWPU), and one each to the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP), and
the Ministry of Public Services (MPS). The two remaining ministries were
the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Assembly Affairs.
Following the changes in-Government in April 1985 (during Project
Appraisal), the future status and functions of these units is unclear.The
following sections describe the RG and Provincial structures and their
linkages with GOS as they were between 1981 and 1985.
4.        The MOANR controlled the following Provincial Departments:
Soil Conservation, Land Use and Water Planning (SCLUWP),
Range and Pasture Administration (RPA),
Forestry (FD),
Agricultural Production (APD),
Veterinary Services Administration (VSA),
Animal Production (APD),
Horticulture,



- 58 -                         Annex l
Page 2
Agricultural Extension (AED), and
Crop Protection (CPD).
5.        The titles of these provincial-level departments broadly defined
their prescribed function, but not necessarily their current activities.
For instance, SCLUWP is currently engaged in cheesemaking and beekeeping.
All these offices have been seriously short of operating funds and
development capital. Salaries and allowances have been met, but the staff
have had no facilities or funds with which to fulfill their
responsibilities. In this sense they have been over-staffed, but there
have been important senior staffing gaps because postlngs to this remote
area with few modern facilities have been unpopular among experienced civil
servants. Not surprisingly, staff morale is low, but the prospects of
being able to participate in a meaningful work program and receive the
resources needed to do this solicits an eager response from most
departmental staff.
6.        The two MHWPU provincial-level offices were the National Water
Corporation (NWC) and the Roads and Public Bridges Corporation
(RPBC). NWC participated successfully in WSP-I as a CA. Both NWC and RPBC
have some, if limited, facilities, and NWC, whilst previously short of
operating and development budgets, was allocated sufficient funds
by the Regional Government to fulfill its role in WSP-I. The demands in
wateryard rehabilitation placed on NWC-Nyala under WSP-I were heavy but
were facilitated by the mutual agreement to appoint a NWC-WSDC
coordinator. Whilst NWC reported to El Fasher, some NWC-Khartoum links
remain, as Central Government still contributes towards the salaries of
some senior NWC-Nyala staff, and NWC-Nyala calls on NWC-Khartoum for expert
help. The salary link provides a useful career link with the NWC parent
body.
7.        MOFP was represented in Nyala by a Cooperative Department.  This
department has been responsible for forming, registering and servicing
cooperatives and whilst short of staff, facilities and operating and
development funds, continued to achieve the registration of many
cooperatives, but had difficulty in providing any follow-up service.
Registered Credit Cooperatives could receive NOFP guaranteed loans from the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS), provided their individual members had no
history of poor repayments, but so far no such loans have been made. MPS
was responsible for providing health and education services. It had an
office in Nyala and was the entity to whom requests for village-level
teachers and medical clinic attendants had to be made provided that
villagers concerned could provide local buildings for schools, clinic huts
and housing.
8.        The Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) is a national entity with an
active office in Nyala which is well-placed to handle the seasonal credit
needs of project participants. It is less well-placed to meet medium-term
credit needs for some items (for example tractors) because of collateral
requirements. However, where such needs exist, credit could be provided on
a custom basis by Nyala-based businessmen/entrepreneurs using their own
funds or commercial credit as is currently the case with the market (suk)
trucks used for local village input supplies and output marketing.



- 59 -                         Annex I
Page 3
Traditional Authorities
9.        After 1916 the Sudan Condominium Government of the United Kingdom
and Egypt adopted and formalized the traditional tribaY governing
structures which then existed and directed them in the execution of civil
and judicial functions, so that Government authority applied uniformly over
Darfur to sedentary and nomadic communities. Each tribal head or Nazir was
assisted by Omdas, executives who conducted locai courts and acted as
spokesmen and negotiators with other groups over matters of land, grazing
and water rights. Sheikhs were executives at more local or village levels
and with a variety of duties including land allocation, tax collection and
responsibilities for the poor and infirm. In fact, the duties of the
traditional tribal leaders were then very broad. In addition to the
requirements of law and order and tax collection, they were expected to
implement a range of laws and regulations relating to the use and
conservation of the environment. Through their local courts these
authorities could hear cases concerned with criminal, civic and
environmental issues, and could award prison sentences, fines and
compensation for damages.
10.       In order to encourage greater population participation in local
government and administration, the 1951 local Government Act provided for a
hierarchy of elected councils which were subject to close supervision by
the District Commissioners who represented Central Government. The 1961
Local Government Act essentially endorsed the 1951 Act but gave more weight
to Provincial authorities. That act endured until 1971, when the Peoples'
Local Government (PLG) Act was introduced. Among the objectives of this
Act were the democratization of local government and the curbing of ethnic
politics whtch were a major influence in the traditional leaders' conduct
of public affairs. To these ends the traditional authorities were deprived
of virtually all their former powers, except for the unpopular task of tax
collection. Most of their functions were assigned to the district, rural
and village councils. However, the PLG Act reduced but did not destroy the
lfluence of the traditional authorities. Many retained a strong hold over
the allocation of land rights and kept much of their former prestige as
tribal leaders, but others were held in low esteem and were regarded in
their communities as mere tax collectors.
11.       By 1984 it had become evident that local government without the
tribal authorities was not effective. The increasing incidence of tribal
conflicts, especially between nomads and cultivators, could not be
contained. With few exceptions rural and village councils did not develop
as able institutions of local government, but only as channels for the
distribution of supplies. Deprived of their wider powers Sheikhs were
inefficient tax collectors. In June 1984 the Deputy Regional Governor of
Darfur issued an order which effectively reinstated the traditional
authorities with their pre-1971 powers. Nazirs would henceforth receive a
salary of LSd 100 per month, Omdas LS50 per month and Sheikhs 20% of the
tax they collected.
12.       It is less than a year since the traditional authorities in
Darfur were reinstated, and too soon to assess the effect of this order.
WSDC is concerned primarily with issues relating to land use and tenure,



- 60 -                          Annex 1
Page 4
which have always been the province of the traditional authorities, even
following the 1971 PLG Act. The settlement program and the nomadic and
sedentary range management programs are radical departures from customary
land use practices and tenurial norms. All of these ventures will require
the commitment and active support of the traditional leaders if they are to
survive after the project and especially if they are to be replicated.
13.       Circumstances have made it necessary so far for WSDC to work
primarily through the district councils in establishing the settlements,
although tribal authorities have been closely involved in development of
grazing schemes, particularly in the nomad community. The tribal
authorities were not recognized officially until very recently, and their
current official status is still unclear. It will be necessary, however,
as the project proceeds for increasing attention to be paid by WSDC to the
involvement of the beneficiaries through their traditional authorities in
the management of these programs. This will require a range of aptitudes
and skills not previously required of tribal leaders, and a training
component has accordingly been included in the project (para. 3.31) to
address these needs.
Elected Councils
14.       In their present form district, rural and village councils date
from 1951, though they were considerably extended in number and powers
after the 1971 PLG Act. Since regionalization in 1981, district councils
relate directly to the Regional Council, by-passing the Provisional tier,
though a Provincial Land Use Committee does exist in Nyala. WSDC has
established a working relationship with the district councils, especially
those of Eastern, Southern and South Western districts, where most WSP-I
activities are in progress.
15.       District Councils have an executive director and at least three
executive officers appointed by the regional government. They normally
include about six women and have representatives from the rural councils,
plus a number of appointed mtLbers. Sub-committees include Finance,
Development, Land Use and Water. Membership of the councils is frequently
made up more of merchants and the educated employed, rather than full-time
farmers and stock-keepers. The former may also farm and own livestock but
often on a commercial scale. Therefore district councils are sometimes
divided in their support for the demands of the rural population as against
those of the merchants and professional classes, especially over issues
concerning land allocation, rights of way for nomads, and water supplies.
The Land Use Sub-Committee deals with applications for land under 200
feddans, while applications for larger holdings have been referred to the
Minister in El Fasher. Most of these applications are for purposes of
mechanized and other commercial farming, and more recently for
WSDC-controlled settlements.
16.       Rural councils are similar in structure and function to District
councils. They consist of delegates from village councils, government
appointees and departmental heads where departments are represented at this
level. The executive officer of the council is a regional government



- 61 -                          Annex I
Page 5
appointee. Rural councils receive taxes collected by the traditional
authorities, passing them on to the District council and thence to the
Regional government. They also maintain law and order through the local
police force, they distribute supplies to the village and nomad councils,
they issue trading licenses, and allocate building sites in the towns.
Rural Councils do not allocate land and play very little part in
development planning or implementation. They are, however, much closer to
the farming community than the district councils and with their fiscal,
commercial and administrative experience could potentially play an
important role in the management of rural development.
17.       Although Rural Councils are elected by the village and nomadic
communities and were originally intended as the foundation of a democratic
system of local government, they have few regular functions apart from that
of distributing supplies, especially sugar and sorghum. They have no paid
staff or appointed officials. At times they have reputedly taken the
initiative in procuring fuel or spare parts for watervards, but it is often
unclear whether the council itself or an ad hoc group of prominent
villagers who also happen to be council members have done this. Many
village councils are defunct and there are plans to organize new elections
in 1985 in an attempt to revive them. Nomad councils are in general even
less active. Under the project, it is intended at the controlled
settlements around wateryards to hold elections for settler councils
equivalent to village councils. These are foreseen to be responsible for
local land allocation, for ensuring that the stipulated rotations are
followed, subdivision of holdings is controlled, grazing is managed, local
disputes are settled, the wateryard managed and maintained, and for other
civic functions. However these are unprecedented responsibilities for a
council at this level, and training of council staff under the project
would be essential (para. 3.31).



- 62 -                         Annex 2
Page 1
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT, PHASE II
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED RESIDENT STAFF
A. For WSDC
1. ,3enior Agriculturalist
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 4 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agriculture
Experience:  Minimum of 10 years experience in tropical agriculture,
including in livestock production in semi-arid areas of developing
countries. Experience in experimental agriculture would be an added
advantage.
Position- Head of Agricultural Development Division of the Western
Savannah Development Corporation tWSDC), reporting initially to its
Director General and from about year 3 to its Deputy Director General
(Technical).
Responsibilities:
(a)  Senior Agricultural Advisor to the Director General and
responsible for the overall management of the Agricultural
Services Division.
(b) Responsible for planning and implementation of WSDC's veterinary
and livestock production programs including coordination and
liaison with the provincial Range and Pasture Administration, the
provincial Forestry Department, the provincial Veterinary
Services Department, and the Trypanasomiasis Control Unit.
(c) Planning work programs together with the Agronomist/Extension
Specialist for three Development Centers (trial farms) including
crop trials, testing of animal-drawn equipment, and Naga'a
cultivation program.
(d) Planning work programs together with the Range and Pasture
Specialist for WSDC's settlement pasture and sedentary and nomad
range development, seed production center and forestry
rehabilitation.
(e) Training program for WSDC's agricultural staff including his
successor, informal training of farmers and pastoralists and
development of traditional institutions in the project area.



- 63 -                         Annex 2
Page 2
(f) Preparation of semi-annual and annual reports of activities of
the ADD.
2.   Agronomist/Extension Specialist
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agriculture.
Experience: Minimum of 6 years experience in tropical agriculture
including experience in experimental crop production in semi-arid
areas of a developing country. Experience and/or training in
agricultural extension to smallholders would also be ensential.
Position: Advisor on Crop Agronomy and Extension to WSDC reporting to
the Head of the Agricultural Development Division.
Responsibilities:
(a) Design, implementation and evaluation, together with the Range
and Pasture Specialist, of crop and forage rotations on the
Development Centers at Dimsu, Jumeiza and Umm Rakumba, and on
WSDC's settlement schemes.
Cb) Extension of technical messages learned at the Development Center
first to farmers in WSDC's settlements and second to other
farmers in the project area.
(c) Liaison with WSARP particularly at Ghazala Gowazat to Ci) make
staff of WSDC's ADD fully aware of research being undertaken and
results achieved at Ghazala Gowazat, and (ii) feed WSARBP with
WSDC's opinions, based on field perceived production constraints,
regarding priorities for research programs to be carried out at
Ghazala Gowazat.
(d) Advice on external training programs, and planning and
implementation of training programs within WSDC both for staff,
including his successor, and for farmers.
(e) The above functions may be adjusted and/or extended as the need
arises.
3.   Range and Pasture Specialist
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agriculture or Range Science.



- 64 -                         Annex 2
Page 3
Experience: Minimum of 4 years experience in tropical agriculture
including experience in semi-arid pasture and forage production.
Experience in grass and legume, seed production and marketing and/or
forestry in arid lands would be an advantage.
Position: Advisor on Range and Pasture Development to WSDC reporting
to the Head of the Agricultural Development Division.
Responsibilities:
(a) Design, implementation and evaluation, togetler with the
Agronomist/Extension Specialist, of crop and forage rotations on
WSDC's Development Centers.
(b) Implementation of range improvement peripheral grazing areas of
WSDC's settlement areas.
(c) Implementation of grazing routines and seeding techniques on
sedentary and nomadic pastures to improve production from areas
where tenurial rights have been or will be established.
Cd) Provision of appropriate data to MED to facilitate the monitoring
of rangeland condition and trend.
Ce) Design, construction and operation of the WSDC Seed Production
Center. Initiation of contract pasture seed production by local
farmers and pastoralists.
(f) Liaison with the RPA and FD on all project activities at all
times.
(g) Advice on external training programs and planning and
implementation of training programs within WSDC both for staff,
including his successor, and for farmers.
(h) The above functions may be adjusted and/or extended if the need
arises.
4.   Financial Controller
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration: 5 years from April 1, 1986
Qualifications: Qualified Public Account
Experience: At least three years experience in developing countries.
Ability to read Arabic would be an added advantage.
Position: Head of the Finance Section of the Administration and
Finance Division of the Western Savannah Development Corporation
(WSDC), reporting to the Division Head, who is Deputy Director General
(Admin).



- 65 -                         Annex 2
Page 4
Responsibilities:
(a) Operation of WSDC's accounting system to record all financial
inputs of the Corporation's activities, and reveal the use to
which funds are put from various sources.
(b) Preparation of WSDC's annual financial statements for audit.
(c) Conversion of WSDC's accounting procedure to a computer-operated
cost accounting system which will reveal variable costs monthly
and facilitate efficient, cost-effective use of resources.
td) Further development and operation of WSDC's revolving funds and
with NWC VSA.
(e) Further development and operation of WSDC's stores management.
(f)  Implementation of WSDC's procurement activities.
(g) Preparation of an operating manual for corporate accounts,
budgeting and cash flow statements, donor funds administration,
procurement, stores administration and cost accounting.
(h) Advice to NWC on appropriate water charges and accounting
systems.
(i) Training of the Sudanese staff in all the above aspects of WSDC
work.
(j) The above functions may be adjusted and/or extended as the need
arises.
5.   Agricultural Economist
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years starting April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agricultural Economics
Experience: Minimum of 6 years experience in developing countries.
Some knowledge of spoken Arabic would be an advantage.
Position: Head of the Monitoriug and Evaluation Division of the
Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC), reporting to its
Deputy Director General (Admin).
Responsibilities:
(a) Establish and implement procedures for periodic assessment of the
pace of project implementation by the comparison of achievements
against a time frame of predetermined criteria. This would
involve routine reporting to the Government and donors.



- 66 -                         Annex 2
Page 5
(b) Develop and Implement procedures for monitoring (i) acceptancb of
project proposals and produ_tion recommendations by project
beneficiaries, and (iI) by the effects of the project on
beneficiaries and on gross output from the project area.
(c) Establish, together with the Senior Agriculturalist, procedures
to monitor and evaluate the impact on soil fertility and range
condition of (i) project activities, (ii) the increase in
population in Snuth Darfur during the last five years, and (iii)
mechanized farming schemes in South Darfur which are unconnected
with project activity.
(d) Assist the Senior Agriculturalist to formulate and monitor goals
for the project Cooperating Agencies.
(e) Take the lead responsibility for preparation of semi-annual and
annual reports. Reports on the activities of other divisions
would be the responsibility of the heads of those divisions. The
Agricultural Economist would blend the reports into cohesive
documents to reflect the work of the Corporation on a whole.
Cf) Train staff of the M&E Division in monitoring, evaluation and
planning procedures, and his successor in management of the MED.
Cg) The above functions may be adjusted and/or extended as the need
arises.
6.   Mechanical Engineer
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from July 1, 1986
Qualification: Graduate in Mechanical Engineering; MIME
Experience: 10 years' post-graduate experience in mechanical
engineering, of which at least 4 years in workshop management; at
least 2 years working in a developing country. Experience in civil
construction would be an added advantage.
Position: Head of the Mechanical and Workshop Section of the
Engineering Services Division, reporting to the Head of the
Engineering Services Division of the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC).
Responsibilities:
(a) Engineering advice to the WSDC on the overall operation of
engineering services.
(b) Design and supervision of construction and equipping of WSDC's
new mechanical workshop.



- 67 -                         Annex 2
Page 6
(c) Installation, mair':enance and operation of all WSDC machinery and
plant, including electricity generators.
(d) Management of WSDC's fleet of about 150 vehicles of various
types.
(e) Advice on external training programs and conducting of on-the-job
training of divisional staff, Including the Chief Mechanical
Engineer.
(f) The above functions may be adjusted and/or extended as the need
arises.
7.   Systems Operation Manager
Location: Nyala, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 2 years from July 1, 1986
Qualification: Graduate in Mechanical Engineering, MIME; training in
accountancy or management systems.
Experience: 10 years post-graduate experience in mechanical
engineering, of which at least 2 years working in a developing
country.
Position: Advisor on development and maintenance of NWC's project
water supply systems, reporting to the Head of the Engineering
Services Division of WSDC through the NWC Coordinator in WSDC.
Responsibilities:
(a) Planning advice on NWC's use of resources including workshop
facilities, machinery, material and manpower.
(b) Design and initiation of a maintenance program for the 224
wateryards in the project area.
(c) Design and testing of a vehicle maintenance routine in NWC.
(d)  Design and operation of a cost accounting system for all NWC
operations in the project area which will enable NWC to identify
(i) capital and maintenance costs of water supplies to project
beneficiaries; (ii) how economics in those costs can be made; and
(iii) how capital replacement of wateryards can be provided for.
(e) Assist WSDC to prepare a study on how best to ensure the
continuation of improved water supplies in the project area, and
how project beneficiaries can participate in management of water
supply services.



- 68 -                         Annex 2
Page 7
(f) Train staff of NWC in work planning, inventory management and
cost accounting.
(g) The above functions to be adjusted and/or extended as the need
arises.
B. For WSARP
8.   Soil and Water Conservation Specialist
Locationr Ghazala Gowazat, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 5 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agriculture
Experience: Minimum of 4 years experience in agricultural crop
research in semi-arid areas with emphasis on harvesting and use of
water. Experience of farming systems research and/or developing
country agriculture would be an advantage.
Position: Research Specialist reporting to the Director of WSARP. (A
Sudanese scientist would have responsibility for staff
administration).
Responsibilities:
Program Leader in a farming systems research team of 5-7 scientists
each of a discipline within or allied to agriculture and which is
pertinent to production in South Darfur. The predominant system is
sedentary cropping with some livestock. About 20Z of population are
nomads or transhumants. The program will:
(a) Identify agriculture production constraints.
(b) Conduct on-station and on-farm research to produce technical
solutions to the identified constraints.
(c) Examine new technologies, for example, small-scale irrigation,
for applicability in South Darfur.
(d) Make available to farming communities the results of the research
conducted, through Government departmental and project services
operating in the province.
The Program Leader will liaise closely with Government agricultural
services in South Darfur and particularly with the ADD in WSDC both in
formulating annual work programs and in disseminating information. In
anticipation of handing over his responsibilities to a Sudanese
scientist during year 3 of the project, he will, if that successor is
identified, fully instruct him verbally and in writing in the modus



- 69 -                         Annex 2
Page 8
operandi of the position. If his successor is not identified in good
time before he leaves, he will prepare and leave full handing over
instructions to ensure a smooth work flow after his departure from the
project.
9.   Animal Scientist
Location:  Ghazala Gowazat, South Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Animal Science or Agri:ulture with Livestock
Production as a major specialization.
Experience: Minimum of 3 years experience in livestock production or
in integrated livestock/crop research in a semi-arid environment.
Experience in a developing country would be an advantage.
Position: Research Specialist reporting to the Ghazala Gowazat
Program Leader.
Responsibilities:
Member of a farming systems research team of 5-7 scientists whose
collective responsibilities are listed above in the TORs of the
Program Leader. In addition to the constraints to land and animal
productivity and farmers incomes which are identified under the
project, the Animal Scientist would be concerned with:
(a) the existing and potential contribution which domestic livestock
make or could make to soil fertility and range vegetation.
.b)  Identification of innovative technology which could escalate
productivity in South Darfur and adapt such technology to the
farming systems which are practiced in the province.
(c) Ensuring an effective hand over to his successor.
10. Animal Scientist
Location: El Fasher, North Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Animal Science or Agriculture with Livestock
Production as a major specialization.
Experience: Minimum of 3 years experience in livestock production
with at least 2 years research experience in an arid environment.
Some experience with camels and/or desert sheep and goats would be a
further requirement, and developing country exposure would be an
advantage.



- 70 -                         Annex 2
Page 9
Position:  Research Specialist reporting to the Director of WSARP (A
Sudanese Scientist would have responsibility for station
administration).
Responsibilities:
Program Leader in a farming systems research team of 5-7 scientists
each of a discipline within or allied to agriculture and which is
pertinent to production in North Darfur. The predominant system is
nomadic pastoralism on the desert fringe. Cropping is limited by low
precipitation but there is potential for innovative minor irrigation
from underground water. The program will:
(a) Identify production constraints.
(b) Conduct off-station with within-herd/on-farm research to produce
technical solutions to the identified constraints.
gc) Make available to pastoral and farming communities the results of
the research conducted through Government, departmental and other
agency services operating in the province.
The Program Leader will liaise closely with Government Agricultural
Services in North Darfur.   In anticipation of completing his
assignment, he will prepare and leave full handing over instructions
to ensure a smooth work flow after his departure from the project.
11. Agricultural Economist
Location: El Fasher, North Darfur, Sudan
Duration of Assignment: 3 years from April 1, 1986
Qualification: Degree in Agricultural Economics.
Experience: Minimum of 3 years experience in a developing country.
Ability to speak arabic.
Position:  Researcher reporting to the El Fasher Program Leader.
Responsibilities:
Member of a farming systems research team of 5-7 scientists whose
collective responsibilities are listed above in the TORs of the
Program Leader. In addition, the Agricultural Economist would, as
necessary, give economic guidance to and analyze material for the
Research team based at Ghazala Gowazat.
In the course of his work in North Darfur, the Agricultural Economist
would:



- 71 -                          Annex 2
Page 10
(a) Develop procedures for data collection and evaluation in
livestock and crop production and rural sociology.
(b) Liaise with the Government Range and Pasture Administration to
monitor range condition and trend.
(c) Develop procedures to evaluate costs and benefits of Government
actions to reverse desert creep in South Darfur.
(d) Develop procedures to evaluate the economic worth of the private
and Government mechanized farming schemes in North and South
Darfur. The long term effect of these schemes on land fertility
would also be assessed.
During the last few months of his contract, he would take steps to
ensure an effective transition to his successor.



- 72 -                        Annex 3
Table 1
Technical Assistance in Man Years
Project Years
Under
PPF      1       2      3      4     5
A.  To WSDC
Resident Staff
+   Financial Controller               0.75     1       1         1     1     1
+   SNR Agriculturalist                0.75     1       1         1     1
x   Agronomist/Extension Sp.           -        1       1         1    -
+   Range and Pasture Sp.              -        1       1         1    -
x   Mechanical Engineer                -        1       I         1    -
x   Systems Operations Manager         -        1       1          -
+   Economist PMEU                     0.75     1       1         1
Short-Term Staff
x   Land Use Planner                   -        I      -        -
x   Civil Engineer                     -        1      -        --
x   Mechanical Engineer
onsultant (NWC)                 -         0.3     0.3   0.30
x   Extension Specialist               -        1       0.50  0.50
+   Livestock Specialist               -        0.25    0.25    -
+   Forage Seed
Production Expert                         0.25    0.25    -
x   Sociologist                        -        0.30    0.30  0.30
+   Institutional
Development Specialist          -         0.75    0.50    -
B. To WSARP
Resident Staff
+   Animal Scientist                   -        2       2         2
+   Soil and Water
Conservation Specialist      .  -         1       1        1
+   Economist                          -        1       1         1
During the period between WSP-I and WSP-II, ODA w'il continue their WSP-I
input supplying a Land Use Planner, an Agronomist and a Civil Engineer to
WSDC as resident staff.
+   Funded by IDA/IFAD.
x   Funded by ODA.



- 73 -                          Annex 4
Table I
Training Schedule
(Number of Trainees)
Courses
2/3 Years        1 Year         3/4 Months        3/4 Months
Overseas        Overseas        Overseas          in Sudan
WSDC
ADD                           8                14                27
IDU         -                -                  5                -
ESD         -                 1                 3                 8
AFD         -                 1                 3                30
MED                          -                 -                  2
WSARP          2               -                 10
On-site courses by international trainers in Sudan.
For ADD, 4 courses; for ESD, I course.
On-site courses by WSDC senior staff for WSDC junior staff and
farmers/stock ownors.
2,000 man/weeks
Provision is made for on-site institutional development training which will
be defined during project year 1.
Fifty-three extension agents will be trained by WSDC staff at Development
Centres.



-74                                          Annex 5
Pape I
mm
WESTER SAISH PROJECT II
9Ami, Accuns by Year
(LSd '000)
Ba  Costs                      Fomiga Exehade
86/87   87/88   9/99   89/90   90/1   Total         Z    Am_nt
I. IIIUESTINT COSTS
A. CIVIL MRS                          3,456*.0 2,921.1  1P702.2 1,469.1   314.2  9,862.6   70.9  6p996.3
3. NACUINERY NO EUIPNENT              4,793.7   619.4   650.1   426.1   322.2  6,911.4   75.9  S5170.8
C. VHICLES                            44197,1   569.7 1,067.98   239.4   766.2  6,30.2   N9.0  S,464.0
D. VETERINARY RUG                       295.9   367.3   461.1   557.3   563.5  2,235.1   94.5  2,112.9
Et NIRALS                                13.7     4.1     8.3    10.4    11.7      49.2    0.0      0.0
F. TECDIC.L ASSISTANCE                4,000.1  2994.5 2,739.1   615.0   307.5 109656.3   97.7 10,413.0
6. TRAININ6                             796.1   900.7   917.7   549.4   142.6  3,306.6   64.7  2,139.3
H. PPm  - DSRE57NET COsTs               675.0      -        -       -       -    675.0  100.0    675.0
Total INUESTNENT COSTS                  18,207.7 89,376.9 7546.3 3i966.6 2t427.9 40,425.3   81.6 32.970.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALAIS
1s1C SALARIES                     1,083.  1,100.1  1,123.2 19134.8 1I134.8  5,576.3    0.0      0.0
COOPERATING AUENCY SALARIES         647.6   679.0   697.3   715.3   735.9  3t474.0    0.0       0.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                   1,731.0 1,778.1 1,820.4 IB,90.1  1970.7  9050.3    0.0        0.0
3. OPERAnON AND NAINTEMIACE
1. KHICLE 0 1 N
FUEL AND LUDRICUITS            1,286.2 1,345.0 1,392.  1,391.0 1I391.0  6,796.2   74.6  5o072.3
NAINTENMICE                      982.5 1,023.9 1,049.6 1,054.2 1,054.2  5,164.5   87.3  4,507.1
Sub-Total VEHICLE 0 1 N           2,268.7 2,368.9 29432.4 2,445.3 2v445.3 110960.6   90.1  9v57.4
2. EDUIPIENT 0 1 N                1P907.9 1,791.2 19902.2 2,004.9 24009.2  95153   70*4  6,702.6
3. DWILDINS 0 * N                   137.4   143.0   14:.0   143.0   143.0    709.2   34.6    245.4
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAITAC       4,214.0 44303.1 4w477.5 4,593.1 4y597.5 22,195.2   74.5 16t527.3
C. AGRICULTL NI>UTS                     67.5   259.7   278.4   415.1   597.6  1,617.3   70.2  1,135.6
Do UILOIN6 RENTAL                       2989    31.1    31.1    31.1    31.1    153.0    0.0       0.0
E. OFFICE SUPFLIES                     177.1   179.4   179.4   179.4   179.4    894.6   77.1    689.9
F. AIRCRAFT HIRE                       736.6   736.6   736.6   736.6   736.6  34682.9  100.0  3,682.9
Be PP9 - RECURRmNT COSTS             1,129.0      -        -       -       -  1W129.0   99*7  1,001.3
Total RECINT CSTS                       9,093.9 7,286.9 7t523.3 7v805.4 9,012.7 38.712.1   59.5 23,036.9
Total ASE    COSTS                      26,291.4 15663.8 15M06.6 11,672.0 10i440.6 79,137.4   70.98 56007.0
Phnsieal C ouini                       1,975.1  19193.3  IP159.4 1032.0   939.7  6,299.4   63.9  4v023.S
Pries Contin_cius                      2,857.6 3,626.5 5,236.6 5,742.2  69664.5 249127.4   51.6 12,450.7
Total PRBJECT COSTS                     31,124.1 20,483.5 21'465.6 18W446.3 18044.98 109P564.2   66.2 72,461.3
3   zz-  .u333u    233333
Tas                                     516.2   498.2   544.0   594.2   644.6  2s9M.1    0.0         0.0
Fortim Exchpe                         22p,954.5 13,656.5 14s357.8 119142.2 10,370.2 72,4B1.3    0.0  0.0
October 24, 199 10:36



- 75                                           Annex
_R                                           Page 2
Pot Cumuut bu Tnr
(Lg '0003
lme Cmts                         Total
sMe    87/K1    am/9   9          9f    9/91  LCd   (MO M)
4, AIUCCNl.UL  9E9OFIIENT
1. SETIBEMTS                                          791.3 19044.3   962.2   40442   3254S  3SiSBlO    1,407.2
2. IETERI SERVICES                                 1706.2   774.3    93.9   965.5  9598.    52911.7   2115.!
3.  -EAM  PA1STUE INPOE                               567.1   516.    331.6   418.5   534.3   14118.       9d67.4
4. FWTRT                                              331.?  114.2   121.5   154*6  195,7        917.9     367.1
5. CESEH AU  TESIImO
EWII     CEIIS                                     625.4   323.9  4f7.4   346.7   371*4   2.124.?    950.0
FIAW IOTS                                           2445   123.1   222.3    33.9   462.3   1.19.7    474.7
ft911 OLTIWITIOH                                   399.5   114.7   114.7   114*7   114.7       557.4     342.9
EXTEiJKE                                           491.5   472.9   415*6   297.?   322.3   1.97.2        79.9
o-lRESWRCHl MND  lEISl                              1,57.0  hOle.?  1,210.0  1,113.2 1,271.2   6.166.1   24664
6. TEaSES. A6SSSTSICM                               l779.O  1.227.3   919.8   307.5        -   40233.6    WPMs
7. TRlADE                                             321.7   525.7   504.1   278.5    20.6   16506        660.2
F. SIREIIIENIKB LOCA I6ITIIUUUS                       221.9   200.9   170.2   127.6   127.6      949.1     339.2
9. UlCTED OF WRTDIS COITS                             147.8   139.9   139    139.9   139.9       707.3     292.9
Sb-Ttotl   UUUUL DK!JELWT                              7,393.9  5.576  SM293.3 3909.4 3.573.7  25074.7  10,299.5
D. Dfl'EERINB  SEUCES
1. IATERS RIAEILTATIN                               5.352.2    M5.5 1,298.7  1.065.5 100.9   9719.7   3,917.5
2. NEW ATERTAMI                                       836.4   932.9    63.1   976.9   113.0   3U622.1   1.4419
3. rS                                                    -   300.1    25.0   325.1    49.9    700.1        20.0
4. ROANM  TRIOS                                       259.1  1.6.6   516.6   516.6   259.1   2v927.8   1,131.1
5. IEAL ASSISTSICE                                    9636   445.2   273.6         -       -   1.687.4     675.0
6. TRADI                                              206*.7    55*.   U5.S    34.5        -     352.3    141.1
7. IWJLATED OPFATEB CDITS                           1s51911   901.0  1,023.2   951.6 1126.5   5.426.5   2,1I0.6
b-Total  UNEERI   SERVICES                            9.17.0  4,907.0 4,065.9  3,770.0 2,535.4  24335.4   9734.2
Cs. FRST AMUISTRATII
1. ClITSL CISTS                                     2.372*6   270.1   417.6    43.1   483.3  3W536.?   1P434.7
2. TECIIAL ASSISTAICE                                532.5   307.5   307.S   307.5   307.5   1762.5        705.0
3. 1R31D                                              1U.o   14.2   143.2    64.4          -     513.7    205.5
4. AIRAfT OPERATIN                                   432.5   432.5   432.5   432.5   432.5   2t162.3       364.9
St OM  AERTIICOSTS 2C69.4  1.A W                                    1449.5  1,449.5 1443.5   9493.5   3397.4
Sb-Total M1C  h       STTN                            6,199.9  201.el8  2749.2 2.6*0 2,01.9  16,519.6   6.607.3
D. MITI AND EVMTIN
1. TMR101                                              115    114S        -        -       -      23.0       9.2
2. TECEIICIL ASITAICE                                532.5   307.5   512.6         -       -   1,352.6     541.0
3. OETINI COSTS                                      145.9   122.1   122.1   122.1   122.1    63.1         253.6
9t-Tota I!WIIITIW  -  EWLTIU                            689.9  441.1   634.7   122.1   122.1  2,009.7         M03.9
E. KESEE IA AIC RL RESElllI PUECT
1t ENIFINT                                           603.7    9.1    90.7    49.3    42.6        329.5    331J.
2. TECDUI    ASSISTE                                 967.5   707.0   720.          -       -   2,295.1    n9.0e
3. TRAI                                               37.5    97.5    37.5   137.s    87.5    4987.5    1m.o
4. AIRCU  WFTION                                     304.1   314.1   304.1   304.1   304.1   1,20.6        609.3
5. OmIR PT        COS                               1,01.0  1,0*.  1.03.  1,093.5 1,093.5   5,312.2   2,156.9-
Sb.T-Total ESUE        IIICULTIRL. MESH Faw           2,370.9 2,235.3 2326.5  1,574.5 1W17.8  109524.9   4.20.9
Tota  til  COSTS                                       26.11.4 15,463.8 15,069.6 11,672.0 10440.6  79137.4  31,454.9
Phulemi Cmtlictu                                    1975.1 1.13.3 1.194  19032.0   939.7  6,299.4   2,519.9
Pice Cotaund                                         2857.6 364364  5236.6  5742.2 6664.5  240127.4   9,651.0
TOt  moar  grg                                         31,12.1 290.4 21,65.6 13.46.3 15044.  109.5642  4W252
TS                                                      16.2   492   544.0   594.2   WUJ   2.79.1  1113.9
For"  E iss                                         22,954.5 13,.5 14W57.9 Uh142.2 1N0W2  72,411.3  29,92.5
kctdw 24F 1K 10:40



- 76 -                                                Annex 5
Page 3
IERN SAVMA         PROJECT II
PRECT CUST SEW1
(LSd '0001                 (USI 'OO:                    2 Total
2 Foreign  hw
Local  Fonvitn  TotJl      Local  Fmreign  Total   Excha       Cots
m_    _mmu auuau    .umu........ mmum  m--_a..u..Uin.uuu
A. AGRICaLTIUAL INEVEIJPIENT
1. SETTLEMTS                                           969.7 2,548.2  3,518.0    387.9 '.01.3 19407.2           72       4
2. EERINMY SERVICES                                    828.1  4,459.9  5t9.7    331.5 10794.0 2.115.5          84        7
3.  NK  DND PASTUItE INPROT                          1,20.6  1,187.9  2,411.5    492.2   475.2   967.4          49        3
4. FUEST                                               437.4   480.4    W17.      175.0   192.1   367.1         52        1
5. RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
DEVELPENTCENTERS                                  1,09S.l 1,044.9  2,124.Y    432.0   417.9   850.0          49        3
FAN  IWMTS                                          206.4   990.2  1W16.7       92.6   3.1   474.7            a3       1
NAIA'A CULTIVATION                                  165.2   692.1    957.4      66.1   26.9   342.9           91       1
EXTElNSION                                          90.9  1,106.4  1,997.2    356.3   442.5   79.9            55       3
Su9-Totl RESEARCH AND EXTEIISION                     2,342.6 3,923.5  6916.1    937.1  1,529.4 2*466.4          62        8
6.  ENCICA  ASSISTANCE                                     - 4,233.6  4,233.6         - 1,3.5  1,693.5         100       5
7. TRAINING                                            457.6 19192.?  1.650.6    193.1   477.2   660.2          72        2
B. STRENEN    LICEL INSTITUTIONS                       442.3   405.8    99.1    176.9   162.3   339.2           49        1
9. WIhLOCATED OPERATING COSTS                          45.7   301.6    707.3    162.3   120.6   282.9           43        1
Sub-Total AERICULTUIIL [EVELPEINT 7a114.? 1B,633.1 25,748.7  2,946.0 7,453.5 10r29Y.5                              72      33
I. ENSINEERING SEVICES
1. HATERTARD REHADIIUTATI1                           1,905.0 7,S13.7  9,7n.7    762.0 3.12.5 3,B87.!            B0       12
2. NEl VITERYARDS                                      699.5 2923.6  34622.1    279.4   169.4  1.448.9          iI       5
3. NWI                                                 257.9   442.1    700.1    103.2   1769.  290.0           a        1
4. ROADS AND TRACKS                                  1041.9 1795.9  2i927.l    416.8   714.3 1*131.1           63       4
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANC                                 124.2 1i563.2   1687.4      49.7   625.3   675.0         93       2
6. TRANIIN                                             142.5   210.3    352.8      57.0    94.1   141.1         60       0
7. IALLMOATED OPERATI  COSTS                         19877.0 3,549.4  5426.5    750.8 1P419.8 29170.6          65       7
S-Total ENGINEERtIN SERVICES                            6,047.1 1B*23.3 24,335.4  2,418.8 79315.3 9,734.2          75      31
C. PROECT ADNINITTIO
1. WIlTE   COSTS                                       973.9 2.712.8  3,596.7    349.5 l,09.1 1,434.7          76       5
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                    - 1762.5  1,762.5          -   705.0   705.0        100       2
3-. TRNII                                              372.6   141.1    513.7    149.0    56.5        .5        27       1
4. AIRCRMT OETlN                                           - 2,162.3  2,162.3         -   864.9   664.9        100       3
5, 1THE1R WERATING COSTS                             4,421.5 4,072.0  9,493.5  1768.6 1t629.8 3397.4           49      11
Sub-Total PROMCT ADINIDTIN                              5668.0 109850.7 16.518.6  29267.2 4,340.3 6,607.5          66      21
D. MITORNING AN EWLUATION
1. TRAINING                                             23.0       -      23.0      9.2       -      9.2         -       0
2. TEECHAL ASSISTANCE                                      - 1s352.6  1u352.6         -   541.0   541.0        100       2
3. OPERATING COSTS                                     343.0   271.1    134.1    145.2   109.5   23.6           43       1
Sub-Tota  uTlING AND EUATION                              386.0 19623.7  2009.7    154.4   649.5  903.9           GI        3
E. IITERN SUDAN ARICTURAL RESEAR  PROCT 
1. E1IEPNENT                                           165.9   663.5    829.5      66.4   265.4   331.8         N        I
2. TECHlICAL ASITANSCE                                 119.1 2,176.0  2W295.1      47.6   970.4   919.0         S5       3
3. TRANING                                                 -   487.5    487.5         -   195.0   195.0        100       1
4. AlOCFT OPRATION                                         - 1'S20.6  1 520.6         -   608.3   609.3        100       2
5. OTIR OTING CsOs                                   34629.4 1*762.1  5392.2  1,451.8   705.1 21356.9           33       7
Sub-Total STR   UDIAN ARICALTIRAL REA    PJECT          3,914.4 6*610.5 10,524.9  1,565.6 2v644.2 4,209.9          63      13
Total DASEE  CSTS                                        23.130.3 569007.0 79137.4  9,252.1 22i402.9 31,654.9       71      100
Phimical eCatnin                                       2M275.  49423.5  6929.4    910.4 1609.4 2,519.9            64 
Prie  Catiocesin                                      11,676.7 12450.7 249127.4  4,670.7 4u990.3 99651.0          52      30
To    PRECT COSTS                                        37,093.0 72,491.3 109,564.2 14b3.2 2,9.  43,825.7           66     139
m              mkm ar -4, -9X5 le:4
Octabsi 24, I 11C42



- 77 -                        Annex 5
Page 4
Table 4
Estimated Annual Inflation Rates
z
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    i991
International
Inflation          5       7.5     8         8       8        8        8
Local Goods         30      25      18.75    16        15       15      15
Local Salar'.es      6       6       6         6        6        6       6



Table I
Estimated Schedule of Dlibursemants 1/
(US$ '000)
Joint IDA/IFAD                       IDA                           IFAD
IDA                       Disbursements                    Disbursements                  Disbursements
Fiscal                        at End of                       at End of                      at End of
Year    Quarter Ending        Quarter        Cumulative       Quarter       Cukulative       Quarter       Cumulative
1986     March 1986                335             335           335              335            -                 --
June 1986                 335             670           335              670            -                -
1987     September 1986          1,260           1,930           630            1,300           630               630
December 1986          1,260           3,190            630            1,930           630            1,260
March 198/              1,260           4,450           630            2,560           630            1,890
June 1987               1,260          5,710            630            3,190           630            2,520
1988     September 1987          1,100           6,810           550            3,740            550            3,070
December 1987          1,100           7,910            550            4,290           550            3,620
March 1988              1,100           9,010           550            4,840           550            4,170          1
June 1988               1,100          10,110           550            5,390           550            4,720         _
1989     September 1988          1,044          11,154           522            5,912            522            5,242
December 1988          1,046          12,200            523            6,435           523            5,765
March 1989              1,044          13,244           522            6,957           522            6,287
June 1989              1,046          14,290            523            7,480           523            6,810
1990     September 1989            874          15,164           437            7,917           437             7,247
December 1989            876          16,040            438            8,355           438            7,685
March 1990               874          16,914            437            8,792           437            8,122
June 1990                 876          17,790           438            9,230           438            8,560
1991     September 1990            720          18,510           360            9,590            360            8,920
December 1990            720          19,230            360            9,950           360            9,280
March 1991                720          19,950           360           10,310           360            9,640
June 1991                550          20,500           290            10,600           260            9,900
1/  Expected date of signing:  December 1985                                                                                  N
Expected date of effectiveness:  March 1986                                                                               at
Expected completlon date: June 30, 1991
Closing date: June 30, 1992



-79 -                           Annex 7
Table 1
Farngate Parity Prices Used in the Economic Analysis
(1985 constant)
1986          1990           1995
Groundnuts (LSd/mt) 11             459.0          426.0         402.0
Millet (LSd/mt)                    434.4           439.1        425.6
Sorghum (LSd/mt)                  434.4           439.1         429.6
Livestock (LSd/head)               540.7          612.0         637.4
Phosphorous (LSd/mt)              711.7           770.4         770.4
1/ The price is constituted of 75% FAQ nuts aL-nd 25Z confectionary nuts,
with a 50% price premium of confectionary over FAQ.



-80-                                     Ann=  8
page 
SUDAN
HESTERN SAWIW1 DEELO T PROECT - MHRSE 2
HATER PRODUCTION AN FUEL REOWT SCHEDILE
IHILLON GALLONS)
1      2       3      4       5
REHAILITATIO P3ROtM /a
12 IMOITH LLS
VELLS OPERATING AT
FULL CAPACITY                     -  3.000   S.000  S.000  5.000
HATER PRODN                     - 16857 29095 2.m05  28.095
IRLLs OPERATING AT
60 CAPACITY                   5.000   2.000      -       -       -
HATER PRODUCED              16.855  6.742      -       -       -
9 MMHT HELLS
LS WPERATING AT
FILL CAPACITY                     -  15.000 27.000 2J.000 27.000
HATER PRODUCED                  -  54.600 98.20  99.20 98.280
ELLS OPERAMTING AT
601 CAPACITY                 27.000  12.000      -       -       -
HATER PRODUCED             5B.969  26.208      -       -       -
6 IIOII IELLS
HEW  OPERATING AT
FULL CACITY                       -       -      -  4.000 22.000
ATER PRODCED                    -       -      -  7.210 39.820
HELLS OPERATING AT
60S CPCITY                   22.000 22.000 22.000  18.000        -
HATER PRODUCED             23.892  23.892  23.892  19.548      -
OTHER WELLS lb
VATER PRODMCED              11.460  11.460  1J.460  11.460  11.460
HAINTENAICE PRMGRA
12 DMNIH MELLS              320.283 320.283 320.293 320.283 320.'83
8 ITH HLS                   171.080 171.060 171.080 171.090 171.060
6 N0M   HELLS                 9.550 9.550  99.550  9.550  99.550
TOTAL HATER PRDDUCTION      702.068 730.672 752.640 755.536 768.568
wwITIY  F FUEL REQUIRED
(M000 SAL.) /c              230.710 248.429 255.898 256.9M2 261.313
-=             :~=~=== =,=-=z
la Rehabilitated wells aperating an a 12, B, and 6 month bsis Priducc a1alls
5619 3640, and 1810 million Ullons. lefgre reabilitaUorn anus MC of this i.. Produced.
hb Pepreents the 11 vaeruards outside the rhabilitation program o'eratin: an .
6 mnth basis and Producing 1.086 sillion sallons ta. each.
hc Fuel remireent is 0.34 sallons f diesel Per 1000 gallors of wate.- Pupe.J.
Jun ISi 1985 10:29



-81 -                                             Annex 8
Page 2
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPUENT PROJECT - PHASE 2
MATER CHIRGE ANALYSIS
1        2_       3         4        5
OPERATION COSTS (LSd '000)
SALARIES AND UAGES            1375.900 1458.400 1545.900 1638.700 1737.000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            89.600   96.600         -        -         -
WATERYARD MAINTENANCE          752.300  809.800  867.300  897.300  595.300
VORKSHOP MAINTENANCE           111.600  190.600  29".600  428.400  598.300
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE            310.300  339,800  3?1.?00  406.100  443.700
WORKSHOP FUEL Ia               123.100  132_400  143.600  154.600  167.300
VEHICLE FUEL /b                202.700  230.000  261.20)  282.200  305.1iO
WATEPYAPD FUfEL lc             989.660 1110.220 1232.430 133i.133 1'469.770
DEPRECIATION id               1853.810 19'22.40 1995.300 2083.440 2083.44u
INTEREST Ie                    234.060  499.490  583.850  604.750  627.1iO
TOTAL                       6043.030 6790.150 7291.880 7931. U' 8030.620
WATER PRODUCTION /f            702.088  730.672  752.640  75b.536  768.568
UATER SALES (MILL SAL'S) Js   561.670  584.538  602.112  604.429  614.854
PRICE PER GALLON (LSd)           0.011    0.012    0.012    0.013    0.013
PRICE PER TIN (LSd)              0.043    0.046    0.048    0.052    0.052
/a  Estimated at 27,600 gallons or diesel and 1,300 a. of Petrcl.
/b  Based on a total of 475,000 km/annm  for 4wd vehickes at 15 3./;z. anid 194,000
km/annum for trucks at 10 s./km.
ic  See Previous table.
Jd  Depreciation is calculated for rehabilitated wells at 2/3 of the Price of a new
well and for non-rehabilitated wells at 1I3 of the Pric: of a new well. Vehicle
depreciation iS ovel 5 rses for landroers and riclut,s
and 8 sears for trucks.
/e  Based on 12% interest and asssmes workaiti capital regr=red to ccver 2.  ee4i
magesp Petrol suPpls for 2 months' and spares for 6 aonths. Fur itiars Prnvded
under the credit, an onlending rate of 16%
has been used.
If  See Previous table.
ia  80  of water Production.
June 18. 1985  10:28



-82 -                             Annex 8
Page 3
Table 3
Household Water Consumption and Water Cost
for Comparison to Total Net Income
Constant 1985 Prices       Current 1990 Prices
At 2 P.T.     At 4 P.T.             At 5.5
per Tin  1,   per Tin              per Tin
1. Cost of Water (LSd) for:
(a) Human Consumption
12 gallons/day            21.6           43.2                 59.4
(b) Livestock
15 cattle watering 2/
over 4 month period       72.0          144.0                198.0
8 sheep and goats 3/
watering over 4 moUnth
period                    14.4           28.8                 39.6
(c)  Total                    108.0          216.0                297.0
2. Household Net Cash
Income                      1,118.1        1,118.1              3,561.7
3. Net Cash Income after
Payment for Water           1,010.1          902.1              3,264.7
4.  Percentage Water payments
of Household Net Cash
Income                          9.6           19.2                  8.3
1/     One tin equals 4 gallons.
2/,3/ For one watering of cattle two times the rate of one tin is charged, for
small stock the charge is one tin.



- 83 -                              Annex 9
Page 1
Table I
Private Veterinary Services - Schedule of Treatments
Year
1          2          3           4          5
1. Herd Size 1/                             50,000      83,000    116,550    150,000
2. Treatments (Z of animals)
10% CBPP                               5,000       8,300     11,655      15,000
1OZ Trypanosomiasis                    5,000       8,300     11,655      15,000
15i Othere 2/                          7,500      12,450     17,483     22,500
Rinderpest 2
1                             50,000     50,000      35,000     35,000
2                                        33,000      33,000     23,100
3                                                    33,550     33,550
4                                                               33 * 450
Total Rinderpest                  50,000     83,000    101,550    125,100
All Treatments                    67,500    112,050    142,343    177,600
3. Cost of Drugs (LSd) 3/
CBPP                                   1,950       3,818      6,177       9,000
Trypanosomiasis                        2,900       5,146      7,809      10,950
Other                                 21,750     38,595      59,442     83,250
Rinderpest                            16.500      30,710     43,645      61.300
Total                             43,100     78,269    117,073    164,500
1/ Corresponds to 152, 25Z, 35Z and 45% of the total herd being covered by the
program.
2/ During first two years all cattle are treated; in the following years 35% of
the herd, twice annually.
3/  Cost of CBPP vaccine is L.S. .35, Trypanosomiaeis is LSd .5, Rinderpest LSd
.3, and other treatments LSd 2.5



- 84 -                           Annex 9
Page 2
Table 2
Veterinary Service - Treatment Charge Analysis
Year
1          2           3          4           5
Operating Costs ('000 LSd)
Vehicle operation and                    24.3        26.5       28.8        31.4
maintenance
Salaries and Wages 1I                     3.8        4.0         8.6         9.1
Operators Profit and
Return to Labor 2/                     29.7       32.3        35.0        37.9
Miscellaneous Equipment                   1.5         1.8        2.0         2.3
Drugs                                    43.1        78.2      117.0       164.3
Interest on Working Capital 3/            5.0         7.6       10.8        14.3
Depreciation 4j                          11.7        11.7       11.7        11.7
TOTAL COST                            119.1      162.1       213.9       271.0
Number of Treatments                     67.5       112.0      142.3       177.6
Price per Treatment (LSd)                 1.8         1.5        1.5         1.5
Incremental Financial                    36.2      147.3       361.5       716.0
Value ('000 LSd)
1/ One assistant in year 2 and 3, and 2 in year 4 and 5.
2/ Yearly salary of LSd 12,000 and 20X profit on capital investment.
3/ At 14% for 6 months.
4/ Vehicle depreciation based on 5-year life.



Table I
On-Farm Labor Creation
(o000 man days)
Yeara
1        2          3          4         5          6          7         8           9           10
Wateryard Program                --      1,279.1   2,876.0   5,294.5   6,421.2   7,031.2   8,424.7   10,017.3   11,410.8   13,003.5
Extenslon Component              28.5       76.9     138.7      255.8      266.8     356.8      467.9       547.2       567.3      56G.2
Naga'a Cultivation               17.2       41.4      69.0      138.0      172.5      172.5     172.5       172.5       172.5       172.5
Settled Communities Project        .5        1.0        1.5       2.0        2.5        2.5       2.5         2.5         2.5         2.5
TOTAL                            46.2   1,398.4   3,085.2   5,690.3   6,863.0   7,563.0   9,067.6   10,739.5   12,153.1   13,746.7             1
Labor requirements: (man days/hectare):
1.  Wateryard Program:
Millet 27, sorghum 77, groundnut 96, miscellaneous/other 80
2.  Extension Program:
Use of phosphorous 8, seed dressing 1, use of Improved seed 2
3.  Naga'a Cbltivation:  69
4.  Sedentary Community Program:
Fenclng 100 man days per communlty.



Table 1
Farm Budget: Qoz Land System
Baslc System Without ProJect
(Constant 1985 Prices)
Area      Yield       Productlon         Price               Value of Production
Cropplg Pattern                 (ha)       (kg)           (kg)           (LSd/mt)                   (LSd)
Crop Production
Millet                          5.0       390.0        1,950.0           330.0                      643.5
Sorghum                         0.3      560.0          168.0           220.0                        37.0
Groundnuts                      1.6      670.0        1,072.0            620.0                      664.6
Miscellaneous                   0.1                                                                  100.0
Livestock Production             Head   Offtake CE   Offtake (heed)   Price (LSd/head)
Cattle                         15.0        7               1            400                         400
Sheep                           4.0       25               1              75                         75
Coats                           4.0       25               1              40                         40
Salvage value, dead and
culled animals 1/                                                                                 240
Gross Income                                                                                        2,200.1
Home Consumption Estimate 2/                                                                           724.4
Gross Cash Income                                                                                    1,475.7
Cost of Production
Seed 3/                                                                                              69.8
Tools'                                                                                                10.0
Sacks                                                                                                82.0
Vaccine Drugs                                                                                          7.0
Hlred Labor 4/                                                                                       158.8
Miscellaneous Production                                                                              30.0
Total Cost:                                                                                            357.6
Net Cash Income:                                                                                     1,118.1
1/ Equivalent of 1,5 head per year, sold at 40Z of market value.
2/  Per family of six:  I mt of millet; 30S of groundnuts, SOZ of miscellaneous aod all sma0lstock offtake.
I 6 kg/ha for sorghum and millet, and 60 kg/ha for groundouts.
/ 106 man days of peak season labor and 21 man days off-season labor.



Table 2
Fare Budget: Qo. Land Sgsteo
With Project - Phosphorouss Seed Dressing and Improved Seed
(Constant 1985 Prices)
Area      Yield       Production          Price              Value of Productlon
Cropping Pattern                 (ha)       JUL            (ks)            (LSd/gt)                    (LSd)
Crop Production
Millet I/                       5.0       612.0        3,060.0           330.0                      1,009.8
9orghuo                         0.3       560.0          168.0           220.0                         37.0
Groundnuts                      1.6       670.0        1,072.0           620.0                        664.6
KLscellaneous                   0.1                                                                   100.0
Livestock Production             Head   Offtake (Z)   Offtake (head)   Price (LSd/head)
Cattle                         15.0         7              1             400                          400
Sheep                           4.0        25              1               75                          75
Goats                           4.0        25              1              40                           40
Salvage value, dead and
culled animals                                                                                      240
C'rocs  Incoae                                                                                        2,565.8
gome Consumption Estimate                                                                               724.4
Gross Cash Income                                                                                     1,841.4
Cost of Production
Seed                                                                                                   74.3
Pbosphates                                                                                             77.0
Toole                                                                                                  10.0
Seed Dresolng                                                                                           6.0
Sacks                                                                                                 106.0
Vaccines, Drugs                                                                                         7.0
Hired Labor  |                                                                                        165.0
Hiscellaneous Production                                                                               30.0
Total Cost                                                                                            475.3
Net Cash Income:                                                                                      1,366.1
Incremental Benefit/Cost Ratios  3.1
Millet yields rise by 402 in response to phosphorous application, 102 due to Improved seed and 7S due to                 _
seed dressing.                                                                                                           _
/  One hundred seven man days of peak season labor, and 26 man days off-season labor; 50S of the
project-induced additional off-season labor Is met by family labor.



Table 3
:oz Land Systems - With and Without Project (Animal Drawn Equipment Only)
Labor Requirement by Crop and Month
(man days)
Off-Season                                  Peak Season                        Off-Season
January   February   March   ?pril   May    June    July    August   September   October   November   December
1.  Without Project
Crops (ha)
Millet (5.0)               -           -         --       -         5.5   24.0       95.0    72.5        -            -           66.0        23.0
Sorghum (0.3)             --           --        --       --        2.4    2.2        5.3      6.2       -           -             5.3         1.8
Groundnuts (1.6)           -           -         --       --       --      26.9      29.1    41.9        -            33.3        22.2        -
Others (0.1)               --          --        I- --              1.0    1.0        2.0      2.0         1.0         1.0        -           -
Sjbtotal                                                          8.9   54.1      131.4   122.6         1.0        34.3         93.5        24.8
Livestock (head)
Cattle (15)
Sheep (4)
Coats (4)                                                                                                                                                   C
Herding and Watering        7.0         7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0    7.0        7.0      7.0        7.0          7.0         7.0          7.0
Total                       7.0         7.0       7.0      7.0    16.0   61.0    138.0   130.0            8.0         41.0       101.0        32,0
Family Labor              81.0         81.0      81.0    81.0    81.0   81.0         81.0    81.0        81.0         81.0        81.0        81.0
Hired Labor                -           --        --                                  57.0    49.0        -            -           21.0        -
2. With Project
Crops (ha)
Millet (5.0)               --          --        --       --        5.5   10.0       38.0    29.0        --           -           66.0        23.0
Sorghum (0.3)              --          --        -        --        2.4    1.0        2.1      2.5       -            -            5.3          1.8
Groundnuts (2.6)           --          --        --       --       --      17.9      20.0    27.0        -            54          36.0        --
Others (0.1)               -           --        --       --        1.0    1.0        2.0      2.0         1.0         1.0        -           -
Livestock Herding
and Watering              7.0         7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0    7.0        7.0      7.0        7.0          7.0         7.0         7.0
Total                       7.0         7.0       7.0      7.0    16.0   37.0        69       68          8.0         62.0       114          32            1 
Family Labor              81.0         81.0      81.0    81.0    81.0   81.0         81.0    81.0        81.0         81.0        81.0        81.0
Hired Labor                -           -                  --       -        --            --             -            -           33                        WS
Note: Use of the seeder-weeder reduces total labor requireaents for millet, sorghum and groundnut cultivation by 403.



Table 4
Farm Budget: Qoz Land System
With Project - Animal Drawn Equipment Only
(Constant 1985 Prices)
Area      Yield       Production          Price              Value of Productlon
Cropping Pattern                  (ha)      (kg)            (kg)           (LSd/mt)                    (LSd)
Crop Production
Millet                          5.0       390.0        1,950.0           330.0                        643.5
Sorghum                         0.3       5b0.0          168.0           220.0                        37.0
Groundnuts                      2.6       670.0        1,742.0           620.0                      1,080.0
Miscellaneous                   0.1                                                                   100.0
Livestock Production             Head   Offtake (Z)   Offtake (head)   Price (LSd/head)
Cattle                         15.0         7              1             400                         400
Sheep                           4.0        25               1              75                          75
Goats                           4.0        25              1              40                           40
Salvage value, dead and
culled animals                                                                                      240                1
'0
Gross Income                                                                                          2,615.5
Home Consumption Estimate                                                                               724.4
Gross Cash Income                                                                                     1,89.1.1
COst of Productio.a
Seed                                                                                                  107.0
Tools 1/                                                                                               56.0
Sacks                                                                                                 110.0
Vaccine Drug!                                                                                           7.0
Hired Labor  /                                                                                         33.0
Miscellaneous Production                                                                               30.0
Total Cost:                                                                                             343.0             0
Net Cash Income:                                                                                      1,548.1
1/ Coat of animal drawn equipment is LSd 50.
2/ Thirty-three man days off-season labor.



Table 5
Farm Budgets Qo: Land Syste- wlth Project
Phosphorous, Seed Dressing Improved Seed and AnImal Traccion I/
Area      Yield       Production         Price              Value of Production
(ha)      (4g)           ()             (LSd/ut)                   (LSd)
Crops
millet                          5.0      612.0        3,060.0           330.0                    1,009.8
Sorghum                        0.3       560.0          168.0           220.0                       37.0
Groundnuts                     2.6       670.0        1,742.0           620.0                    1,080.0
Miscellaneous                                                                                      100.0
LLvestock                        Head   Offtake (Z)   Offtake (head)   Price (LSd/head)
Cattle                         15.0        7              1             400                        400.0
Sheep                          4.0        25              1              75                         75.0
Coats                          4.0        25              1              40                         40.0
Salvage value, dead and
culled anuials                                                                                   240.0
Gross Incace                                                                                       2,981.8
Home Consumption Estimate                                                                            724.4                 0
Gross Cash Income                                                                                  2,257.4
Cost of
Productlon
(W d)
Seed                                                                                               111.5
Tools                                                                                               56,0
Sacks                                                                                              134.0
Seed Dressing                                                                                        6.0
Phosphates                                                                                          77.0
Vaccine Crugs                                                                                        7.0
Hired Labor                                                                                         39.2
Miscellaneous                                                                                       30,0
Total Cost:                                                                                          460,7
Hot Cash Incomes                                                                                   1,796.7
Incremental Benefit/Cost Ratiot  7.6                                                                                    r I
Aggregate result of lndlvldual farm budgets (Annex 2, pages 1, 2 and 4)



- 91 -                         Annex 12
Page 1
Table I
Unit Activity Budget
With Project - Naga'a Cultivation
(One ha, CDnstant 1985 Prices)
Area     Yield      Price         Value of
Crop                           (ha)     (kg)       (LSd/mt)     Production
Sorghum                         1       1,000         220         220
Cost of Production
Tractor Hire Charges 1/                                          44.1
Seed                                                            2.2
Sacks                                                         20.0
Hired Labor 2/                                                   48.1
Net Cash Income                                                   105.6
/ Operating costs of LSd 36.4 per hour and 1.2 tractor.hours per ha,
tractor depreciation included over 6 years.
2/ Thirty-seven man days peak season labor at LSd 1.3 per day; 32 man days
off-season labor provided by family labor.



-92 -                         Annex 12
Page 2
Table 2
Rate of Adaption of Extension Messages
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total
Use of Phosphorous                         -
(ha)               120    1,100      4,310    11,300     21,930     38,760
(tons)               2.4      22        86       226        439        775
Seed Dresslng
(no.-of farmers)  1,920   5,120     8,960     12,360    11,500     39,860
Tree Seedlings
('000)               9.6      97.6    277.4      465.4      744.6    1,594.6
Animal fractlon
Weeder/Seeder
(no.)               12        40       120       450       1,334     1,956



-93 -                          Annex 12
Page 3
Table 3
Seed Production Scheme
Project Settlemeuts/lateryards
Year 1 Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5
-           -
No. of settlements/
wateryards                      6      16        28        43       -60
No. of farmers                2,400   6,400    11,200    17,200    24,000
Area under millet (ha)       12,000  32,000    56,000    86,000   120,000
Area sown with clean
seed (ha)                       -   1,600     2,800     4,400     6,000
Net required (clean
seed) (tons)                           11.2      19.6      30.8      42.0
Gross requireaent (clean
seed) (tons)                    -      13.4      23.5      36.9      50.4
Contract seed grower
area (ha)                       -      26.9      47.0      74.0     100.8
Seed procurement cost (LSd)       -   5,520     9,682    15,203    20,765
,~~~ . 
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
.'           I      .                                        .~~S 



Table 4
Cropped Area Under Wateryard Program
(t000 ha)
With Project
Yard Maintenance    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6    336.6
Rehabilitation        61.2      69.2      85.7     85.7      85.7      85.7     85.7      85.7      85.7     85.7
New Wateryards         9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2
Total Area           406.0    415.0    431.5    431.5    431.5    431.5    431.5    431.5    431.5    431.5
Without Project
Area                 396.8    396.0    388.7    352.8    336.0    326.9    306.2    282.5    261.8    238.1
Incremental Area       9.2      19.0      42.8     78.7      95.5    104.6    125.3    149.0    169,7    193.4
1/ Assumes cropped area would decline to about 60% of the current level as wateryards output would fall due
to lack of maintenance without project (para. 5.01).
i 



-                                                            A5-    12
Pa 5
Table 5
Proect lacrental Cr. ftaduetiea
1          2            3                        S            0            7            a 6                        10
I. watrcard Prora 11
Itill-C
Ate (ha)                   0       13,590         .M553     5250          6 2         74,700      69,505       10b.425       121.230      136,150
Yield Cot/")               0            .39          .33          .39         .39          .3          .*3      3                  .39           .39
Productlon Cat)            0       3,300       11,31I.5    21.937.5    263,05.6    29,133L0       34.06.9      4I.50.7      47z275.7      53,U8.5
Area (Ca)                  0          615       1.833        3.375       4*093        4462         5,370         6,365        7,274         8,259
Yield Cuth)                0            .56          .56          .56          .54         .5. .56                    .54 .51                   .56
rduetloan Cot)             0         457        1.027        I.630       2,292        2,510        3.007        3.570         4,073         4,.42
Crudnout
Ar. Cbh)                   0        4.30        3,77 no     1B.          21.630      23,304       26.642        34.056       33.7"         4.42
Yield (Ct/A)               0            .47          .V7         .7          .67          .b7         .67            .47          .67           .67
Prduedttom Cut)            0       2.914        4,551       12,060       14.424      14,016       19.150       22.67        25,992        29.619
VY.gatable mmd
ie.oll Com (ho)              0         272          a     11 I 2            1,304        3,4I.       1.7Z0         2.126        Z,42          2,763
2. Iatmn.lan Pratt
Pbom dt  AlgleAtebn
millet
Area (ha)                120        1.100       4.310       11.300       21.330      35.140       503.70        ,6.0         67,400        639
i.mu teml Yield C(t/a)   .154           .1G          .156        .154         .156         .154 .156                 .156          .154          .154
Production (t)            15          172         672        1.763       3.421        5.465        7.351        9.103        10.514        10.665
Seed Dremlng
millec
Aria (hs)              9,400       25 .40      44,A         61.00       57.500      46,000       3.500         29.000       19.500         9.500
Incremental Yield (mt/h)    .0z7          *          .027         .027        .027         .027         .02          .ODO .027                   .07
ProductlSn  (at)         22         eJ7        1.223        1."7         1.570       1.310        I.051          733           532           259
Certified So"
Ae  (be)                   0           0        1.600        2,600        4.40        6,000        .600         7.200        7.*00         6.400
mcr.m.tal TYeld (wt/ha) -             -               03         .031         .033         .039         .3           .039           033         .039
Pftduetien (at)            0           0           f2          103          172         234          257          261           304           328
srMad      Emt
Armo (ba)                 12          *0          120          450        1,334       1."0         1.450         1.S50        1.550         1.600
Yield tmt/he)               ."7         .47          .b7          .17         .67          .67          .07          .67           .67           .67
Producton (MO)             *27                     s0          302         63           33           972         3.005        l.039         1.072
"gala Cultivariam
Avea Cla)                20           600       1.000        2.000        2,500       2.SD0        2.500         2.S5O        2.500         2.500
Yeld Cat/bh)               1.0          1.0         1.0          3.0          1.0         3.0          1.0           1.0          1.0           1.0
Production C-c)          250         600        1.000        2,00D       2,500        2.500        2.500        2.500         2.00         2.500
If Crop benfiot are qunifletd only for te 147 velle oerela  an a 12 tor 16 Mth b.31t.
Ner mello umald b      trected at tke  ate of 3 lo ymr  1. 2, In yar 3, and 2 to year 4; 5_t of the eatLer  tah oup pod.wtia  the year foUeag
inetallatin and 502 :. _mcnd yer  ater lnt.lLetle.
ehobhitatlati. 16 mllr wil bi. rehablitated in year 1, and 14 In yer 21 the ftul agrlcultuvel podctan poentil wll be reehed two years after
rehomlltacti.n
Nminotnswom. Iarlenltrel pdnctlam would he predicted to docUm from 12 In 7cr 2 to 0S by yee  10.



- 96 -                            Annex 13
Page 1
Table 1
Benefits of Veterinary Services Program f or One Nomadic Herd
(cattle only)
Without Project            With Project
Year 5      Year 10
1000 Read Herd
Herd Composition
Total Herd (head)                    1,000               1,000        1,000
Females
Adult                                 526                 520          509
1-3 years                             185                 187          191
less than 1 year                      118                  117         114
Males
Adult                                  18                  18           18
1-4 years                             271                 275          281
less than 1 year                      118                 117          114
Herd Productivity Parameters
Calving Percentage (Z)                .45                              .45
Hortality Adult (Z)                   .05                              .04
Calf (Z)                   .20                              .15
Offtake (X)                            10                  11           12
(head)                       100                  110         120
100 Bead Herd 1/
Incremental Offtake (bead)                                      1           2
Gross Value                                                 400         800
Incremental Cost of Production 1/                           105.0       118.8
Incremental Net Income                                      255.0       681.2
I/ Rinderpeat vaccination to 100X of the herd in year 1 and 2, and twice
annually for 35Z in the following years. 102 of the herd is treated against
Trypanosomiasis and CBPP and 15% receive other treatment.  Until year 5
treatment will be predominantly for Rinderpest and CBPP. Cost of vaccines:
(LSd/dose) Rinderpest .25; CBPP .3; Trypanosomiasis .5; others 2.5; and
L.S. 42 proportional overhead cost in year 5 and L.S. 27 in year 10.
Proportional charges reduce with increasing herd size entering the program.



Table 2
Program - Livestock Benefits
Year
1           2          3          4           _          6           7                     9           10
Settled Ca unity
1.  One Settlement
Herd Size         2,000        2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000
Incremental
Offtake (head
of cattle)                                  19          38         57         76          96        116        135         135
2. Total Program
Herd sixe         6,000        9,000     12,000     18,000      24,000     30,000     30,000      30,000     30,000     30,000
Incremental
Offtake            -            -           57        171         342        570        858       1.149      1,440       1,674
Veterinary Program 21
Total Herd       2,000,000   2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000
Anluals Affected
by Veterinary
Program              -         300,000    500,000    700,000    900,000  1,100,000  1,300,000  1,500,000  1,600,000  1,600,000
Increuental Offtake    -             360      1,250      2,660       4,590      7,040      10,010     13,500     16,480      20,640
Total Incremental
Offtake               -             360      1,307       2,831      4,932      7,610      10,868     14,649     17,920      22,314
1/ Incremental milk production will be consumed on the farm.
T/ 15% of the total herd will be affected by the program in year 2 increasing to 0B by year 9*



- 9  -                                              Anne 14
Table 
Increamtel Covemant Ch Flow  /
85186    86687    87/8      8/8       89/90     0/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95196
Inflows
Zxta    Finanin
IDA Credit               1,675    6,300    5.499    5,213    4.376    38605          -         -        -         -        -
IFAD Loan                   -     6.300    5,499    5.213    4,378    3,605          -         -        -         -        -
ODA Grant                   -     9,658    4,109    5,100    3,508    3,580          -         -        -         -        -
Total                  1,675   22,258   15,107   15,526   12,266   10,790          -         -        -         -        -
Cost RecoverY
Water Charges 2/            -      4,943    6.313    7,225   7J658    7,993    7993    7.993    7.993    7,993    7,993
Vet. Charges 3/             -         -       364       706    1,281    1,598    2,209    2.524    2,749    3,263    3,600
Tractor Hire Charges        -         12       31        55      119       161      161       161      161       161       161
Phopborou    -              -          2       23       103      305       66S      665       665      66S       66S      "S
Seed Dresalag               -         14       46        95      151       161      135       106       61        55       26
Total                           4,971    6,777    8,184    9,714   10,578   11.163   11,51   11.649   12,137   12,445
Import Taes 4/              -        516      498       544      594       645      645       645      645       645      645
Crop and Livestock
Taxes 5/                  -         15      417    1,830    2,443    3,656    4 Z..       5.306    6,426    7,344    8,428
Total                              531      915    2,374    3,037    4,301    4,926    5,951    7,071    7,989    9,073
Total Inflows            1,675   27,760   22.799   26,084   25.015   25,669   16,069   17,402   18.720   20,126   21,518
Outflow
Project Costs 6/         1,675   29,230   20,296   21,420   18,447   18,045    6,000    6.000    6,000    6,000    6,000
Debt Service
IAm 7/                    -       267       267      267       267      267       267       267      267       267      267
IFADS/                    -        188      188       188      186       186      185       186      118       188      166
Total Outflows           1.675   29,685   20,751   21,875   18,902   18,500    6,855    6.855    6.655    6,855    6,855
Net Annual Inflow             -    (1.925)   2,046    4,209    6,113    7,169    9,234   10,547   11,865   13,271   14,663
(Outfloa)
Cuomlative Inflow                   (1,925)     123    4,332   10,44S   17,614   26,648   37,395   49,260   62.531   77,194
(Outflow)
1  Current price  to 90/91, constant prlces thereafter.
Assumes o80Z cost recovery in year 1, 902 In year 2. and 1OD  thereafter.
Assum    SO  cost recovery in year 2, 702 In year 3, and 1OOZ thereafter.
T/  Tax an fnel.
S/ Assume 82 value of marketed crop and E10 per mrketed animl.
Ti  Includes cost of USARP -   lncrmnal productlon and revenue due to reserch not quantIflablie
T/  Interest at .752 per year for 50 yewr. ulth a 10 yer grace. period on prAcipal.
8/ Interest at 12 per year for 50 years. with a 10 year grace period on principal.



-99                                              Annex  15
SUDAN
MESTERN SAVWAA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
EINIC ANALYSIS
'000 LSD
COST/TENEFIT ANILYSIS - TOTAL PROJECT
1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9        10
-3ENEFZT            240.030  4849.970 11059.202 2062.243 26633.722 32328.289 39811.672 47571.049 54290.902 62566.065
-"VABE VkUE /a           -         -         -                                      -         -         - 2666.700
JIAL  EHEFITS      A 240.030  4847.9ZD 11059.202 20682.243 26633.722 32328.289 39811.672 47571.049 54290.902 6o232.765
J1S5            22415.781 13267.486 13791.486 12911.010 13283.051 7689.544  8945.951  9705.148 1122910 10945*816
LLACEMENTS lb            -         -         -        -         -  268.900  1401.800   467.000         -  390.000
liUTAL COSTS      22415.781 13267.486 13791.486 12911.010 13283.5S1  7958.444 10347.751 10172.148 11232.910 11335.816
1T ST.EAH       -22175.751 -8417.516 -2732.284  7771.233 13350.671 24636.746 30065.721 37865.901 43057.992 51620.249
) Of itnes not accounted for in individual coweonent anawlses.
'b  Of items not accoutted 'for in individual component analvses.
tine hr7 1585  13:52
internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
i---TQT               34.8F%



-100-                                                     Appendix  I
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - Phase 11
Implementafion Schedule
PROJECT    
PREpARATION          .CT        PROJECTWE  2  |PROJEC AYEA 3    PROJECTVEAR 4         PR     T        5
1915         196               1W87              1988              1989              1990       1991
3   4   I  _   2   3   £        1   2   3   4   1   2   34    t   2   34                      4    1
UU~~~%1~LLIL   ULLL    LLJ                                         UILL
SETTLEMENIS ESTABLISHED                                                    el f               t
UNDERWSPI                              S  S              S  5              5                 -  - _                                 -
Extension Sewwice Coeratmnl          '-' m                                                              -        m - m            
Phatchate Bo _A_o Od
Vflr/Sden in Use                     ,  ,                           m         m   m        u      _              *   m   m __m
h1w ffl@ or ane                      ,t               o                o                    -       _m     _     *m m_ =  
Pasture Being bnprod e"                                                 't        S    -                             -    m
Irnea  itsa   bobb         Sft               f                  f                 ft,  _t _        _ _ __  
Irnp*wlcWOd     Seeas Awciabe ,e                                              a   m   -             - _              -   m   *   m   m
ESETSLISHED UNDER 2S Pt, 2                      -                                             f                /
Ste Demrnocation                                  mIm                                                        de
suua'ahcnotSeMtersf                                                                                                              
Extension SweOperational                               -                 f        m   m                           mmm
osale Being Appe                                                            mm                 p       mo
Vlecer/Se s in                                                               m         mis  m  m   m   m   m              m _      m   -
Foliown & Pastw, s8ng Im_roved     "                                                   m            -   a             m   a W  _
bmprcned lPAest Seed Awailctem                                                                 m m mm -                            m m
WAIERYARDS                                 e              f _                                 If __
Costnoctsun of 11 New varcs                       m
Reo rcdionaot o 4n of as               t          m_ m          -   m   m   m                 f_              /       _ f_
Mitenance rogforn far 223 ards_
ESr Serwmce Coi2ratlan  tom                                                                    m m m 6                - m
45 ComrmunvtesWsidtKe Setttenent    fi                                                                           
RANGE& PASTREIMPROEMENI                t                  ,                                                                       ft
N oneoxjc Range Programn// _ _ __                                _     _      _                       
l~~~~~~~ t                                                  o        f                 I  f             I  it      -      , f  f     '   
C(A sdict-on lottf S"(sCot
zuwevIOf docco Facge Seec                      t                         f                  f                ft                ft
1 tJPrW>VCs FesfrvtSeeftSee fng_
sianltcmc Pange Rag  _              / ra  _ '  m   m            mm          _     m           _         m                m d /
I   ausencemscaet   za  /           to      I     _     T     -    _    _   _f_t                 f T         fgo  t
t--ini-c GojosSee Cente                                    a        mui 
Programxtensiom                                                                          't _    _                            t _fS S
With ckn,cat                               t                 f                  fe               t                    i
|uvi at Lo'calFoaeseeris                t'R               t          _ ~              m   m        S   -   m             -   m             m,/_k.II[  
Pkis epcm                                          m:                                              m              : :        m
CNN0 Wor  'S~ S                                                m m               m 
t///,1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ /
ftioritshop                         f                     p e                             t
ko Storoft
Plsoh7cees 7- m m                                                                                                  m -           5
Rovacxonaarcotattt                                                                       '5               '' 



-101-
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   From Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC):
1.   Western Savannah Project - Phase II
Preparation Report: Main Report and Annexes, February 1985
2.   Western Savannah Project - Phase I
Evaluation Report by Consultants, June 1984
3.   Western Savannah Project - Phase I
Project Evaluation Committee Report by GOS, August 1984
4.   Study of the Land Tenure System_ of South Darfur, March 1985
5.   Landsat Survey - South Darfur, 1984
6.   WSDC Annual Reports, 1981-82, 1982-83, 1983-84
7.   WSDC Annual Wbrk Programs, 1982-83, 1983-84, 1984-85
8.   WSDC Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit:
Report No. 3: 1984 Nomad Survey
Report No. 2: 1983 Farmer Survey
Report No. 1: 1982 Farmer Survey
9.   Report on a Visit by Consliltant Agronomist, May-June 1982
10. Report on trials carried out at three experimental sites in South
Darfur, 1976-82
B.   From Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP):
1.   WSARP Annual Reports, 1979-80, 1980-81, 1981-82, 1982-83, 1983-84
2.   WSARP Research Program Review, November 1982
3.   WSARP Evaluation Team Mid-Term Report, January 1983.
4.   Various work programs.- technical reports and publications



uA                  -.                                                                          S U D A N
%.,4i    98   liXlWESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT PHASE ff
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . OXC rEGWI                                                                                *   SIN MAN IOwS
S-                                                                    MUM-M tS                                                     
ZPJa               ^*  E cwa
W           W. Ws"    suISIrBIIImON                    -   Iso m
:           i *                                  ~~~~~~~~~~V wf.P2 IA               ~WIHl*f
Z_Sf- *   WIOC AOWHING ET   IS                    .A m... COI5o4S
f          ,                     P ORNILA BANGE EnIaBa!S                          ----DIcr EO£JABIS
_ /      jSEflIEMN AEAS WSP. 4I?                                               AOYMIGS ODA
~~ - :> -zZ,< t~vm~ Wmsm"w nouccumc                                   v                _._^n 
WV DITIA NAGA PIOUGIANO                                  SONIMAjTOA  O
W_-2 WJM                                        --"      WWAW EL PA
_    /      \          ~~SOUTHERN DARFUR   \,                    NORTHERN DAWFR   !
CENRA                 -\.  i 
AFRICAN             ,.    -                                             ,-8NRH
r EPUBLIC                                                                                *         E   EM..... IIAH  at G lA LA
CEI9T~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                   m   mRAP      4LOSK                                  mew    ,so x'  v
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sp e                                         AFRCA WS . i8                               mlvom     e_m
P.      d        ~ t               r. N.
K       /           s  ~~~~~00 2  x4 50 0 7030
ir             la.                       A-     'BASEMNT-                                                                                                a
''  '
ooz ... ~ ~     ~     ~                                                    -



^ t--w^
DMj           t                           .WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT PHASE 11
I                          eJ WATERYARD AND HAFIR LOCATION
S ,                  / \
/                             -  ~~~~~~~~~~WIP-I WNDARV               U  OUATIAION MMaR   ILS
______        ETH4MA  t1P Ue                            _W          fsouNmI                      _HA
maL%            -> ~. mOs 40 WAOUAEN                                                                U  twOi SmnI
nCW                                                          £ (   .  *  WIOC 1 NaDM Ta 0M        ,, ** WAIAID MAUnNiAE cRII
NJ"                            *                           -,~~~~~~to AWIFNITgm__ WRN
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~awQE .,va a vm                                                        awrl 5
-.-.-- \.~~                                    U   ULfND _ O   nJ      I IWII        - AU
TW  A 'll#X WfIH VMWASfnO IBOW )       VW= ----DOUN
/ . * n~~~~~~~~~~~oANEc. Crt o .w
h hU.-d I EL FASI_L
|           J              s         ~~~~~~SCUTHE&  DARFR R
!        r              ~              ~~~~                      ~~ ~~~ aNMA DWR                i
-fi   *   8                                        NORTHERN -DARFUR       NORTHERN
- -...                  - '-. ,-'  --   *   \KORDOFAN
-                         :~    SOUTHERN '
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A.~~~~~~~~.
CENTRAL
AFRICAN
REPUBLIC
} __o' / f .... j ~~~~~~~~~~EASRN BAHR B GHAZA
a i@ N  2S 97S1_
5  /  ;5!r Yr __ QP~~~~~~~mOa UI
-  



SUDAN
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT OF DEVELOPMENT
AMB REPUBLIC OF EIGYPT
LIBYA
I UIV-'-'-'~~                           ,
NOH _j NERN          -       w EO
DA-,;   aRFUR    NOTHERN     )        c,i|.
-  pIil Dutn Saad.                                        l
-;;FAN-
U.       U.~~~~~~~~~
SOTtE9                        °1-int)5t
DARFU1Rl                    sSst   UN  
Fr ffid g _ ~~~OU,THEIN
L ---         ---S-                 h+ e  .t~~~~~~



