SF1IAL           "DIT NUMBER 1640 SU
DOCUMENTS
ARC Project Agreement
(Western Savannah Project - Phase II)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1640 SU
ARC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             CkA QJkA,   )   , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION (ARC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Republic of the Sudan (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten
million   two    hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 10,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth    in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ARC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Fund and ODA to
provide additional financial assistance towards financing the
Project; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out, through its
Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project, Part E of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural


﻿- 2 -
ard research practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part E of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ARC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records   and  reports,   maintenance   and   land  acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the ARC Project Agreement and Part E
of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ARC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ARC of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. ARC shall ensure that all vehicles procured
under Part E of the Project will be diesel powered, unless other-
wise agreed by the Association on an exceptional basis.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
agricultural and research practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ARC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time


﻿-3 -
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, agricultural and research practices.
Section 3.03. ARC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ARC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ARC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, ARC shall:


﻿(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARC of this event.


﻿-5-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ARC:
Agricultural Research Corporation
c/o Western Sudan Agricultural
Research Project
P.O. Box 30
Khartoum-North, Sudan
Cable address:                   Telex:
WSARP                             22324
Khartoum, Sudan                  EIMAR FOR WSARP


﻿- 6 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARC, may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and ARC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   II    &L A
Regional Vic President
Eastern and Southern Africa
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
By   1     C1         R
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDILE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Research and laboratory equipment shall be procured under
contracts   awarded   through   limited   international   bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligi-
ble under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding para-
graphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Aircraft services may be contracted directly from an air-
charter company acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for


﻿- 8 -
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist ARC in carrying out Part E of the Pro-
ject, ARC shall employ animal production, soil and water con-
servation and economic specialists whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such specialists shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  -o        day of          ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


