                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003262




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-42510)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 104.1 MILLION
                         (US$ 148.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                                GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                       FOR A

            PUNJAB RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                    June 24, 2015




Water Global Practice
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective 05/27/2015)
           Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)
                    1.00 = US$ 63.99
                    US$ 1.00 = 0.016

                     FISCAL YEAR
                    April 01 - March 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DPMC         District Program Management Cell
DWSS         Department of Water Supply and Sanitation
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FC           Fully Covered
GoI          Government of India
GoP          Government of Punjab
GP           Gram Panchyat
GPWSC        Gram Panchyat Water and Sanitation Committee
HRD          Human Resources Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          Management Information System
MV           Multi-Vllage
NC           Not Covered
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PC           Partially Covered
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PRWSSP       Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ROI          Return on Investment
SNK          Shikayat Nivaran Kendra
SPMC         State Program Management Cell
SV           Single-Village
SWAp         Sector Wide Approach




                Vice President: Anette Dixon
             Country Director: Onno Ruhl
             Practice Manager: Parameswaran Iyer
         Project Team Leader: Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy
            ICR Team Leader: Pratibha Mistry
                                                               INDIA
                             Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project




                                                          CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 20
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 40
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 42
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 58
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 59
A. Basic Information
                                                                          IN Punjab Rural Water
Country:                India                   Project Name:
                                                                          Supply and Sanitation

Project ID:             P090592                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42510

ICR Date:               06/23/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR

                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          INDIA

Original Total
                        XDR 104.10M             Disbursed Amount:         XDR 89.88M
Commitment:

Revised Amount:         XDR 103.95M

Environmental Category: B

Implementing Agencies: Department of Water Supply and Sanitation

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)

Concept Review:       05/05/2005     Effectiveness:          03/26/2007          03/26/2007

                                                                                 12/09/2010
Appraisal:            08/14/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 09/12/2013

Approval:             12/14/2006     Mid-term Review:                            08/31/2011

                                     Closing:                03/31/2012          12/31/2014


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible

Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                      Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Moderately Satisfactory Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

    Implementation                                    QAG Assessments
                                   Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                         (if any)

 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          No                                              None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):

 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                   5                      5
Sanitation                                                              4                      4
Sub-national government administration                                  32                  32
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                                4                      4
Water supply                                                            55                  55


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Managing for development results                                        16                  16
Other human development                                                 17                  17
Participation and civic engagement                                      17                  17
Pollution management and environmental health                           17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                       33                  33
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval

Vice President:             Annette Dixon                       Praful C. Patel

Country Director:           Onno Ruhl                           Fayez S. Omar

Practice
                            Parameswaran Iyer                   Sonia Hammam
Manager/Manager:

Project Team Leader:        Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy           Ghanasham V. Abhyankar

ICR Team Leader:            Pratibha Mistry

ICR Primary Author:         Pratibha Mistry




F. Results Framework Analysis


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Increasing access of rural communities to improved and sustainable Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation services

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                              Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of habitations in the rural areas of the state (and each district) who are FC
Value             51%        (Estimate     at
quantitative or   appraisal)                  100%                                 88%
Qualitative)      43% (Revised baseline)
Date achieved     08/14/2006                  12/15/2006                           12/31/2014
Comments          This indicator measures performance across SWAp. The target was not fully
(incl. %          achieved since the estimate of the total number of FC habitations was revised after
achievement)      appraisal.
                  % of rural households in the state (and each district) with access to safe and
Indicator 2 :
                  adequate water throughout the year
Value
quantitative or 30.3%                     90%                               53.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                  12/15/2006                        12/31/2014
                This indicator is measured using a state-wide household survey that combines
Comments        households' reported usage of public water sources and perception of adequacy.
(incl. %        Even though households may have access to the public water source, they may not
achievement) use it since there is high prevalence of private borewalls in Punjab that supply
                water on deman, rather than during limited hours from public supply.
                % of participating habitations having satisfactorily performing community
Indicator 3 :
                sanitation facilities
Value
quantitative or Not applicable            90%                               96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                  12/15/2006                        12/31/2014
Comments        By project close the performance target for this indicator was exceeded with 97
(incl. %        out of the 98 constructed sewage treatment plants reported to be performing
achievement) satisfactorily.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                               Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                                documents)                     Target Years
                Participating habitations for schemes under SWAp as a % of total habitations with
Indicator 1 :
                a NC or PC status (cumulative habitations covered)
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable             100%                               58%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                   12/15/2006                         01/31/2015
                Based on performance across SWAp. The target was not fully achieved since the
Comments
                estimate of the total number of NC/PC habitations was revised after appraisal A
(incl. %
                total of 5,335 habitations were covered under SWAp, achieving 178% of the
achievement)
                original target.
                Participating habitations for performance improvements of existing SV/MV
Indicator 2 : schemes as a % of total habitations planned to be covered (cumulative habitations
                covered)
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable             100%                               600%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                   12/15/2006                         02/28/2015
                This indicator measures performance across SWAp. The target for the number of
Comments
                performance monitoring schemes was formally revised from 1,600 to 200 at
(incl. %
                restructuring. By the project close 1,200 schemes were covered for performance
achievement)
                improvement.
                % of resources disbursed to participating GPs that are utilized in time in relation
Indicator 3 :
                to implementation phase of scheme cycle
Value
(quantitative     Not applicable           90%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/14/2006               12/15/2006                        01/31/2015
Comments
                  The target was exceeded and financial disbursements delivered to GPs were fully
(incl. %
                  utilized by project close.
achievement)
                  % of participating GPs/GPWSCs with high or medium rating for operational
Indicator 4 :
                  sustainability of their schemes
Value
                                                                             66% for IDA
(quantitative   Baseline not available       90%
                                                                             38% for non-IDA
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                     12/15/2006                      01/31/2015
                GPWSCs which secure more than 50 marks in the sustainability score for IDA
Comments
                financed SWAp schemes. Target not fully achieved and IDA schemes performed
(incl. %
                significantly better than non-IDA schemes in the SWAp. A target for 90%
achievement)
                sustainability is not realistic
Indicator 5 : % of participating GPWSCs meeting the full O&M costs through user charges
Value
(quantitative   27.8%                        100%                            74.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                     12/15/2006                      01/31/2015
                Attainment of 74% of GPWSCs meeting full O&M cost recovery is a substantial
Comments
                project achievement. Target for 100% cost recovery is not realistic, especially in
(incl. %
                a first stage project where community development approaches were introduced
achievement)
                for the first time.
                % of participating GPWSCs of Multi-Village (MV) schemes with a billing to
Indicator 6 :
                collection ratio of &gt;90% for bulk charges
Value
(quantitative   No baseline available        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                     12/15/2006                      07/31/2011
                Based on last SPN mission, reported 106 MV schemes with a 100% billing
Comments
                collection ratio. Estimated about 70% of habitations would demand MV schemes,
(incl. %
                demand for Single Village schemes during supervision by far exceeded the
achievement)
                demand for MV schemes
Indicator 7 : % of water schemes under SWAp completed within planned time and costs
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable               95%                             99%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                     12/15/2006                      01/31/2015
Comments
                Project management and implementation was successfully completed and
(incl. %
                exceeded the target at appraisal
achievement)
                % of participating GPWSCs achieving planned performance improvements
Indicator 8 :
                measured 6 months after completion
Value
                Not applicable               95%                             Not reported
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/14/2006                12/15/2006                     01/31/2015
Comments          Performance improvements were completed towards the end of the project and
(incl. %          there was insufficient time remaining in the project to measure GPWSC
achievement)      performance against this indicator
Indicator 9 :     % of new community sanitation schemes completed within planned time and costs
Value
(quantitative     Not applicable           95%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/14/2006               12/15/2006                       01/31/2015
Comments
                  98 sewage schemes were completed by the project close within planned time and
(incl. %
                  costs and the target at appraisal was exceeded.
achievement)
                  Number of other water service providers that the project is supporting (GPWSC)
Indicator 10 :
                  (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative     0                                                         1523
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   08/14/2006                                                   12/31/2014
Comments        Core IDA indicator, introduced mid-course as a corporate requirement and no
(incl. %        targets were formally agreed. This figure corresponds to all GPWSCs supported
achievement)    through the IDA financing.
                New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 11 :
                intervention (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   77,089                                                       310,824
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                                                     01/31/2015
Comments
                Core IDA indicator, introduced mid-course as a corporate requirement and no
(incl. %
                targets were formally agreed.
achievement)
                Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project
Indicator 12 :
                (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   0                                                            395
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                                                     12/31/2014
Comments
                Core IDA indicator, introduced mid-course as a corporate requirement and no
(incl. %
                targets were formally agreed.
achievement)
                Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation works
Indicator 13 :
                undertaken by the project (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   0                                                            76,888
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/14/2006                                                     12/31/2014
Comments        Core IDA indicator, introduced mid-course as a corporate requirement and no
(incl. %        targets were formally agreed.
achievement)
                  Number of people in rural areas provided with access to Improved Water Sources
Indicator 14 :
                  under the project (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative     0                                                         1,862,557
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/14/2006                                                12/31/2014
Comments
                  Core IDA indicator, introduced mid-course as a corporate requirement and no
(incl. %
                  targets were formally agreed.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                       IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2007              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       5.00
  2     12/18/2007             Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      5.00
  3     06/27/2008             Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      5.20
  4     12/30/2008      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                 16.77
  5     05/25/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                 18.42
  6     06/23/2009      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 19.39
  7     07/29/2009      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 19.39
  8     01/29/2010      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 21.19
  9     09/04/2010              Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 31.48
 10     05/07/2011              Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 48.62
 11     07/05/2011              Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 48.62
 12     01/08/2012              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      63.40
 13     04/05/2012              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      70.46
 14     12/10/2012      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 82.00
 15     03/01/2013      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                 90.34
 16     06/17/2013      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 99.47
 17     12/21/2013      Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     113.80
 18     04/22/2014              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     125.44
 19     10/18/2014              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     129.32
 20     02/04/2015              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     138.07
H. Restructuring (if any)


                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The following changes were
                                                     made: (i) the original target of
                                                     1600 FC habitations for
                                                     performance improvement was
                                                     revised to 200 habitations; (ii)
                                                     the district level contingency
                                                     fund was removed; (iii) the pilot
                                                     testing of innovative water
                                                     treatment technologies was
  12/09/2010       N         S    MS         36.02
                                                     removed; (iv) 1,000 habitations
                                                     targeted for upgrading drains
                                                     and rehabilitation of ponds was
                                                     dropped      to     focus      on
                                                     environmental sanitation in 100
                                                     habitations with waste water
                                                     treatment plants; (v) the closing
                                                     date was extended from March
                                                     31, 2012 to December 31, 2013
                                                     The closing date was extended
  09/12/2013                MS    MS        104.17   by one year from December 31,
                                                     2013 to December 31, 2014.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.       State Background: Punjab is a northwestern State of India, bordering Pakistan to the west.
Punjab was at the forefront of India’s green revolution, which drove economic growth during the
sixties and the seventies, and made Punjab one of India's most prosperous and developed state.
Wide-spread communal violence, bifurcation and insurgency up to the late 1990s stalled economic
growth and led to rapid expansion of the state administration, mounting revenue expenditure to
maintain law and order, an inability to enforce effective tax administration and subsequent high
levels of debt. Intensive agricultural production came at an environmental cost with falling
groundwater levels from over-abstraction for irrigation and high levels of pollution from excessive
fertilizer and pesticide use. The agrarian social structure was dominated by wealthy owner farmers
and in-migration of labor from other States. The agricultural labor force mostly comprised of
Scheduled castes1 who made up 30% of the population (the highest among all States in India). The
State government adopted the fiscally and environmentally unsustainable policy of free power and
water for farmers until 2002, when a process of reforms reversed this policy and moved towards
decentralization to improve the quality of public services.
2.       Decentralization: In spite of the Panchyati Raj local government system being formally
introduced in Punjab in 1961, the actual devolution of powers and responsibilities to local
governments was constrained by the dominant feudal social structure of the State. With the
introduction of the constitutional provision for the Panchayati Raj Institutions under the 73rd
Constitutional Amendment in 1992, the State’s decentralization mandate was consolidated under
the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act 1994. While in principle the decentralization policy provided for
the transfer of twenty nine functions to Panchayati Raj Institutions, not much had been achieved in
practice. To implement the decentralization policy approved by the Council of Ministers in 2003,
the Government of Punjab (GoP) devolved the functions and responsibilities for implementing the
programs of six state departments, including the Department of Water Supply and Sanitation
(DWSS)2. Rural water supply and sanitation came under the responsibility of the Gram Panchayats
(GPs), who were empowered to construct, repair and maintain community assets. Response to the
first phase of decentralization of 874 Single-Village schemes was mixed: 102 GPs did not agree to
take over the schemes in their habitations, and of those schemes that were transferred, 126 GPs
returned scheme management to DWSS. By project appraisal it was found that only 308 of the
remaining schemes were operating. In most cases schemes were not well operated and GPs were
not able to recover costs.
3.      Sector context: Even though more than 80% of habitations had access to public water
sources, more than half of households did not use it as their primary drinking water source3. Poor
performance of public schemes led households to access drinking water from shallow bore wells



1 The Scheduled Castes (SCs), also known as the Dalit, is a grouping of historically disadvantaged people that are given

express recognition in the Constitution of India. SC dominated habitations are those habitations in which the Scheduled
Caste population is equal to or more than 40% of the total population. This definition has been adopted by the Ministry
of Drinking Water & Sanitation for purposes of monitoring the implementation of the National Rural Drinking Water
Program.
2 Previously Department of Public Health

3 83.3% habitations had public water sources. However, only 47.3% households reported using public water source.
(Baseline Survey, 2009)


                                                           1
with handpumps on their premises4, which were highly susceptible to bacterial pollution from poor
sanitation conditions. Sixty percent of households did not have latrines5. Sanitation facilities were
generally septic tanks with effluent flowing directly into open drains, resulting in degradation of
the village environment and pollution of village ponds. Long term sustainability of public schemes
was limited by institutional, operational and financing arrangements that favored new construction
over ongoing operation and maintenance (O&M). DWSS had a highly centralized decision-making
and approvals structure, a high O&M cost structure, and little priority and accountability for
ensuring customer satisfaction. Capacity at local government level was limited and new schemes
were planned and built with little participation from beneficiaries.
4.      Policy Context: The central government was a significant source of funds in the sector
and a proponent of the community-led, demand-responsive approach from a national policy
perspective with the Sector Reform Project in 1999 and the Swajaldhara Program in 2003. Together
with the Total Sanitation Campaign, these centrally sponsored programs were the Government of
India’s (GoI) means to expand and spread the approach country-wide to achieve the Millenium
Development Goals. GoP had an ambitious vision to cover all habitations in Punjab with water
supply from individual household connections and providing modern waste water collection and
disposal systems, estimated at US $ 1.2 billion over a 15 year period. A Medium Term Program,
backed by a State water policy, was developed to improve coverage of water supply and
environmental sanitation, underpinned by decentralization principles approved by the Punjab
Cabinet, including decentralizing rural water supply and sanitation service responsibility to GPs
and user groups with full financing of recurrent O&M costs by user communities. This approach
was to be adopted state-wide, and represented a significant departure from the conventional top-
down supply-driven approach that was the established practice at that time.
5.      Rationale for Bank assistance. The overarching premise of the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy for the period FY05-08 was to maximize and leverage the diverse resources of
the Bank to scale up its impact and help India move closer to achieving the Millennium
Development Goals. The Bank was actively engaged in the rural water supply and sanitation sector
in India since 1991, helping to pilot and scale up Government of India’s sector reforms in
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Kerala. The Punjab Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project (PRWSSP) was considered a third generation of World Bank rural water
supply and sanitation projects that advanced the decentralization and sustainability agenda through
the use of a sector-wide approach (SWAp). The Bank’s support moved from a traditional project-
based approach to a programmatic approach supporting agreed sector strategies, policies, systems
and procedures. The SWAp approach was based on the use of a common framework for planning,
implementation, expenditure, and monitoring and evaluation across the State, irrespective of the
source of funding or the implementing agency6.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6.     The PDO as approved was: To assist GoP in increasing access of rural communities to
improved and sustainable rural water supply and sanitation services.




4 82% of the population had access to water within the house (2001 Household Survey).
5 Census of India, 2001 Household Tables reported in Project Appraisal Document

6 Review of World Bank Support to the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector In India (1991 - 2011), World Bank

and Water and Sanitation Program, October 2012.


                                                       2
7.         The key outcome indicators were:
      i.   Percentage of habitations7 in the rural areas of Punjab that are fully covered (FC) for access
           to drinking water;
     ii.   Percentage of rural households in the state with access to safe and adequate drinking water
           supply throughout the year; and
    iii.   Percentage of participating habitations having satisfactorily performing community
           sanitation facilities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
8.         The PDO and key indicators were not modified.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
9.       The SWAp was to benefit about 3,000 habitations in all 19 districts of Punjab8. The primary
beneficiaries were about 7.4 million people (about 46% the State’s rural population), particularly
vulnerable communities like Scheduled Castes (SCs), and those living in hilly areas and along the
international border, who made up about 40% of the State’s population. Secondary beneficiaries
were GPs and Gram Panchayat Water and Sanitation Committees (GPWSCs) that were to be
strengthened to participate in the construction and management of the schemes on an ongoing basis;
and DWSS, which was to be strengthened to adopt the community driven approach to water supply
services across the sector.

1.5 Original Components
10.       Component A: Program Management (US$ 31.4 million): The objective of this
component was to establish the institutional structure for project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation capability to measure progress and capacity building to enable government and
community stakeholders to carry out the community driven approach. This component financed
the (i) investment and operating costs to support project implementation activities for the provision
of SWAp program management support to the State Project Management Cell (SPMC) and District
Project Management Cells (DPMCs); (ii) establishment and operation of the SWAp Program's
monitoring and evaluation system, including: the development and operation of a management
information system; carrying out of outcome monitoring surveys; preparation of implementation
performance reports; GPWSC awards; and the design and operationalization of water quality
monitoring systems; (iii) carrying out of capacity building programs for DWSS, SPMC, DPMCs
and Support Organizations in the planning and implementation of SWAp program activities,
including change management and team building; knowledge enhancement; participatory
processes; engineering design and construction practices; environmental management;
procurement; management of consultants and contractors; financial management; skills training
and operations and maintenance of rural water supply and sanitation sector schemes (iv) carrying
out of information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns aimed at rural water supply and


7 Habitation is a term used to define a group of families living in proximity to each other, within a village. It could have
either heterogeneous or homogenous demographic pattern. There can be more than one habitation in a village but not
vice versa.
8 Punjab had a total rural population of 16.1 million people and a total of 12,278 GPs or villages (Census 2001)




                                                             3
sanitation sector stakeholders; (v) pilot testing of innovative technologies in the rural water supply
and sanitation sector.
11.       Component B: Community Development (US$ 24.4 million): This component provided
technical assistance to communities for carrying out the scheme cycle. Under this component the
project financed (i) the provision of technical assistance to support village communities and build
capacity in respect of the project activities carried out under Component C, including community
mobilization and the development and management of rural water supply and sanitation sector
facilities and services; (ii) provision of technical assistance to support engineering design and
construction supervision for carrying out activities under Component C.
12.      Component C: Infrastructure Building (US$ 98.2 million): Under this component the
project financed the costs of infrastructure: (i) construction and upgrading of rural water supply
schemes in about 3,000 habitations in Punjab which are not covered or are only partially covered
by such schemes; (ii) carrying out a program aimed at achieving sustained quality improvements
in rural water supply services, consisting of: the provision of goods and works to support the
upgrading of existing single-village and multi-village rural water supply schemes, including the
provision and installation of bulk water meters in multi-village water supply schemes and the
establishment of a district level contingency fund; and the pilot testing of innovative water
treatment technologies related to reverse osmosis, defloridation plants, and portable water treatment
plants (iii) provision of goods and works to support the construction or upgrading of community
sanitation schemes, including the upgrading of village drains and rehabilitation of village ponds in
about 1,000 selected habitations, and the construction of small bore sewers and sewerage schemes
in about 100 selected habitations.

1.6 Revised Components
13.   Changes to Component C: A Level 2 restructuring was approved by the Board on 9
December 2010, where the following changes were made to Component C:
  i. The original target of 1,600 FC habitations for performance improvement was revised to 200
     habitations because it was found that FC habitations were less willing to take over operation
     and maintenance (O&M) from the DWSS and contribute the same amount as beneficiaries
     in NC and PC habitations who received new systems.
  ii. The establishment of a district level contingency fund to be managed by the DPMCs to meet
      any emergency requirements in GPWSC or DWSS managed schemes was not required.
 iii. The pilot testing of innovative water treatment technologies related to reverse osmosis,
      defloridation plants, and portable water treatment plants was not required. The installation of
      392 reverse osmosis plants through public-private partnership in quality affected habitations
      was financed from GoP’s own funds. Fluoride levels were found to be within permissible
      limits and defluoridization plants were not required.
 iv. The 1,000 habitations targeted for upgrading drains and rehabilitation of ponds was dropped
     to address environmental sanitation issues comprehensively in 100 habitations where small
     bore sewerage schemes were implemented. The rehabilitation of sullage drains and village
     ponds in the remaining habitations was to be supported by GoI through the liquid waste
     management component of the Total Sanitation Campaign.




                                                  4
1.7 Other significant changes
14.     Reduction in beneficiary share: Cost sharing rules were revised in November 2008 from
10% of the capital cost for the general category and 5% to scheduled classes9, to a nominal flat rate
of Rs.800 for the general category and Rs.400 for scheduled castes. In the initial stages of project
implementation it was found that beneficiaries were not willing to contribute labor and the cash
component was considered to be unaffordable.
15.      Level 2 Restructuring: December 9, 2010. In addition to the changes in Component C
described in Section 1.6, the following additional changes were made at restructuring: (i) Program
cost escalations10 led to the reallocation of the savings from changes in Component C and the
counterpart share was increased from the GoI National Rural Drinking Water Program; and (ii) the
closing date was extended by 21 months from March 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013 to provide
sufficient time to achieve the project targets.
16.     Level 2 Restructuring: August 27, 2013. The project was restructured for the second time
to ensure completion of ongoing activities. The closing date was extended by one year from
December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
17.      Incorporation of lessons learned: The project was the eighth rural water supply and
sanitation project in the Bank’s India portfolio to follow a demand driven, decentralized approach
and benefitted from the extensive project experience and analytical work in the sector11. These
showed that the sustainability challenge was best addressed by involving communities in the design,
construction and operation of schemes, and ensuring firm commitment by communities directly
contributing to capital costs and paying tariffs to cover operations and maintenance costs. It was
on this premise that the project designs included beneficiary involvement and empowerment;
institutional reform and capacity building of state and local governments, and communities; the
active participation of NGOs; promotion of cost recovery; and targeting of services to the poorest
areas and vulnerable groups.
18.     Soundness of the background analysis: In spite of the extensive global and national level
implementation experience that informed the project design, it was recognized at the design stage
that putting community driven development principles into practice presented significant local
challenges and steps were taken to ensure adaptation of the concepts to the Punjab context. The


9
  The project’s capital cost sharing rule followed the GoI’s Swajaldhara program, where users financed at least 10% of
the capital cost of the scheme. Scheduled Caste villages, villages in hilly areas and in international border/ flood prone
zone were required to pay 5% of the capital cost. To ensure affordability, an upper ceiling of Rs.1500 per household was
applied. Beneficiaries could pay their contribution in kind, for example by contributing labor to the scheme.
10 An increase in total SWAp program cost from US$ 261.4 million to US$ 351.3 million was attributed to: (i) community

demand for single village schemes was 95% as opposed to 30% assumed at appraisal; (ii) the water distribution network
costs increased to maximize private connections; (iii) digital surveys were introduced for accurate mapping; (iv) silver
ionization plants were introduced for disinfection in place of traditional bleaching powder based plants; (v) increased
cost of canal based water schemes due to longer bulk water supply distances and increased pumping requirements; (vi)
escalation of input costs like labor, steel, cement, bricks, PVC pipes and other manufactured items.
11 Analytical work included: India: Bridging the Gap between Infrastructure and Service in 2006; a Review of

Effectiveness of Rural Water Supply Schemes in India in 2006 and the World Bank Operations Evaluation Department's
Impact Evaluation Report of five Bank-assisted India rural water supply and sanitation projects in 1998.


                                                            5
project benefited from a well-designed scheme cycle that encompassed all activities in a habitation
to be done within a specific time frame. The scheme cycle was piloted during preparation in 85
habitations to gain experience in conducting a demand driven, decentralized, participatory planning
process in Punjab, and tested arrangements to operationalize project rules and procedures. In
addition, preparation activities included the development of capacity building plans,
communications plans, a comprehensive project implementation plan and operational manual, and
social assessments.
19.      Lending instrument and Sector-wide approach (SWAp): The financing instrument was
a Specific Investment Loan of US$ 154 million equivalent, designed on the principles of a sector-
wide approach. By adopting the SWAp it was agreed that all subsequent public funding for the
sector was to support a single sector policy 12 irrespective of the source of financing. A legal
covenant was included to this effect, limiting non-SWAp investments for ongoing schemes to a
maximum of US$ 102 million. The SWAp approach was based on the use of a common framework
for planning, implementation, expenditure, and monitoring and evaluation across the State,
including harmonization of financial management arrangements 13 . Actual sector investment
financing from 2006 to 2014 showed that SWAp made up 80% of the total investment financing in
the sector, and the remaining 20 percent (about US$ 64 million) was financed by the National Bank
for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for completing ongoing schemes that were not
subject to the SWAp principles.
20.       Assessment of risks: The overall project risk was rated as Substantial, driven by
substantial risks related to the effect of elections on project implementation and resistance from
DWSS field engineers. These risks did manifest in the early years of implementation. Mitigation
measures like lobbying the new government and change management initiatives for DWSS were
actively pursued during supervision, though project delays were not avoided. Fiduciary risks were
analyzed separately as part of the respective financial management and procurement assessments.
Financial management risks were rated Substantial, driven by the weak capacity for accounting and
reporting that existed at the GP level and procurement risk was rated High since DWSS did not
have specific capacity for World Bank procurement procedures. Many of these risks were mitigated
by extensive training and capacity building activities for DWSS and GPWSCs. The risk of funds
intended for the project being diverted by the State treasury for other purposes was recognized and
a legal covenant was included for GoP to make project funds available to DWSS within two weeks
of its request. However this was not an effective mitigation measure and flow of funds to the project
delayed project implementation.

2.2 Implementation
21.     Implementation Delays: The project had a slow start, disbursing only 13% of the loan in
the first two years of implementation. This was attributed to a lack of government and


12 The Medium Term Program (MTP) was developed with the following objectives: (i) coverage of all Not Covered (NC)

and Partially Covered (PC) villages to reach at least a Fully Covered (FC) status, (ii) ensuring sustainability of water
supply services, and (iii) initiating measures to improve village level environmental sanitation. These were underpinned
by decentralization principles as described in the sector policy approved by the Punjab Cabinet: (i) decentralizing intra-
village rural water supply and sanitation service responsibility to GPs and user groups; (ii) changing the role of DWSS
from direct service delivery to facilitation and capacity building of GP and user groups; (iii) introducing partial capital
cost sharing by users as an expression of their demand; and (iv) full financing of recurrent O&M costs by user
communities.
13 Including budgeting, funds flow, accounting & accounting policies, internal control, internal audit, concurrent audit &

external audit and capacity building support to GPWSCs for financial management.


                                                            6
implementing agency commitment. DWSS continued with the implementation of the Medium
Term Program under non-SWAp financing. Implementers were not convinced of the ability of GPs
to undertake the proposed responsibilities and viewed the concept as a dilution of their own powers
and functions. The first water supply scheme was commissioned 15 months after the project
approval and it was 18 months before the agreed institutional arrangements were in place. The
project became effective after being negotiated with ministers from an outgoing government, and
the new political leadership was not in favor of the SWAp. The political risk from elections was
recognized at appraisal as difficult to mitigate, and the Bank undertook strong advocacy for the
project and increased exposure to national and international successes. Once convinced of the value
of the program, the political leadership took strong action to resolve these issues and the project
implementation gained momentum. The project thereafter was well-implemented, and the
implementing agency consistently exceeded implementation targets.
22.      Disbursement delays: Fiscal constraints in Punjab delayed project implementation in
several instances and the project faced severe funds shortfall, at one time for as long as five months.
Payment delays reduced the pace of implementation and affected the morale of project staff and
contractors who were not being paid for extended periods. This was resolved by the government in
cooperation with the Bank by improving project cash flows by increasing the frequency of
processing withdrawal applications.
23.     Staffing: The project was designed to undertake community mobilization through
intensive Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns with Support
Organizations. These were intended to be an extensive field based social development network
with the ability to scale up as needed. The State did not have a large active civil society as was the
case in other States and implementation effectiveness was hampered by poor performance of
inexperienced Support Organizations and strained relationships with DWSS. The function was
incorporated into the SPMC and DPMC structure by recruiting staff with IEC, and Human
Resources Development (HRD) skills. The creation of in-house capacity was an important element
for building the relationship between DWSS and communities. It led to the recognition within
DWSS that social development was an important element of water supply provision and
sustainability, and eventually led to further mainstreaming of the function within DWSS in the
follow on project. However, the rapid expansion of project implementation after initial delays, and
the need to support the full SWAp implementation meant that the level of staffing for HRD and
IEC, as well as salary levels and supporting infrastructure like vehicles, remained inadequate
through the project life.
24.     Implementation of the SWAp: The intention of SWAp was to deepen reforms by
influencing sector expenditure beyond the confines of the IDA project. The SWAp sought to
harmonize the community development approach, as espoused in the State sector policy, by
carrying out the program through the established line agency, using government procedures and
agreed common systems to the extent possible. However, the SWAp was not uniformly
implemented. SWAp schemes were differentiated on the basis of the source of financing as IDA
and non-IDA schemes. IDA schemes were implemented in accordance with the project design, and
funds were transferred directly from SPMC and DPMCs to the GPWSCs. For GoI funds, however,
allotment of contracts and payments were made by the Executive Engineers. In addition, due to the
shortage of IEC and HRD staff, non-IDA schemes were more likely to benefit from full IEC/HRD
support if they were located in close proximity to IDA schemes. Even though in both cases
communities made an undertaking to participate in SWAp by providing contributions up front, non-
IDA schemes did not require signed MoUs between DWSS and GPWSCs at handover detailing the
roles and responsibilities of each party for the O&M phase. As a result of these differences


                                                  7
community ownership and sustainability differed across the SWAp between IDA and non-IDA
financed schemes.
25.      Beneficiary participation: The project design had a defined ranking and selection process
to govern the demand driven habitation selection process by placing an advertisement in the local
daily newspapers prior to the commencement of each batch, informing of the project and seeking
an expression of interest from willing GPs. Early advertisements did not yield adequate responses,
and the project selected habitations by DPMC/DWSS teams selecting underserved areas and
informing habitations individually. Villagers showed willingness to participate by passing a GP
resolution agreeing to the project principles. Communities were slow to sign up at first since there
was a culture of non-payment and were reluctant to make capital and O&M contributions. The
project allowed for community contributions to be both in cash and labor, but labor contributions
were not readily accepted in Punjab as in other States. Cost sharing rules were revised in November
2008, and together with strong political support and increased IEC activities, contributed to
improved demand.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
26.     M&E design: Monitoring and evaluation tools, including indicators and methodologies
for gathering information to monitor inputs, outputs, and scheme and household level outcomes,
were developed. In addition to the development of a comprehensive management information
system, the project design included the following evaluation tools to measure outcomes and
intermediate results: (i) a baseline habitation survey conducted by DWSS as per the GoI guidelines
in 2003 (ii) sample household surveys at baseline, mid-line and end-line to capture the household
level outcomes (iii) a sustainability assessment once a year for all participating habitations to assess
operational sustainability of water supply schemes and satisfactory performance of sanitation
schemes.
27.      The PDO captured the sector development objective of the project that was important for
the country and furthered the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy. However, it placed equal
emphasis on water and sanitation sector objectives that was not consistent with the project design,
where the focus was primarily on improving water supply services. Indicators in the results
framework were relevant and displayed the causal linkage between infrastructure outputs and
household and scheme level sustainability outcomes. Many indicators were designed as
percentages, where the numerators and denominators were not specifically defined, and based on
estimates that were subject to change during implementation. Targets were stretch-targets that were
difficult to attain completely and no corrections were made as data became available, in spite of
the project being restructured twice over its implementation period.
28.      M&E implementation: A comprehensive online MIS system used by DWSS has been
operational since March 2012. It consists of modules covering most aspects of DWSS’s monitoring
activities, including finance, procurement, inventory management, human resources, and project
management. A MIS cell was established in SPMC to oversee the overall monitoring for the whole
department. The MIS is still to be integrated with the GoI Ministry of Drinking Water and
Sanitation system Integrated Management Information System (IMIS), resulting in parallel data
entry systems for divisional offices and data inconsistencies. Baseline, mid-line and end-line
household surveys provided a measure of state-wide sector performance. The sustainability
assessment was a positive initiative introduced by the project to measure the sustainability of
schemes in a pragmatic and comparative way, and has been mainstreamed and institutionalized as
part of the routine monitoring program.


                                                   8
29.     M&E utilization: Reports in the form of data tables are generated and increasingly
mainstreamed, and used for compliance and planning purposes by the District Superintending
Engineers, DPMCs and SPMC. Quarterly reports focus on routine program implementation and are
submitted by SPMC to the Bank. Data quality issues are being managed and the MIS is not yet
exclusively used for all data related functions across the DWSS. The system currently does not
have any data analytics and visualization capability, and further development of the MIS system is
planned under the follow on project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
30.      Financial Management. A notable feature of the project, which strongly supported the
decentralization agenda, was that a significant portion of the expenditure was incurred at the
community level. Procurement, contract management and management of funds for as much as
74%14 of the overall project resources was in the hands of the GPWSCs, with DWSS officials
providing capacity support and guidance in the procurement process. The project successfully
transferred implementation responsibility to the GPWSCs, with adequate oversight from DWSS
for procurement as a joint check co-signatory for payments and by the use of a charted accounting
firm for concurrent audit during implementation of each sub-project. Constant, widespread and
long ranging investment in capacity building of habitation level functionaries and DWSS staff on
the project objectives and guidelines resulted in good implementation readiness at the field level.
31.     The Project closed with a Satisfactory rating for Financial Management. The use of State
accounting and auditing systems meant that minimal investment was required for system design
and training of staff. The project engaged a chartered accountant for concurrent financial audit of
the project implementation at the GPWSC level. Internal audits of DPMCs were carried out by a
chartered accountant once in a year. The Accountant General of Punjab also conducted audits of
the funds and expenditures of the project. Audits were usually on time and in the context of the
project scope, there were no major findings. The response on audit findings was reasonable,
appropriate and timely. Interim Unaudited Financial Reports were of good quality and provided on
time. All Bank financed projects in Punjab faced the issue of diversion of earmarked funds by the
State Treasury due to fiscal pressures. This was identified as a risk during preparation and the
mitigation measure of including a covenant that funds be transferred to the project within two weeks
and including review by project internal audit were not effective. The release of funds to the project
was significantly delayed at times during the implementation, requiring consistent follow up by the
Bank.
32.     Procurement. The project was implemented in accordance with the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines, May 2004. A Procurement Manual for the project was prepared and
approved by World Bank in September 2006. A copy of the manual was hosted on the project
website. The SPMC included a procurement wing which was to be staffed by an Executive
Engineer, a sub-divisional engineer and a procurement specialist. However staffing was limited
and the procurement wing was manned by a single executive engineer for most of the
implementation period. Extensive procurement training was provided to DWSS engineers at Chief
Engineer, Executive Engineer and Sub Divisional Engineer levels. Staff turnover within the SPMC
over the life of the project and changes within the Bank team presented challenges in institutional
memory and consistency of practice.


14 As per the November 2014 Interim Unaudited Financial Report, total project expenditure was Rs. 8,457,300,000 out

of which GPWSCs spent Rs. 6,284,700,000 or 74.31%.


                                                        9
33.      The project closed with a Satisfactory rating for Procurement. No specific observations on
procurement procedures were made in the audit reports. Post procurement reviews of contracts on
a sample basis was conducted annually by an independent procurement consultant hired by the
project, and the Bank conducted annual post procurement review of contracts signed. These reviews
found procedural inconsistencies, such as award of the contract after the expiry of the bid validity
period, incorrect evaluations, bid security being deficient in value, delayed payments, and
insufficient advertising which were addressed by increased training. Low bidder participation was
prevalent throughout the project implementation period, and was addressed by relaxing the
qualification criteria, repackaging bids, organizing bidders’ conferences and introducing e–
procurement. From September 2010 DWSS undertook the use of e-tendering as a standard for all
works. Further efficiency and transparency was introduced by the use of e-tendering at the GP level
for IDA funded schemes from September 2012.
34.    Safeguards: The project was classified as a Category B project and was not expected to
have significant adverse environmental and social impacts. Only OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment was triggered: Changes at restructuring did not trigger any new safeguard policies.
35.     Environmental Safeguards: An Environmental Management Framework was developed
and updated at restructuring to accommodate the revised scope of sanitation works. The project
was compliant with the Environmental Management Framework. Environmental Data Sheets were
prepared at the pre-planning and planning stages, half-yearly environmental monitoring was
conducted for water supply schemes and quarterly for sewerage schemes, and reports were shared
with the Bank. The Environmental Management Framework developed for the project has been
adopted across the state irrespective of the funding agency. Scheme based environmental
management plans were developed and responsibility for their implementation was included in the
construction contracts. Environmental Audit formats were finalized in December 2013 and audits
were conducted by the State Water and Sanitation Mission’s Environmental Specialist, DPMC staff
and GPWSCs. The SPMC has completed environmental audit of 50% of completed schemes.
Capacity building and environmental awareness training was conducted by SPMC.
36.      Innovative interventions were developed within the community based approach to enhance
environmental management and sustainability. Awareness of environmental issues, like
environmental protection, water conservation, household and village environmental sanitation,
solid waste management, and health and hygiene promotion was created using IEC. Communities
engaged in tree planting, landscaping, and maintaining public drains. Communities’ recognition of
the value of improved environmental conditions was demonstrated by their willingness to share the
cost of environmental management in schemes and donating land for sewage treatment plants.
37.      A water quality monitoring program was established by the State, funded by the GoI
National Rural Drinking Water Program. The project financed two consultancies to support water
quality monitoring for: (i) the development of a water quality monitoring system to be integrated
with the MIS system, and (ii) the preparation of District Wise Water Quality Resource Maps of 16
districts of the state developed by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre.
38.     Social Safeguards: No social safeguard policies were triggered since no land was acquired
involuntarily and there are no tribal populations in Punjab. Therefore a social safeguards framework
was not required. Land was donated by the GPWSCs for the siting of infrastructure for development
of water sources and overhead tanks, and waste water treatment plants.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase



                                                10
39.      PRWSSP has created an enabling institutional structure and firm demonstration of the GPs’
ability to participate, operate and maintain their own infrastructure. The project has demonstrated
the effectiveness of extending access using a community driven approach and the benefits of long
term sustainability when schemes provide a level of service that beneficiaries value and are willing
to pay for. Further institutional strengthening of DWSS to mainstream the community driven
approach, provide ongoing technical support to GPWSCs, and monitor scheme performance in the
follow on project will assure the long term sustainability of investments.
40.      The GoP recognized the need to maintain the project momentum, strengthen and deepen
reforms and meet further sector challenges faced by the State. Building on the demonstration that
higher levels of service were achievable in the State, the follow on project will extend 10 hours
water supply per day, 100 percent household connections and volumetric tariffs in 570 habitations,
extend household connections to 650,000 households, and institute sustainability improvements in
schemes that are underperforming due to a lack of operational capacity in the GPWSCs. In addition,
the State has undertaken a more comprehensive approach to sanitation by extending access to
latrines, triggering sanitation and hygiene behavior change, and targeting the reduction of open
defecation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
41.      Relevance of Objectives: High. The project’s objectives, design and implementation
remain highly relevant to the sector context in India and in Punjab. The project has been
instrumental in informing the Punjab State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (Gazette
Publication May 16, 2014), which institutionalizes the community driven approach to achieve
service delivery objectives15. The project remains highly relevant in the context of the GoI, where
the most recent 12th Five-Year Plan (2012–17) calls for major investments in infrastructure,
including water and sanitation, as a pathway to increased growth and poverty reduction. The central
government remains a significant source of funds through the National Rural Drinking Water
Program. In addition to extending access to safe water to rural areas, the National Rural Drinking
Water Program’s objectives include providing an enabling environment for Panchayat Raj
Institutions and local communities to manage their own drinking water sources and systems in their
habitations, and enable communities to monitor and keep surveillance of their drinking water
sources16. The project also remains relevant to the World Bank Group’s India Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) 2013–2017 under the Strategic Engagement Area 2: Transformation Outcome 2.3
Improved access to water supply and sanitation services. The project’s strong alignment with the
CPS on transformation and inclusiveness supports achievement of the World Bank Group’s twin



15 The State’s policy objectives include: (i) to provide 100% of rural households with at least 70lpcd of potable water
supplied through 24x7 piped and metered individual water supply connections; (ii) to ensure 100% rural households
access to and use of safe sanitation facilities; (iii) to ensure the availability, quality and sustainability of domestic water
supplies by conserving existing water sources, improving the efficiency of existing schemes and their financial viability;
(iv) to ensure effective participation of users in developing, operating and maintaining water supply services and to
empower them to manage their own water supply and environmental sanitation services; and (v) to improve the
institutional capacity and human resources of government departments to provide efficient, effective and sustainable
water and sanitation services by working with empowered and capacitated local communities.
16 National Rural Drinking Water Program: Movement towards ensuring people’s Drinking Water Security in Rural India.

Guidelines, 2013


                                                             11
goals of ending extreme poverty by targeting unserved and under-served communities, and
promoting shared prosperity by empowering local communities.
42.      Relevance of design: Substantial. The project design represented the leading edge of rural
water supply delivery using a community driven approach, and introduced the SWAp for the first
time in the sector. Components were well designed and tested in other states, with appropriate
recognition of the learning required to implement in the Punjab context. The use of the SWAp
allowed the project to leverage sector resources outside the bounds of the IDA project and extend
the reach of important reforms for participation, cost recovery and sustainability to achieve greater
access and sustainability than what was possible by the IDA resources alone. The PDO captured
the sector development objective of the project that was important for the country and furthered the
Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy. However, it placed equal emphasis on water and sanitation
sector objectives that was not consistent with the project design, where the focus was primarily on
improving water supply services. At appraisal, the sanitation component was limited to
environmental sanitation improvements in a third of the habitations targeted for water supply, and
the scope was later limited to sewerage schemes covering 100 habitations on a pilot basis 17 .
Indicators were appropriate and outcome orientated, though aggregation to percentages required
greater specificity of numerator and denominator definitions, and targets were overly-ambitious.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Increasing access of rural communities to improved and sustainable rural water supply
services
Rating: Substantial
43.       Access: The SWAp has directly extended access to safe water supply to 5.4 million people,
or 31 percent of the State’s rural population18. By targeting NC and PC habitations, the project has
led to a substantial shift in the coverage status of the State. The targets for both the results indicators
for access % of habitations in the rural areas of the state (and each district) who are FC and
Participating habitations for schemes under SWAp as a % of total habitations with a NC or PC
status, were based on an estimate at appraisal of 3,000 NC/PC habitations that was significantly
under-estimated. The subsequent survey conducted by DWSS placed the number of NC/PC
habitations at 8,343. In addition, the total number of habitations also increased over the life of the
project as administrative boundaries were changed. In real terms, out of the 3,000 habitations
targeted by SWAp, 5,335 habitations were reached, achieving 178% of the target. 64% of the state-
wide coverage improvement to 88 percent of habitations being FC (an increase of 45 percent from
the baseline) is directly attributable to the project. By project close 99% of habitations were covered
by public water supply (88% with supply levels exceeding 40 liters per capita per day (FC), and
11% supplying less than 40 liters per capita per day (PC)).
                     Indicator                                Baseline                 Target     Achievement
 % of habitations in the rural areas of the state     51% (Estimate at appraisal)
                                                                                        100%           88%
 (and each district) who are FC                       43% (Revised baseline)
 Participating habitations for schemes under
 SWAp as a % of total habitations with a NC or               Not applicable             100%           64%
 PC status (cumulative habitations covered)


17 Household toilet provision was the responsibility of the Rural Development Department and financed by GoI under
the Total Sanitation Campaign.
18 Rural population in Punjab (Census 2011) is 17,344,192.




                                                       12
44.      Even though at the habitation level schemes were providing the minimum quantity of 40
liters per capita per day for Fully Covered status, the endline survey showed that at household level,
only 64 percent of households state-wide reported usage of public (safe) water sources. This is a
function of extensive prevalence of private sources in households in Punjab. Public supplies are
intermittent, generally providing two hours of supply per day. Private sources, even if not
necessarily safe, are convenient and supply on demand. In the survey adequacy was assessed
qualitatively19 by the households reporting on their perceived adequacy of water from public water
sources. When adequacy was combined with usage of public water sources, the endline showed
53% of households having access to both safe and adequate water across the State, a substantial
23% improvement from baseline, even though the ambitious target of 90% was not met. Project
interventions demonstrated higher service levels that will be implemented in the follow on project
which will contribute to the improvement of this state-wide indicator. However PRWSSP did not
have any direct interventions targeting household usage behavior and this indicator may not be
directly attributable to project interventions.
                     Indicator                              Baseline           Target   Achievement
 % of rural households in the state (and each                30.3%              90%        53.3%
 district) with access to safe and adequate water    (Baseline survey 2009)
 throughout the year

45.       Performance improvement: The SWAp contributed to the sustainability of 1,200 existing
FC schemes by improving their operational performance. With increased connections and service
levels the schemes became financially viable, and after the program of capacity building they were
handed over to the GPWSCs for ongoing operation and maintenance. Even though the target for
performance improvement was reduced from 1,600 to 200 during restructuring due to the
reluctance of communities to make contributions towards existing schemes that were not being
rebuilt, sustained efforts by the project resulted in a final achievement of performance improvement
in a total of 1,200 habitations. Performance improvements were completed towards the end of the
project and there was insufficient time remaining in the project to measure GPWSC performance
against the indicator requiring measurement six months after completion.
                                                              Baseline         Target   Achievement
 Participating habitations for performance improvements of    Not applicable    100%       600%
 existing SV/MV schemes as a % of total habitations planned
 to be covered (cumulative habitations covered)
 % of participating GPWSCs achieving planned performance      Not applicable    95%      Not reported
 improvements measured 6 months after completion

46.      Improved service levels: In addition to extending access, the project made substantial
efforts in demonstrating increased levels of service in IDA financed schemes that was not explicitly
part of the project design. These levels of service (10 and 24 hours of supply per day, 100%
household connections, 100% metering) were notable firsts for the rural water supply sector in the
State, and for the country, and provided a strong demonstration of the applicability of improved
service levels in the rural context. The project targeted individual household connections over
public standposts and piped household water connections increased by more than 300%, from



19
   Assessed on a three point scale: Adequate, Mostly adequate, Not adequate. Data is for adequacy
is consolidated in the indicator for the response ‘Adequate’ only.



                                                    13
77,089 to 310,824 connections over the project period. In 492 habitations 100% household
connections was achieved.
47.      On average schemes in the State deliver two hours of service per day, one hour in the
morning, and one hour in the evening. The conventional wisdom was that this level of supply was
sufficient and that increased durations would increase supply costs and wastage. The project
demonstrated that there was sufficient water to supply more than 10 hours per day in 107 habitations
and 24 hours in 78 habitations, which led to improved terminal pressures, reduction in duration of
pumping, and lower user charges. The increased pressure in these schemes required extensive
leakage reduction in the initial stages, which improved system performance in the long run.
Households experienced firsthand the time savings of having clean water available at all times
without having to store it, and notice the reduction in wastage by not having to discard the unused
water.
48.       The project has made extensive efforts to increase metering of household connections and
335 habitations are fully metered and charging volumetric tariffs. The introduction of individual
household meters has made service provision more equitable, with higher volume users, who tend
to be wealthier, paying more than lower volume users. Metering has let to overall water
conservation and reduced operating costs. More than a third of IDA habitations are recognized as
exemplary villages, which are assessed against operational, financial and customer satisfaction
criteria as detailed in Annex 2. The demonstration effect of these schemes has been highly effective
in changing the mindset of engineers and citizens alike on what is possible by making relatively
small investments in system operations. This has created greater demand for improved service
levels that is being scaled up in the follow on project.
49.      Design factors for sustainability: The project defined sustainability as the water and
sanitation system being operated and maintained beyond the life of the project by being able to
generate adequate cash flows for future expansion and renewal. The following design factors were
considered key to ensuring sustainability (i) ownership as demonstrated by GPs participating and
contributing to capital costs; (ii) water source sustainability; (iii) system sustainability through
improved design and construction practices, building capacity of the GPs and GPWSCs in all
aspects of O&M management, and providing initial support during the post-construction period;
(iv) enabling institutional structure for a demand responsive approach across the state; and (v) post-
implementation monitoring and back-up support to GPs and GPWSCs. The sustainability outcome
of the project was assessed against the indicators for cost recovery and the sustainability
assessments developed for the project, and an assessment of institutional sustainability for both
GPWSCs and DWSS as the primary beneficiaries of the project.

50.     Cost recovery: Cost recovery from habitations is a major achievement of the project.
Beneficiaries contributed a total of US$ 14.54 million in capital contributions, which constituted
4% of total water supply investment in the State and 6% of SWAp investments from 2006 to 2014.
Cost recovery levels for O&M are impressive, with almost three quarters of GPWSCs meeting full
O&M costs through user charges, from a baseline of 28%. This is a key indicator of satisfaction
with the level of service, beneficiary ownership and sustainability of schemes. On completion of
construction, all schemes were required to have a finalized O&M plan and budget. GPWSCs set
the water tariffs to cover O&M costs in full, maintain the accounts, oversee billing and collection,
supervise and manage the pump operator and hold non-payers accountable. Water supply schemes
commissioned under the project generally achieved financial sustainability within a period of 6
months from the beginning of operation by GPWSC. About 90 percent of consumers are paying
their water bills regularly and some habitations now have sizable savings in the O&M accounts,


                                                 14
which are being re-invested in the existing water systems. The project placed a strong focus on
training and information campaigns to initiate dialogue on the kind of long-term commitment
required from communities to run the water systems in a sustainable manner. Post-implementation
O&M training was conducted for GPWSCs along with workshops for habitations with
underperforming schemes on how to deal with technical, financial and O&M issues to improve
sustainability.

51.     The project design estimated about 30% of habitations would demand single village
schemes, and the remaining MV schemes. However, during implementation it was found that
demand for single village schemes by far exceeded the demand for MV schemes and project
interventions focused on single village schemes. The indicator % of participating GPWSCs of MV
schemes with a billing to collection ratio of >90% for bulk charges was last reported in the aide
memoire of the supervision mission of July 2011 which reported 106 multi-village schemes with a
100% billing to collection ratio.

                                                                     Baseline            Target      Achievement
 % of participating GPWSCs meeting the full O&M costs                   27.8%             100%          74.1%
 through user charges
 % of participating GPWSCs of MV schemes with a billing                Baseline not       100%        100% (last
 to collection ratio of >90% for bulk charges                           available                    reported July
                                                                                                        2011)

52.     Sustainability assessment: DWSS assesses sustainability of all schemes on the basis of a
scorecard that assesses technical sustainability (source suitability, quality sustainability,
operational sustainability), financial sustainability and institutional sustainability, as detailed in
Annex 2. Schemes scoring above 50 out of 100 are considered having medium or high sustainability.
66% of IDA schemes are considered to have medium or high sustainability, compared to 38%
SWAp schemes financed from other funding sources. This is due to differences in the levels of
community ownership and engagement in the implementation of SWAp as described in Section
2.2.
53.     In addition, a sustainability assessment20 of a sample of SWAp schemes, using qualitative
and quantitative data, showed that SWAp schemes showed good results in terms of scheme
functionality. Ongoing institutional sustainability, in terms of GPWSC meetings, decision making
and record-keeping, as well as women’s participation in decision making and transparency, were
found to require further attention across the SWAp program. IDA schemes exceeded non-IDA
financed schemes in all areas of assessment. IDA schemes were more likely to be financially
sustainable, and water is more likely to be disinfected and used for drinking purposes.
                                                                     Baseline         Target      Achievement
 % of participating GPs/GPWSCs with high or medium rating            Baseline not      90%          66% (IDA)
 for operational sustainability of their schemes                      available                   38% (non-IDA)

54.      Institutional sustainability: The project created an enabling institutional structure for a
demand responsive approach across the state and for post-implementation monitoring and back-up
support by strengthening GPs and GPWSCs, and DWSS. The project played a transformational
role in the decentralization agenda in the State by strengthening the lowest tier of the Panchayati


20 Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Sustainability Assessment through Community Participation, Water

and Sanitation Program, 2015


                                                         15
Raj institutions by ensuring the direct participation of GPs in planning, implementation and O&M
management of schemes. In the project, 100 % of resources disbursed to participating GPs were
utilized in time in relation to implementation phase of scheme cycle and 99% of schemes were
completed within the planned time and cost. The sector has been key in demonstrating the ability
of GPs to undertake its constitutionally mandated responsibilities for the first time. This has led to
a wider acceptance of the viability of decentralization within the political and bureaucratic
leadership in the State.

                                                                Baseline         Target   Achievement
 % of resources disbursed to participating GPs were utilized    Not applicable    90%        100%
 in time in relation to implementation phase of scheme cycle
 % of water schemes under SWAp completed within planned         Not applicable    95%        99%
 time and cost

55.     DWSS has an important role to play in providing technical support to GPs and GPWSCs
during design and construction, and in post-implementation monitoring and back-up support. The
project created a parallel structure with SPMC and DPMCs to carry out the SWAp, which was
prudent in the context of the strong, hierarchical, supply-driven, engineering focused DWSS that
was the lead agency in rural water supply. DWSS was immensely resistant to the SWAp and
hampered implementation in the first two years. The SPMC/DPMC structure was a means to
demonstrate the new approach. It had varying degrees of success depending on the level of
cooperation that developed between DWSS and DPMCs, but overall its effectiveness is
demonstrated by DWSS mainstreaming social development functions developed within SPMC and
DPMC within a revised organizational structure under the follow on project. Some DWSS
engineers have begun describing themselves as ‘social engineers’ to express their changing role.
56.     To some extent, the presence of DWSS as a strong technical department with a mandate
for water supply limited the full extent of decentralization, for example by DWSS taking on
responsibility for the design of the schemes, calling tenders on behalf of GPWSCs, testing quality
of construction materials, and evaluating bids, even though fully empowered GPs could have taken
these roles themselves. However, the participation of communities, even if at a lesser extent than
intended under the design, led to better construction quality, greater transparency, improved
operational performance and greater cost recovery. The balance between community empowerment
and a DWSS that provides an important mechanism for technical support for ongoing operations
and maintenance is an important balance in the State context to ensure long term sustainability of
schemes.
Increasing access of rural communities to improved and sustainable sanitation services
Rating: Modest
57.     Access: The project constructed 98 sewerage collection and treatment systems on a pilot
basis out of 100 targeted, 97 out of the 98 were reported to be performing satisfactory by project
close and all were completed within the planned time and cost. Sewerage schemes benefitted
20,700 households or approximately 109,710 beneficiaries21.
                                                                Baseline         Target   Achievement
 % of participating habitations had satisfactorily performing   Not applicable    90%         99%
 community sanitation facilities



21   Assuming 5.3 people per household.


                                                    16
 % of new community sanitation schemes completed within                  Not applicable        95%            100%
 planned time and costs

58.      The sanitation component was intended in the project design to focus on improving
environmental sanitation conditions in habitations by upgrading drains and rehabilitating ponds,
and piloting sewer systems where appropriate. The scope of the component was reduced
substantially at restructuring, but the PDO was not revised to reflect this revised scope. Even though
government and communities tend to express a high demand for sewerage infrastructure, this may
be indicative of communities’ need for improved drainage and general environmental sanitary
conditions in the habitation which was achieved in the pilot habitations. Sewer systems are one
option for achieving this and the project failed to explore alternative measures to improve habitation
level environmental sanitation. These could include drainage improvements, in situ treatment,
better solid waste disposal and pond rehabilitation, as originally intended at appraisal.
59.     Sustainability: Most schemes were commissioned towards the end of the project
implementation 22 and sustainability could not be assessed by project close. Operational
sustainability is provided for by including 5 year O&M contracts with an operator for all sewerage
schemes. Extensive community engagement and capacity building was conducted since individual
households are responsible for ensuring that sewers are kept solids free, and for correctly
constructing their internal piping and interceptions chambers. Financial sustainability is the
responsibility of GPWSCs, and for the pilot strong GPWSCs were selected who demonstrated at
least 70% coverage of households with septic tanks and strong management of their water supply
schemes23. For the pilot, beneficiaries did not make a capital contribution, and are likely to pay
double the current monthly water tariff for the additional sewer service, in addition to the costs for
the construction of interception chambers and internal household plumbing. If the full costs are to
be recovered from the GPWSC, then there is a likelihood that a subsidy will be required for the
poor.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Moderate
60.      Despite the significant underestimation of costs at appraisal, which resulted in a significant
reduction of ERR, the project’s final ERR is within the acceptable range and efficiency is rated as
Moderate. The ERR of the SWAp program was estimated to be 23% at project appraisal. The cost
benefit analysis conducted at completion, as detailed in Annex 3, produced an observed rate of
return of minimum 14% up to 16.3% with a benefit to cost ratio of between 1.9 and 2.2 (assuming
a consistent 12% discount rate during the lifetime of the program). At restructuring it was found
that project costs were underestimated by about 34% at appraisal with greater community demand
for single village schemes, increased network costs to maximize individual household connections
and increased input costs. The combination of the increased costs and delays in implementation
played a role in the reduction of the ERR. The observed ERR is in line with the sensitivity analysis
conducted at appraisal, which indicated that the ERR would fall to 12% if the project was delayed


22 Progress on this component was slowed by: (i) the inability to find sufficient land that was technically feasible; (ii)
inadequate experience of design and construction of rural sewerage systems (iii) emphasis on connecting as many
households as possible from the beginning (iv) lack of response from bidders.
23 Strong management is defined by 100% households provided with private connection, sound tariff policy adopted,

100% collection efficiency, water supply maintained with minimal service breakdown, sound financial management,
regular meetings of GPWSC held and records are well kept, operations information is disclosed on regular basis


                                                           17
by three years, or the decrease in benefits and increase in costs both averaged 21%. The detailed
economic analysis is provided in Annex 3.
                                           ERR                  Benefit Cost Ratio
 Estimated                                23.7%                        4.96
 Minimum Observed                         13.9%                        1.91
 Maximum Observed*                        16.3%                        2.24
 *adding benefits for exemplary villages and villages with high sustainability scores


61.      Administrative efficiency: The original loan period was 60 months and was increased by
a further 33 months to ensure completion of activities and achievement of the development
objective. Disbursement lags due to project delays and flow of funds contributed to a reduction in
efficiency in the early years of implementation, which was corrected as implementation progressed.
13.6% of the credit remain unutilized by the project close due to exchange rate fluctuations.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
62.      The project objectives and component design remain highly relevant to the rural water
supply and sanitation sector in Punjab and in India. The project has successfully demonstrated a
new service delivery model that has leveraged greater sector resources from beneficiary
contributions and national programs and has demonstrated greater operational and financial
sustainability. Relevance of objectives was rated High and relevance of design was rated
Substantial. Efficacy of water supply was rated Substantial, and efficacy of sanitation Modest. Even
though the sanitation component was not a comprehensive attempt to address sanitation issues in
the State, it was a relatively small component of the overall project and did achieve and exceed its
more modest results as restructured. The project had measureable economic benefits with an
economic return of 16% and a benefit cost ratio of 2.2 and was rated as Moderate on its efficiency.
The overall outcome is therefore rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
63.     Poverty Impacts: Poverty targeting was implicit in the scheme selection process where
poor habitations were less likely to have access. The project reached an estimated 497,324 poor
beneficiaries24. This represents 9.2% of the total project beneficiaries and exceeds the State’s rural
poverty rate of 7.7%25, indicating a level of overall poverty targeting. Poverty targeting for IDA
financed schemes was more effective and 24% of IDA beneficiaries were classified as poor.
64.      Gender Aspects: The project recognized the need to involve women at all levels in project
activities, with capacity building specifically seen as a means to underpin gender as part of the
implementation. As guiding principles of the project the GPWSCs were required to have at least
one third members being women and a fifth from Scheduled Castes or Other Backward Castes. The
project conducted several workshops targeted at women to prepare and involve them in technical,
quality and financial procedures required of the GPWSCs. The capacity building support for


24 The identification of the poor was based on those households that declared having a BPL card for the purposes of

accessing support from public programs.
25 Government of India Planning Commission July 2013 Poverty Estimates for 2011-12




                                                                 18
DPMCs included creating strategies and implementation plans for transparency, inclusion, and
accountability.
65.     However, endline results showed that gender inclusiveness was limited. The sample
sustainability survey 26 included a qualitative assessment of women’s participation in decision
making, which saw 68%s of sample communities state that all decisions were taken by male
GPWSC members, and a further 27% state that only sometimes decisions were taken jointly by
female and male GPWSC members. Gender outcomes based on the state-wide Baseline Survey
(2009) and Endline Survey (2014), showed that the time dedicated to fetch water reduced an
average of 4.8 hours per month over this period, with 10 out of 22 districts showing reductions in
the time to fetch water either for boys or girls being more than 10 hours per month. However, boys
below 12 years old benefitted the most, with their time to fetch water reducing by an average of 6.3
hours per month, compared with young girls who saw a reduction of 4.5 hours per month.
66.     Citizen engagement: IEC played an important role in developing the relationship between
DWSS and communities by shifting the role of government from that of a provider to facilitator.
This included the transition in the role of DWSS to effectively manage and monitor the use of
participatory processes and the demand responsive approach; establishing a state-of-the-art
governance system to address complaints as per service standards; and working closely with
empowered Panchayati Raj Institutions and local communities. The financial and operational
sustainability of the schemes was supported through empowerment of villagers and GPWSCs
through community engagement, social recognition and capacity building programs.
67.      DWSS set up a formal public complaint redressal system called Shikayat Nivaran Kendra
(SNK) in December 2009. The system is outsourced to an independent company that manages the
call center, registers the complaints, monitors the timey resolution and reports directly to SPMC.
Online registration of complaints through SNK has helped reduce the duration of system downtimes,
reduce absenteeism of operational and field staff and improved scheduling for technical
maintenance support to habitations. The SNK service is advertised in print and electronic media
and the toll free number painted on walls at least three prominent locations in habitations. Out of
45,111 complaints registered in the system from is start, 44,520 (99%) have been successfully
resolved.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
68.      The project has made substantial impacts on the development of institutional capacity
within GPWSCs and DWSS. The project played a transformational role in the decentralization
agenda in the State by strengthening the lowest tier of the Panchayati Raj institutions by ensuring
the direct participation of GPs in planning, implementation and O&M management of schemes.
The sector has been key in demonstrating the ability of GPs to undertake its constitutionally
mandated responsibilities for the first time. This has led to a wider acceptance of the viability of
decentralization within the political and bureaucratic leadership in the State. In addition the project
has led to the change in the mindset of DWSS from a supply driven engineering institution towards
greater appreciation for social empowerment as an integral part of service delivery. The in-house
establishment of HRD and IEC functions had made DWSS more open to work directly with
communities and has seen it willing to transform itself into a multi-sectoral service provider. These




26 Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Sustainability Assessment through Community Participation, Water

and Sanitation Program, 2015


                                                         19
have substantial impacts on the institutionalization of the community driven approach and the long
term sustainability of rural water supply and sanitation services.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There are no additional outcomes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Baseline, mid-line and endline surveys were conducted as part of the project M&E and an additional
sustainability assessment was conducted towards project close that were used for the preparation
of this report. No additional beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
69.     Water supply outcomes are likely to be sustainable since GPWSCs have a direct
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of schemes. GPWSCs have been successful in
operating and maintaining their water supply, as described in Section 3.2. Cost recovery levels are
impressive and ongoing technical support from DWSS creates an enabling institutional structure
for sustainability 27 . Ongoing IEC in the follow on project will target sustainability of
underperforming schemes. Sanitation outcomes are at greater risk with sanitation sustainability
outcomes being less certain. However, the inclusion of long term operation and maintenance
contracts mitigate the risk. Sanitation interventions were pilot programs and ongoing operations
will yield lessons to improve sustainability that will be implemented as part of the follow on
operation. The follow on operation was processed within three months of the project close,
achieving continuity of operations and uninterrupted sector financing. The country and State
context is stable, and sector reforms are sufficiently institutionalized in the State sector policy and
the design of the new operation to limit disruption in the face of changing political and bureaucratic
leadership.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
70.     The Bank provided a strategic approach to sector issues that were relevant to the State and
national policy context. The Bank incorporated extensive national and international sector
knowledge into the project design, and made attempts to test these approaches in the local context.
Technical, financial, economic, environmental, fiduciary, M&E and social development aspects


27PRWSSP was featured as a case study for the recent World Bank report Operations and Maintenance of Rural
Infrastructure in CDD and Community-Based Projects: Lessons Learned and Case Studies of Good Practice, May 2015.
The review found that there are four key areas that require specific attention for O&M to be successful: (i) the
organizational structure and roles and responsibilities for operating and maintaining the infrastructure at the community
and local administration levels; (ii) quality and continuity of training; (iii) revenue collection and cost-sharing
mechanisms; willingness and ability to pay; and (iv) design and technology choices and complexity.


                                                          20
were well incorporated into the project design and risks were well identified, even if mitigation
measures did not prevent implementation delays. The use of the SWAp allowed the project to
leverage sector resources outside the bounds of the IDA project and extend the reach of important
reforms for participation, cost recovery and sustainability to achieve greater access and
sustainability than what was possible by the IDA resources alone. Sanitation objectives were
overstated in the PDO but the more modest indicators reflected the project design and were
achieved.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
71.      The project was consistently supervised twice a year and ratings were candid and realistic.
A mid-term review was conducted in September 2009, though it was more than a year before the
project was formally restructured. Changes were made that aided implementation performance. The
Bank played a major role in the initial years to convince the political leadership of the value of the
project approach, and engaged in extensive capacity building of the implementing agencies to
understand and adopt the community driven approach. However, the implementation of SWAp was
diluted with separation by IDA and non-IDA schemes with differing implementation arrangements,
and resulting differences in scheme sustainability. Procurement and financial management issues
were resolved in partnership with the Client, and corrective actions were taken that substantially
improved implementation quality. Supervision was undertaken by highly experienced and
technically capable experts that added substantial value to the Client engagement, especially in
initiating better performance standards for schemes, including increasing duration of supply to 10
hours and 24 hours, substantially increasing coverage of household connections and reaching high
levels of O&M cost recovery. The Bank provided timely policy development support, particularly
on water quality issues, the use of public private partnerships and assessing sustainability28. Project
restructuring did not address shortcomings in the PDO, results indicators and targets.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
72.      Overall the Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Even though the project
benefitted from extensive sector experience, there were moderate shortcomings in the results
framework that affected the assessment of project results. The Bank was proactive in the
identification of opportunities in demonstrating greater levels of service and in the resolution of
issues as they arose. However, there were moderate shortcomings in not using the restructuring of
the project on two occasions to amend the project PDO and indicators to reflect the project’s
targeted results more accurately.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




28 (i) Study on Public Private Partnership Opportunities in Achieving Long-Term Sustainability of Rural Water Supply
and Sewerage in Punjab. (ii) Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Sustainability Assessment through
Community Participation, Water and Sanitation Program, 2015. (iii) Assessment of Uranium Contamination &
Mitigation of Rural Drinking Water in Punjab


                                                        21
73.      There was little political and senior bureaucratic commitment to the project in its early
years of implementation due to the timing of the project approval at the transition between two
administrations. However, once political support was secured, the political leadership placed its
full support behind the project by encouraging communities to make capital and O&M
contributions and ensuring that DWSS actively implemented the project. Project review meetings
were held up to the level of the Honorable Chief Minister, who remained a firm champion of the
project through its implementation life. Regular review at the Government level maintained
pressure on the DWSS to perform. However, the government diverted project funds during periods
of fiscal pressure that affected project implementation. The government undertook the development
of the State sector policy to consolidate the community driven approach, and initiated a follow on
project to strengthen sector sustainability and deepen reforms.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
74.      The implementing agency was not convinced of the value of the program and resisted
implementation in the first two years. Backed by strong political leadership the implementing
agency ensured the project was well implemented, and consistently exceeded implementation
targets for new schemes and for instituting performance improvements for existing schemes. The
Secretary DWSS conducted regular review meetings with all officials concerned to ensure that
issues regarding the work program, fund flow, procurement, construction progress, commissioning,
connections and revenues were resolved. Regular review meetings were critical for the project’s
success and precipitated review meetings down to implementation levels.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
75.       The government displayed strong leadership and ownership for the project through its
implementation. In spite of initial skepticism, the government was able to transform its perspective
and fully support implementation through strong political and bureaucratic support. However,
initial project delays and fund flow delays to the project impacted project performance.

6. Lessons Learned
76.      IEC and HRD is recognized as a critical function to deliver community driven rural
water supply and sanitation services. Effective IEC required continuous field engagement by
social development functions like HRD and IEC. These functions need to be well resourced with
staff, vehicles and technical support to strengthen community commitment to project activities,
empower communities to consider alternative options, institute performance improvement, ensure
sustainability and inclusion in service provision. There may be scope for creation of markets for
Support Organisations to introduce flexibility in service provision and reduce the staffing burden
for DWSS. A dedicated line of responsibility for IEC to the Secretary ensures representation of
IEC issues at the senior level. The use of peer learning mechanisms, like exposure visits and the
development of role model villages has worked effectively to demonstrate the viability of higher
service levels and generate greater demand in other habitations. There is a need to strengthen
monitoring, reporting and evaluation, including consumer research, to get the best out of IEC
interventions.
77.    Capacity building of GPWSCs is an ongoing activity to ensure sustainability and
requires greater institutionalization. For GPWSCs to work well they require strong leadership,


                                                22
a strong sense of ownership and at least three to four people to actively participate. In addition, GP
elections take place every 5 years and there is a need to educate new committees when they are
elected. Professionalizing the functions of the GPWSCs for operating and maintaining schemes can
create a professional market for these skills and secure continuity in times of political change. More
focused training sessions for GPWSCs to build capacity for procurement could have helped them
to execute procurement more efficiently.
78.      More specifically designed interventions are required in Punjab to ensure gender
inclusiveness. Generally at the sub-national level in India there is a negative correlation between
gender inequality and per capita income. However, in spite of the high per capita income in Punjab,
gender inequality remains high29. Even though specific gender interventions were conducted, there
is a need for more specialized gender interventions for the particular context in Punjab.
79.     Community empowerment, linked to technical backstopping by an engineering
department, can provide an effective institutional structure for long term sustainability.
Sustainability requires effective monitoring of scheme functioning and GPWSC management
effectiveness, and follow up action, like enhanced IEC/HRD interventions and technical support
for minor and major breakdowns. The presence of a government department with the specific
mandate for rural water supply and sanitation service provision provides the opportunity for sound
technical backstopping to communities, especially in the O&M stage, to ensure sustainability of
schemes, and the opportunity to improve sector monitoring and evaluation to develop an evidence
base for future policy development.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




29Arora, Rashmi Umesh (2012) Gender Inequality, Economic Development, and Globalization: A State Level Analysis
of India, The Journal of Developing Areas Volume 46 No. 1 Spring 2012


                                                      23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                                millions)*
A – Program management                         31                     8.8                   28
B – Community Development
                                               24                      3.3                 14
Support
C – Infrastructure Development                 99                    100.6                 102
                Total Baseline Cost           154                    112.7                 73
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                 Total Project Costs          154                    112.7                 73
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
         Total Financing Required             154                    112.7                 73
*Cost by component was based on the latest estimate on June 3,2015. Further withdrawal applications were
expected up to June 30,2015.

(b) Financing
                                             Type of   Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                                   Percentage of
              Source of Funds               Cofinanci Estimate         Estimate
                                                                                    Appraisal
                                               ng    (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower (GoI)                                                 42.1         127.95     304%
Local Communities                                             15.70          14.54     93%
International Development Association (IDA)                 154.00          126.40      82%
Government of Punjab                                          49.60




                                                  24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component A: Program Management
This component financed the establishment and operating costs of the program institutions and
training, consultancies, and goods and equipment for: management support to DWSS, information,
education and communication (IEC) campaigns, operating M&E and MIS systems, capacity
building programs, sector development programs and studies; and grants to be provided as awards
to best performing GPs.
Sub Component A1, Institutional costs: This subcomponent financed the costs of setting up and
operating the state level and district level Project Management Cells (SPMC and 20 DPMCs). Costs
included the procurement of computers, office equipment and vehicles. Recurring costs included
individual consultant staff salaries, all staff travel costs, and SPMC and DMPC offices’
administrative and operating costs.
Subcomponent A2: Monitoring and Evaluation: This subcomponent financed (i) the
development of a management information system; (ii) three state-wide household surveys to
assess state wide coverage and outcomes: baseline survey, midline survey, endline survey. Best
GPWSC awards were granted to 521 exemplary villages based on the following criteria:
 Criteria for selecting Exemplary Villages
 1. Minimum number of individual household connections as 70% but preferably more than 90% for
     achieving financial sustainability.
 2. Schemes should have sustained for more than a year preferably covering one peak summer and one
     peak winter spell.
 3. No defaulters on account of non-payment of monthly tariff.
 4. No electricity bill pending.
 5. Proper record-keeping and maintenance of accounts.
 6. Minimal wastage of water by ensuring 100% taps.
 7. Surplus revenue should have been generated in O&M account to meet the emergent O&M expenses
     (minimum Rs. 25,000).
 8. Water supply should meet all the water quality parameters with proper disinfection and availability
     of drinking water throughout the village at requisite pressure.
 9. There should be no illegal connections.
 10. Cohesive GPWSC.
 11. Consumer satisfaction.
 12. Average monthly complaints less than 2 per month
 13. Sanitation status preferably more than 90% open defecation free.
 14. Proper upkeep of water works.


Under this sub-component the project was to finance the setting up and regular operations of the
water quality surveillance systems, including laboratory equipment, field testing kits, water quality
testing. This program was financed by the Government of India National Rural Drinking Water
Program. The water quality monitoring was supported by the project through two key consultancies
that are innovative for the sector: (i) Consultancy Work on State of the Art Water Quality
Monitoring Program: The monitoring information system developed will be integrated with the
project MIS and the National Informatics Center (NIC) database of the GoI, and (ii) Consultancy
on Water Quality and Resource Mapping of the State: District Wise Water Quality Resource Maps
of 16 districts of the state were developed by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), Ludhiana.


                                                  25
For continuity and making use of data by SPMC and DPMCs, PRSC will upload all data to the
Bhuvan Portal of the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) and update it regularly. Additional
information on groundwater prospects, water sources where ROs are installed, quality information
on uranium and heavy metals, water table depths pre- and post-monsoon, data on assembly and
parliamentary constituencies will be added as additional layers. This will be integrated into the MIS
of the DWSS.
Subcomponent A3: Capacity Building
This sub-component financed the costs of conducting training programs for state government
officials and for recipient communities. A total of 61 Strategic-level capacity building events were
conducted for the following levels of state officers: Principal Secretary, Secretary, Chief Engineers,
Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers (Operation wing and DPMCs), Sub Divisional
Engineers, Junior Engineers, HRD and IEC Specialists, covering the topics below:
     Strategic Capacity Building Undertaken
 1.  Four day residential workshop on the importance of Capacity Building and Communication
 2.  Four day workshop on the importance of Behavior Change communication
 3.  Three day workshop for Trainings of Trainers
 4.  Understanding the environment, water and sanitation practices
 5.  Ill-effects of contaminated water to human life
 6.  Understanding of demand response/decentralized service delivery approaches.
 7.  Finance management and accounts keeping
 8.  Overview of sanitation options for sewerage system/pond rehabilitation
 9.  Technological options and the PRWSS
 10. Overview of World Bank procurement procedures
 11. Role of networking and collaboration
 12. Interactive workshop on how to sustain water supply schemes with co-operation of NGOs
 13. Awareness generation on concept, criteria and importance of solid free sewerage systems
 14. Communicating and capacitating about the benefits of 24 × 7 metered water supply
 15. Workshop for newly recruited professionals
 16. State Level Press Meet
 17. Monitoring of sustainability of water supply schemes
 18. Workshops for implementation of sewerage schemes
 19. Workshop for enhancing self-sustainable water supply & sewerage schemes
 20. Workshop for identification of best practices
 21. Team Building Workshop
 22. Three day training program on Community Mobilization Programming in Kathmandu,
     Nepal for Executive Engineers
 23. One day IEC preparatory workshops


The following capacity building programs were conducted in habitations as part of the
implementation of the community driven development approach for SWAp:
                                                                                        Number of
                                        Activity
                                                                                    training programs
 1.    Pre-planning & Planning Phase: To create capacity for formation of GPWSCs,
       adoption on the GPWSC resolution, technical and financial procedures,
                                                                                          7,258
       involvement of women and sensitization on health, hygiene and sanitation
       issues.




                                                   26
                                                                                         Number of
                                        Activity
                                                                                     training programs
 2.   Implementation Phase: Hands on training to technicians and pump operators on
      technical issues and quality aspects, and GPWSCs on the maintenance of              8,969
      financial accounts for transparency and accountability
 3.   Post Implementation Phase: Strengthening the GPWSCs for O&M for both
                                                                                           5753
      performance improvement and new water supply schemes
 4.   Under-Performing GPWSCs for sustainable water supply and sanitation
      provision: Cluster level meetings comprising of GPWSC members from 10                715
      villages at a time
 5.   Training programs to hand over DWSS run schemes to GPWSCs                            419
 6.   Capacity building for sewerage schemes, including construction of septic
                                                                                          7,081
      chambers, connection fees, and maintenance of solid free sewerage systems


Capacity building for sewerage schemes was begun in 2010 involving various stakeholders such as
Panchyati Raj Institutions, Zila Parishads, GPWSC's, Members of Legislative Assemblies, District
Commissioners, and village communities to ensure the participation of women, vulnerable
communities and religious leaders. The capacity building included different project phases from
pre-planning to post implementation stages, and each habitation was frequently visited.
SPMC conducted 97 training programs at habitation level for 5,844 participants on Solid Free
Sewerage System, and 2 at SPMC level for 247 participants on environment management and
related technical issues. SPMC prepared an Action Plan for Capacity Building and Environmental
Awareness at all levels for 2014-15. The trainings were completed by September 2014. This
included (a) 5 days training of Superintending Engineers/Executive Engineers and Environmental
Management Specialists to develop a pool of trainers and master trainer in the department at
Engineering Staff College of India (ESCI) in Hyderabad (20 participants), (b) Half day training at
Zonal level to all levels of engineers, DPMC staff and contractors (395 participants through four
zonal level trainings) (c) Half day training to Sub Divisional Engineers/ Junior
Engineers/contractors/GPWSCs and resource persons (50 Nos. participants). Training for 14
participants at Engineering Staff College of India (ESCI) in Hyderabad based on a module specially
designed on the project Environmental Safeguards Management Framework (ESMF). Depending
upon target participants, training was focused on environmental management frameworks,
environmental awareness and management, water quality and solid waste management.
Subcomponent A4: Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Campaign
The IEC campaigns were designed to generate demand for water and sanitation services,
disseminate project rules of engagement, communicate the benefits of improved water supply and
sanitation, create awareness of water pollution issues, encourage behavior change for water
conservation, develop community ownership and accountability, ensure O&M sustainability, create
a forum for stakeholder management and promote gender sensitivity. The project financed the
following outputs as part of the IEC programs at habitation level:
                     Activity                           Number
 Interpersonal communication                             18,315
 School rallies                                           2,601
 Water quality awareness                                 11,136
 Puppet shows                                               730




                                                   27
                      Activity                                 Number
 Muniyadi30                                                      6,262
 Exposure visits                                                 2,160
 Exposure visits to successful sewerage schemes                    166
 Social mapping                                                    728
 Wall Writings                                                   4,650
 Road Shows                                                        180
 Overcoming gender bias and empowering women                       225


Subcomponent A5: Sector Development Initiatives
This sub-component allowed for pilot testing of new initiatives, and supported the development of
base topographical information for about 203 habitations using digital surveys, and the preparation
of water resource maps by the Punjab Remote Sensing Agency.
Component B Community Development Support
Under this component the project financed the use of three support organizations in the first years
of project implementation on a pilot basis for providing support to village communities in technical,
financial and management aspects for new schemes and for performance improvement of existing
schemes. The project also financed engineering design support for water supply and sewerage
schemes under this sub-component. Spending on this component was substantially lower than
estimated in the PAD since Support Organizations were not deployed for the project and IEC/HRD
capability was build in-house in DPMCs and SPMC. In addition engineering design costs were
lower than estimated in the PAD since there was greater demand for simple Single Village schemes
rather than Multi-Village schemes.
Component C Infrastructure Building
Subcomponent C1: Construction/Upgrading of Water Supply Schemes in NC/PC habitations
This sub-component aimed to support the GoP objective for all habitations in the state to reach
Fully Covered (FC) status. The SWAp targeted new schemes in habitations Not Covered (NC) and
rehabilitation of schemes in Partially Covered (PC) habitations to achieve Fully Covered status31
and exceeded the target by 78%. The project directly financed civil works contracts for new
construction and rehabilitation in 1,674 habitations.
                                                      SWAp Targets           Actual Achievement at Completion
                                                             PAD                 IDA Non-IDA Total SWAp
 Number of new/rehabilitated water schemes                  3,000               1,674      3,661          5,335


At appraisal, a baseline of 53% FC habitations was estimated, and the project targeted a 100%
achievement of FC status across the State. The baseline number of FC habitations was
overestimated at appraisal. The actual number of habitations to be covered to reach the target was


30Muniyaadi is local system of generating awareness by using loud speakers either on autorickshaw or rickshaw
31Access to rural water supply infrastructure in India is defined as access to an average of 40 liters per capita per day
within a distance of 1.6 kilometers or, in hilly areas, within an elevation of 100 meters. Fully Covered (FC): public
supplies catering 40lpcd and above; Partially Covered (PC) public supplies catering up to 40 lpcd; and Not Covered
(NC): no public supplies within a reasonable distance


                                                          28
greater than estimated. The State made impressive progress in extending access and improving
coverage status, and exceeded targets by large margins in real terms to achieve 88% FC coverage
across the State. Overall by the project end, there are a nominal number of PC habitations remaining,
which tend to be habitations with small populations, and are targeted by DWSS for completion. PC
habitations have been reduced by more than half and the shift in access to FC has increased from
43% of the habitations in the State to 88% of habitations by the project close.

 Number of               NC                             PC                           FC
                                                                                                       Total
 habitations     Number       % of total     Number          % of total     Number        % of total
    2006            4,261       29%             4,082          28%             6,262        43%        14,605
    2015              104        1%                 1747       11%             13524        88%        15,375


Demonstration of higher levels of services
In addition to extending access, the project went beyond the original design and demonstrated the
effectiveness of extending higher levels of service.
 Service Level                             Achievement                           Comment
                                                             From a baseline of 77,089 piped connections in
 Household connections                       310,824         2006, the project led to an increase in household
                                                             connections by more than 300%.
 Habitations with 100% household                             From a baseline of zero habitations. Represents
                                              492
 connections                                                 29% of IDA financed schemes
                                                             From a baseline of zero habitations. Represents
 Habitations with 24/7 water supply            78
                                                             5% of IDA financed schemes.
 Habitations where supply exceeds 10
                                              107            Represents 6.4% of IDA financed schemes.
 hours per day
 Habitations where all connections are
                                                             From a baseline of zero habitations. Represents
 metered and charging volumetric              335
                                                             20% of IDA financed schemes
 tariffs
                                                             From a baseline of zero habitations. Represents
 Exemplary villages                           605
                                                             36% of IDA financed schemes

In addition, the project provided an incentive for exemplary villages. A total 605 habitations, or
36% of IDA financed schemes reached exemplary village status.
Subcomponent C2: Performance Improvements in Existing Schemes
To further extend decentralization in the sector, the project supported the transfer of FC schemes
managed by DWSS to GPWSCs. In addition to IEC and capacity building activities, the project
financed activities to improve the performance of these schemes to ensure financial and operational
sustainability. At restructuring in December 2010 the original target of 1,600 FC habitations for
performance improvement was revised to 200 habitations because it was found that FC habitations
were less willing to take over O&M from the DWSS and contribute the same amount as
beneficiaries in NC and PC habitations who received new systems. However, ongoing engagement
with FC habitations and more intensive IEC led to the achievement of 706 performance
improvement schemes financed directly by the project, and the total target for SWAp exceeded by
a factor of 6.




                                                       29
                                         SWApTargets               Actual Achievement at Completion
                                    Original      Revised              IDA      Non-IDA Total SWAp
 Number of performance
                                      1,600             200             706             494           1,200
 improvement schemes
This sub-component was meant to finance installation of defluoridization and reverse osmosis
plants and potable water treatment units on a pilot basis. By restructuring in December 2010 it was
found that these were not required. GoP financed the installation of 392 reverse osmosis plants
through public-private partnership in quality affected habitations from its own funds. Fluoride
levels were found to be within permissible limits and defluoridization plants were not required.
Scheme sustainability
DWSS assesses sustainability of all schemes on the basis of a scorecard that assesses technical
sustainability, financial sustainability and institutional sustainability, as detailed below. Schemes
scoring above 50 out of 100 are considered having medium or high sustainability.
Sustainability Assessment Criteria:
       Characteristic                              Guide lines for filling the templates

 1     Technical Sustainability
 1.1   Source Sustainability
 a     Source did not totally fail in summer       If there is upto 20 to 25% reduction in the yield of tube
                                                   well /surface water source in summer, (assign 80-75%
                                                   marks)
 b     Water harvesting program implemented        Whether GPWSC is adopting roof water harvesting from
                                                   panchayat Ghar /Village dispensary /village school or any
                                                   other pucca structure (assign full marks)
 1.2   Quality Sustainability
 a     Disinfection is done daily                  Whether calculated dose of bleaching powder is added in
                                                   clear water reservoir or water is passed through silver
                                                   ionisation plant (give full marks)
 b     Source remained potable throughout the      A water sample has not failed in physical, chemical and
       year                                        bacteriological test during the year (assign full marks)
 c     Proper protection arrangement in place      Whether the water works is adequately protected from all
       for the sources / drawl points              types of contaminations which may be due to dumping of
                                                   solid wastes or surface run off during rainy season (assign
                                                   full marks).
 1.3   Operational Sustainability
 a     Downtime in Water supply occurred for       Averagely water supply scheme did not remain non
       less than 24 days a year inclusive of       functional for more than two days in a month (assign full
       maintenance shut down                       marks).
 b     Supply of water achieved for at least for   Against six hours of daily supply, if water is supplied up
       80% of the desired supply hours             to four hours and 45 minutes per day (assign full marks).
 c     Less than 5% of total households Public     If less than 5% of the total household draw water from
       Stand Posts                                 public stand post (assign full marks).
 d     Supply of water is less than estimated      If water is supplied = daily demand (assign full marks).
       actual demand
 e     Electricity consumption is less than the    If consumption of power is lower than the estimated daily
       estimated consumption in the O&M plan.      consumption of power (assign full marks).
 2     Financial Sustainability
 a     Prepared an annual O&M plan at the          If O&M plan is prepared and put up in a gram sabha
       beginning of financial year                 meeting in the first month of the financial year i.e. in the
                                                   month of April (assign full marks).



                                                   30
      Characteristic                              Guide lines for filling the templates

 b    Revenue collected from tariff is more       Whether yearly revenue collection from water charges is
      than 75% of planned O&M expenditure         more than 75% of the O&M expenditure (assign full
      over the past 12 months                     marks).
 c    Revenue collection is more than 90% of      Whether yearly revenue collection from water charges is
      planned O&M expenditure in the past 12      more than 90% of the O&M expenditure (assign full
      months                                      marks).
 d    Revenue collected is greater than O&M       Assign full marks if Revenue collection is greater than
      expenditure.                                O&M expenditure.
 3    Institutional Sustainability
 a    Held annual/semi annual meetings.           Assign full marks if GPWSC has conducted annual /semi
                                                  annual meeting.
 b    Prepared approved and displayed annual/     Whether GPWSC has got approved the expenditure and
      semi annual statement of accounts and       revenue statement in the annual /semi annual Gram Sabha
      submitted these to the DPMC.                meeting (assign full marks).

Summary of results of sustainability assessment
                                                                       SWAp
                                                           IDA        Non-IDA        Total
 Number of habitations gaining access to improved
                                                           1,674        3,661        5,335
 water supply
 Number of Habitations with medium or high
                                                           1,108        1,392        2,500
 sustainability
 % of Habitations with medium or high sustainability       66%          38%           47%


In addition, the Water and Sanitation Program conducted a Sustainability Assessment of SWAp schemes in
Punjab on a sample basis using quantitative and qualitative surveys. In a meeting with all the community
members including GPWSC members, schemes were discussed and were awarded scores for each of the 21
indicators below under five areas of assessment by all those present by show of hands.
                                                Score Card
                                   High                        Medium                          Low
 Indicators Assessed
                                    10                           5                              0
 Water Access
 Availability of Water   Source has water all year     Source            provides   Source goes       dry    in
 at Source               round                         intermittent        supply   summer
                                                       throughout the year/or has
                                                       less water in summer
 Households              More than 70% of              Between 50 to 69% of         Less than 50% of
 Connected to the        Households are connected      Households are connected     Households are connected
 System                  to the system                 to the system                to the system
 Equity in Coverage      The System covers the         The System covers the        The System covers only
                         main village and all          main village and some        the main village
                         disadvantaged                 disadvantaged
                         habitations/areas of the      habitations/areas of the
                         village                       village
 Adequacy of Water       Adequate water quantity       Adequate water quantity      Insufficient water quantity
 Supplied                for all domestic and          only for domestic needs      even for selected domestic
                         livestock needs                                            needs
 Power Availability      Power availability does       Power availability has       Power availability has
                         not impact regular water      some impact on regular       major impacts on regular
                         supply                        water supply                 water supply


                                                  31
                                                  Score Card
                                     High                       Medium                               Low
Indicators Assessed
                                      10                           5                                   0
Reliance on Water         All households meet Some households meet                        Majority of the households
Supply System versus      domestic water needs from domestic water needs                  meet domestic water needs
alternative sources       the system                  partly from the system and          from    alternate    local
                                                      partly from alternate local         sources
                                                      sources
Water Quality
Disinfection             Water is disinfected on a         Water     is   disinfected     Water disinfection is not
                         daily basis/ Not applicable       intermittently                 practised
                         as water supplied through
                         RO Plant
Use for Drinking         90% or more households            Majority - 51 to 89% - of      Less than 50% of the
                         use water for drinking            households use water for       households are using
                         purpose                           drinking purpose               water for drinking purpose
Operational sustainability
Downtime in Supply       Downtime in water supply          Downtime in water supply       Downtime in water supply
                         occurred for less than 2          occurred about 3-5 days        occurred for more than 5
                         days per month in past one        per month in one year          days per month in past
                         year       inclusive     of       inclusive of maintenance       one year inclusive of
                         maintenance shutdown              shutdown                       maintenance shutdown
Lead time for repairs    Repairs attended to within        Repairs attended to within     Repairs are not attended at
                         1 -2 days                         3-7 days                       all
Financial Sustainability
Tariff      Collection Water Tariff Collection is          Water Tariff Collection is     Water Tariff Collection is
Efficiency               above 70% of the annual           between 50-70% of the          less than 50% of the
                         demand                            annual demand                  annual demand
% of households On an average, less than                   On an average, between 11      On an average, more than
defaulting on payment 10%          of     households       to 20% of households           20%% of households
                         defaulting on water tariff        defaulting on water tariff     defaulting on water tariff
                         payments in last one year         payments, in last one year     payments in last one year.
O&M       costs   met All O&M costs including              All O&M costs excluding        Majority of O&M costs
through tariff           electricity met through           electricity met through        not met through tariff
                         tariff collection                 tariff collection              collection
O&M Recurrent Cost O&M Recurrent Costs                     O&M Recurrent Costs            O&M Recurrent Costs
                         covered 100% through              covered atleast 50% and        covered less than 50% or
                         tariff collection                 above      through    tariff   records not available to
                                                           collection                     verify the costs incurred.
Availability         of Water revenue surplus is           Water revenue surplus is       Water revenue surplus is
Surplus          Water more than 50% of the past           between 25 to 50% of the       less than 25% of the past
Revenue to meet one year O&M recurring                     past one        year O&M       one year O&M recurring
future major repairs       cost                            recurring cost                 cost
Institutional sustainability
Frequency of GPWSC GPWSC meets 12 times in                 GPWSC meets 4 to 8             GPWSC meets less than 4
Meetings                   a year as mandated in a         times in a financial year.     times in a financial year.
                           financial year
GPWSCs         Decision GPWSC has implemented              GPWSC has partially            GPWSC         has     rolled
Making                     decisions related to service    implemented       decisions    back/not      implemented
                           improvements                    related      to     service    decisions related to service
                                                           improvements                   improvements
Update of GPWSC           GPWSC        updates    all      GPWSC updates some             Most GPWSC records not
Records                   required records on a            records intermittently         updated on a regular basis
                          regular basis (monthly)



                                                      32
                                                       Score Card
                                         High                     Medium                                 Low
 Indicators Assessed
                                          10                          5                                    0
 Unauthorised         Water   Water     used     through Some unauthorised water               Major Water use through
 Use                          unauthorised connections use through unauthorised                unauthorised       water
                              and     electric    motors connections and electric              connections and electric
                              detected and penalised /No motors on connections                 motors on connections
                              unauthorised water use
 Womens Participation         Decisions jointly taken by Decisions       sometimes             All decisions taken by
 in decision making           male and female GPWSC taken jointly by female                    male GPWSC members
                              members                      and    male     GPWSC
                                                           members
                              GPWSC decisions are GPWSC decisions are                          GPWSC        decisions        not
                              shared     formally     e.g shared in informal ways              shared
                              through Gram Sabhas (meetings other than
                              once or twice a year or gramsabha)
                              information displayed at
                              GP/Waterworks

The summary results are given blow.
Summary of results of Sample Sustainability Assessment
                                 Max         Non
    Areas of Assessment                                  IDA             Non-IDA                        IDA
                                 Score       IDA
 Water Access32                     39         28.8        35.7      Highly Sustainable            Highly Sustainable
                 33
 Water Quality                        9          4.5        6.1     Needs Improvement                      Sustainable
 Operational
                                    7.5          5.6        6.7      Highly Sustainable            Highly Sustainable
 Sustainability34
 Financial Sustainability35          20         10.0       13.6     Needs Improvement                      Sustainable
 Institutional
                                   24.5          8.2        9.9          Not Sustainable         Needs Improvement
 Sustainability36
 Cumulative Score                   100         57.1       72.1     Needs Improvement              Highly Sustainable


Subcomponent C3: Community Sanitation
Under this component the project proposed to finance works, goods and equipment for improving
environmental conditions by constructing village drains to improve drainage and upgrading village
ponds in 1,000 habitations. The component focused on community sanitation schemes, since the
household sanitation was being implemented by GoP’s Rural Development Department with
financial assistance from Government of India’s Total Sanitation Campaign. The options for village
drainage considered were: (i) provision of open drains for collecting sullage that can be disposed



32 Water access includes (i) Availability of Water at Source (ii) Households Connected to the System; (iii) Equity in

Coverage; (iv) Power Availability (v) Reliance on Water Supply System versus alternative sources
33 Water quality includes disinfection and use of public water for drinking purposes

34 Operational sustainability includes downtime in supply and lead time for repairs

35 Financial sustainability includes tariff collection efficiency; payment defaults; O&M cost recovery and availability of

surplus water revenue to meet future major repairs
36 Institutional sustainability includes GPWSC meetings, decision making and record-keeping, as well as women’s

participation in decision making and transparency


                                                           33
without treatment (ii) conventional underground drainage and sewerage systems with sewers and
manholes connected to both toilets and bathrooms of houses and disposed in a treatment plant (iii)
small bore sewerage system designed to collect sullage and septic tank overflow connected to a
treatment plant. In these systems solids are retained in especially constructed interception chambers.
Technology choice tended to be limited to solids free sewers since the water supply in the
habitations was far below the rate required for a conventional sewerage system. At restructuring in
December 2010, the support to community sanitation was reduced to the 100 habitations where
sewage treatment plants were proposed. The project constructed 98 sewage treatment plants against
the target of 100.




                                                 34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The methodology used for the economic analysis is similar to that used in the economic analysis at
appraisal. At appraisal the benefit and cost estimations were disaggregated based on six different
technology options for water supply schemes37. During implementation these technology options
applied to a more limited extent and most schemes were constructed as tube-well based Single
Village schemes. To gain consistency in the overall structure of costs and benefits estimated, the
economic analysis uses aggregated figures applicable for all types of scheme technologies. The
analysis uses monitoring data from the project as well as data from the baseline and endline surveys
conducted in 2009 and 2014 respectively. Both survey rounds collected community and household
indicators with a sample of 8,000 households and 400 communities. Each survey contained a fairly
similar questionnaire structure that allowed comparability of main indicators used to contrast with
the original project parameter assumptions.
The economic analysis consists of a general estimation of the overall program benefits and costs,
the distribution of costs and benefits by specific category, the expected rate of return versus the
observed rate of return, and the overall efficiency analysis. In addition, an efficiency analysis for
water supply is estimated based on project net costs (differences at appraisal and completion) and
the overall benefits of the project at completion. The efficiency analysis is also presented for the
sanitation component of the project. Finally, the explanation of the administrative efficiency and
unit rate of return of investments is presented.
Benefits
Project benefits were assessed from the surveys and secondary data from the Government of India
and the Government of Punjab. The typical economic benefits considered were:
        Value of time saved in water collection;
        Value of incremental water supply;
        Value of saving in recurring and capital cost (cost incurred to maintain the existing supply
         of water in the ‘without’ project situation);
        Value of improvements in livelihoods
        Value of health benefits due to the reduction in the incidence of water-borne diseases such
         as diarrhea, gastroenteritis, dengue and malaria. Other non-communicable diseases were
         also considered.
The value of time saved was calculated based on the time savings reported in both baseline and
endline surveys, disaggregated by gender and age. Using the reported values estimates were made
by aggregating each separate value from gender and age cohorts. At baseline the expected time
savings was 0.38 hours per household per day prior to project implementation, whereas survey data
showed that after project completion observed savings were 0.72 hours per household per day.
The benefits accrued from incremental (additional) water value for consumption to the project
beneficiaries. The incremental water consumption was estimated using the average value of
designed supply and water consumption for all schemes that increased water availability from


37These options are: tube well based SV scheme for N C or PC habitations; canal based SV and MV schemes; tube well
based MV scheme for N C or PC habitations.


                                                       35
rehabilitation or new construction. The average water price (assumed to be close to water tariffs
paid locally) was used to approximate the value of the incremental water availability. Survey data
showed figures of increments of water availability from 44.3 to 67.8 liters per capita per day. Unit
costs were also estimated based on the baseline reference point (Rs.10.3 per liter) and observed
costs (Rs.12.4 per liter).
Because of the project’s interventions to invest in i) promoting the rehabilitation of schemes, and
ii) supporting the institutional and local development needed to co-finance contributions towards
O&M, the project provided benefits in avoided costs of repairs and maintenance to habitations. The
capital cost saved (cost saved due to systematic rehabilitation or upgrade of existing schemes), was
valued by imputing the observed cost of all O&M activities contrasted with the estimated O&M
costs at baseline.
The value of improvements in livelihoods was estimated using the net value of households and
community contributions and the overall improvements in their economy due to the investments
made by the project. The improved value of households’ production and output that depended on
water was considered. The incremental value estimated for livelihood between baseline and endline
was Rs. 1,432 (US$ 2.5 per month per household).
The benefits of the project, in terms of avoided and prevented water-borne illnesses, were estimated
consistently with the approach used at appraisal. The estimation of these benefits was divided into
two broad categories. The first is the indirect costs saved per person-days lost due to disease. The
second component reflects the aggregate Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) gained from
avoiding such diseases. The majority of health benefits accrue from the DALYs due to water-borne
diseases.
The World Health Organization (WHO) uses a quantitative assessment of health impacts from
unsafe water and sanitation based on different methodologies that treat the exposure and risks of
different types of disease. Expenditures incurred for treatment relies on the incidences of the
diseases (cancer, acute diarrhea, hepatitis A&E, enteric fever, dengue, malaria), based on overall
district wise data available for Punjab from the State Health Department. DALYs is considered a
measure of the global burden of disease and combines information on morbidity and mortality in
numbers of healthy years lost. It is a summary measure of population health that combines in a
single indicator years of life lost from premature death and years of life lived with disabilities.
DALY can be considered as one lost year of 'healthy' life and the burden of disease (which is a
measurement of the gap between current health status and an ideal situation where everyone lives
into old age free of disease and disability), and is taken as a summation of Years Lost Due to
Disability (YLD) for incident cases of health conditions and Year Lost Due to Premature Mortality
(YLL) in the population.
Costs
The costs were divided in the following: Project costs (scheme investment costs, operation and
maintenance costs, capacity building and project management costs, household subsidies, sewerage
schemes, and improved water quality costs. Each category of costs was computed using data from
the MIS and other costs reported by the Government of Punjab.
These costs were predominantly observed in the reports produced by the implementing agencies.
There were contingency costs that were added to the specific contributions by the State and
National Governments. The costs of these contingencies may be included in some of the total costs


                                                36
estimations, but it was not possible to separate the contingent costs from the budgeted costs. All
costs reported are part of the total SWAp program. The costs were extrapolated for the entire
Program, based on the actual phasing of schemes and overall implementation of the program.
Distribution of Benefits and Costs
The distribution of benefits reflected a slow accumulation for all categories from 2007 to 2009.
From 2010 onwards the categories of benefits accrued at a higher rate leading to an overall estimate
of US$ 1,141 million. The most important benefit resulted from the opportunity cost of time saved
from water fetching activities (63%). The second most important benefit came from the out-of-
pocket savings from recurring and capital costs (29%) and the third most important categories are
the value for incremental water and the DALY benefits from averted diseases (2.6 and 2.5% of
total benefits, respectively).
 Total Benefits (in USD million)          2007-2009      2010-2012     2013-2014        Total      %
 Opportunity cost of time saved-water         134.7          224.4         359.1        718.2   62.9%
 Savings in recurring and capital costs           55.9       149.1         130.4        335.4   29.4%
 Value of incremental water                        9.7           9.2           11.1      30.0   2.6%
 Livelihood Direct benefits                        6.9           7.8            9.7      24.3   2.1%
 Costs saved from indirect person
                                                   0.9           1.5            2.0       4.4   0.4%
 days lost due to diseases
 DALY Benefit                                  4.55          10.28         13.76         28.6   2.5%
 Total Benefit                                212.6          402.2         526.0      1,140.9   100%


Project costs were concentrated in scheme investment costs and household connection subsidies.
Total scheme investments (including O&M costs) reached 31% of total costs. A similar proportion
was conducted for household connection costs. The total cost of 97 sewerage systems built reached
13% of total costs. Finally, administrative costs and capacity building activities reached almost 9%
of total costs.
 Costs in USD million                 2007-2009     2010-2012     2013-2014           Total         %
 Total schemes investment costs            16.8          54.7          50.3           121.8     20.4%
 Operation and Maintenance costs           14.4           26.6          21.7           62.7     10.5%
 Administrative costs (capacity
                                            9.3           24.3          20.3           53.9     9.0%
 building and program mgmt.)
 Household connection costs                55.7           59.7          66.8          182.2     30.6%
 Sewerage schemes                          14.8           34.5          29.6           78.8     13.2%
 Improved water quality                    30.2           36.2          30.2           96.5     16.2%
 Total Costs                              141.1          236.0         218.9          596.0     100%


Expected Rate of Return versus Observed Rate of Return
The ERR of the SWAp program was estimated to be 23% at project appraisal. With the scenarios
highlighted in the appraised cost-benefit analysis the project would reach an ERR of 12 (with a cost
increase of 36% or a benefit reduction of 54%, or a combined 21% average decrease in benefits
and increase in costs.
Delays in implementation may have played a role in the reduction of the ERR. As stated in the
appraisal-stage cost-benefit analysis delays of two to three years in program implementation would

                                                    37
reduce ERR 12 percentage points. The observed rate of return of the project (assuming a consistent
12% discount rate during the lifetime of the program) showed that the rate of return of the project
was 14% with a benefit to cost ratio of almost 2.0, as a minimum return. However, the overall
return of the project improves when adding benefits to water investments. Incremental benefits on
health, continuity of service and value of water come from exemplary villages (42) and those
villages with schemes with medium and high sustainability scores (1108). Exemplary villages
reported high sustained connection rates and highest rates of hours of supply per day, and high
sustainability villages reported high continuity of service. Adding these benefits to these types of
villages implies increasing health, value of water (exemplary villages) and continuity of service
weights, which in turn improved the economic return of the project to 15.6% (benefit to cost ratio
of 2.1), and up to 16.3% (benefit to cost ratio of 2.2), in this last case when adding also the
incremental value of water.

  Project Indicators                                                 ERR                Benefit Cost Ratio
  Estimated                                                         23.70%                    4.96
  Observed                                                          13.90%                    1.91
  Observed with exemplary and sustainability villages *             15.62%                    2.15
  Observed with exemplary and sustainability villages **            16.25%                    2.24
  *added health benefits and continuity of service
  ** added health, continuity and incremental value of water


Efficiency Analysis
The project showed a wide variation in cost across habitations. Depending on the number of
households served, schemes built or rehabilitated and service improvements, district data showed
high variability of per unit cost. The spending efficiency of the program (comparing actual
disbursements to undisbursed amounts) also varied by component.
The IDA component allocated 65.4 percent to improvement of water supply, almost 12 percent to
sanitation infrastructure and 23 percent in other costs, including program management and capacity
building activities. Overall the project reached almost 80 percent disbursements from the original
allocation. The overall distribution of undisbursed funds of the project corresponded to: 63 percent
to program management, -1.3 percent to infrastructure (more money allocated and disbursed that
originally appraised), and 18 percent to capacity building.


                                                     Water Supply          Sanitation          Other Costs
        Percent Total Cost Allocation                    65.4%               11.6%                23.0%


The project’s ERR of the SWAp program at appraisal and completion showed the following
composition:
        Assessed risk at appraisal were correctly envisaged to absorb negative impacts based on
         changes in the estimated (ex ante) and observed (ex post) ERR per component




                                                        38
       The ERR for water supply (including water quality) showed a 26.2 percent estimation at
        appraisal and upon program completion the ERR decreased to only 8.1 percent as a
        minimum rate. Considering the incremental benefits in health, continuity of service and
        value of water added in exemplary villages (42) and sustainability villages (1108) the
        observed rates of return for water investments increased up to 12.3 percent. For sanitation
        the appraisal ERR was estimated at 17.7 percent but showed a return of 20.2 percent, based
        on 98 sanitation systems constructed.
       Total project EER shifted from 23.2% at appraisal to 13.9% at completion. An increase in
        project’s unit costs from appraisal to completion of 64%, or a reduction of 18% in water
        supply benefits (or a combination of both of average 23% shift) led to a ERR of 13.9% for
        the project. The assumptions at appraisal dealt with a combination of 54% of project cost
        increase with a 36% reduction in benefits (only water supply) to observe a reduction of the
        ERR to 12%.
 Overall, the return on investment (ROI) shows the observed net benefit ratio of the program
(calculated as a percentage of money spent on the program). Any value greater than zero on the
ROI indicates a positive return on program’s investment. The overall ROI for the program is 0.91.


                   Water                                                                   Return      o    n
  ERR                                Sanitation         Total Project     BC Ratio
                   Supply                                                                  Investment (ROI)

  Appraisal        26.2%             17.7%              23.2%             4.96             N/A
  Completion       8.1%              20.2%              13.9%             1.91             0.91
  Difference       -18.1%            2.5%               -9.3%


                                                                                         Rate of Return with
                                                          Rate of Return with
                                Rate of Return                                         Exemplary Villages and
                                                        Exemplary Villages and
                                 (Minimum)                                              Sustainability villages
                                                        Sustainability Villages *
                                                                                                 **
  Water Supply only                 8.10%                          11.1%                          12.3%
  Water Supply and
                                    13.9%                          15.6%                          16.3%
  Sanitation
  *Added health benefits and
  continuity of service
  ** Added health benefits and continuity of service; plus the incremental value of water (for 42 exemplary
  villages).


                                          Appraisal             Completion       % Change
  Unit Costs                                     23.6                   38.7          64%
  Total Number of NC/PC
                                               8,343                15,375            84%
  Habitations




                                                         39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                    Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Abhyankar, Ghanasham V      Consultant                             GWADR       Task Team Leader
                                                                   SARPS -
Sushil Kumar Bahl           Senior Procurement Specialist                      Procurement
                                                                     HIS
Manvinder Mamak             Senior Financial Management Specialist GGODR    Financial Management
Meera Mehta                 Senior Financial Specialist            GWASA    Financial Management
                                                                            Environmental
Sanjay Pahuja               Lead Water Resources Specialist         GWADR
                                                                            Safeguards
Suryanarayan Satish         Senior Social Development Specialist    GSURR Social Safeguards
                                                                    SASDS -
David T. J. Savage          Senior Institutional Dev. Specialist            Technical
                                                                      HIS
                                                                            Environmental
Sanjay Srivastava           Lead Environmental Specialist           GENDR
                                                                            Safeguards

Supervision/ICR
Christian Borja-Vega        Economist                                GWASP     ICR Economic Analysis
                                                                     SARPS -
Manmohan Singh Bajaj        Senior Procurement Specialist                      Procurement
                                                                       HIS
Kiran Ranjan Baral       Consultant                                  GENDR     Procurement
Maruthi Mohan Dhrmapuram Local Consultant ST                         GSURR     Technical
                                                                               Environmental
Pyush Dogra                 Senior Environmental Specialist          GENDR
                                                                               Safeguards
Soma Ghosh Moulik           Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist   GWADR       Technical
Mohan Gopalakrishnan        Senior Financial Management Specialist GGODR       Financial Management
                                                                               Environmental
Priti Kumar                 Senior Environmental Specialist          GFADR
                                                                               Safeguards
Tanuj Mathur                Senior Financial Management Specialist GGODR       Financial Management
Meera Mehta                 Senior Financial Specialist            GWASA       Financial Management
                                                                               Environmental
Sanjay Pahuja               Lead Water Resources Specialist         GWADR
                                                                               Safeguards
Srinivasa Rao Podipireddy   Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist    GWADR      Task Team Leader
Shyamal Sarkar              Consultant                              GSURR      Task Team Leader
Suryanarayan Satish         Senior Social Development Specialist    GSURR      Social Safeguards
Tashi Tenzing               Consultant                              GSURR      Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                11.18                         23.96



                                                 40
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
  FY06                                   41.21                         113.78
  FY07                                   44.92                         121.40
                         Total:          97.31                         259.14
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                    6.36
  FY08                                   1.48                            92.26
  FY09                                  44.87                           130.19
  FY10                                  30.02                           101.15
  FY11                                  26.80                           106.87
  FY12                                  28.30                           134.02
  FY13                                  28.88                            86.77
  FY14                                  29.99                           104.24
  FY15                                  25.57                            96.18
                         Total:       215.91                           858.04




                                      41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                    43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1.      Context at appraisal
1.1      Key Sector Issues in Punjab: Nearly 30% of the habitations were not having access to
basic drinking water service. The remaining 70% habitations had piped water systems, but many
of these were suffering from extremely low customer base and poor O&M performance. As a result,
about 60 % households in Punjab were dependent on unsafe private drinking water sources. With
high O&M costs of the Department of Water Supply and Sanitation (DWSS) and low O&M cost
recovery from users, the water supply systems were becoming unsustainable. About 50%
households had toilets. However, highly charged septic tank effluent from the households flowing
in open drains, had degraded the environmental conditions in the habitations, posing serious health
hazard. The new schemes were planned and built with limited or no participation of the end users
in decision making or service management. Main causes for poor sector performance included: lack
of separation of different roles within the sector institution, limited decentralization and local
capacities, fragmented sector finances, highly centralized decision-making and approvals, low
priority and accountability in ensuring customer satisfaction, and weak monitoring systems.
1.2      Government of Punjab’s (GoP) Vision and Medium-term Sector Program: GoP’s
vision and long term strategy aimed at covering all Punjab habitations with 100 % water supply
coverage with higher service standards and private service connections to most households as well
as providing modern underground waste water collection and disposal systems at an estimated cost
of about US$ 1.2 billion- over a period of next 15 years. However, in the medium term (over the
next 5 years) it proposed to implement a more modest and prioritized Medium term sector Program
(MTP) of about US$ 364 M, considering the likely financing envelopes that may be available, the
State’s absorption capacity, and DWSS and rural local government’s implementation capacity.
MTP’s main objectives include: a) coverage of all Not Covered (NC) and Partially Covered (PC)
habitations to reach at least a Fully Covered (FC) status, b) ensuring sustainability of water supply
services, and c) initiating measures to improve village level environmental sanitation. This was to
be achieved through empowerment of GPs and local communities for decentralized service delivery,
and implementing institutional reforms to strengthen DWSS capacity to effectively manage and
monitor the use of participatory processes and demand responsive approach. The proposed MTP
was financed from already assured funding of about US$ 102 M for completing the ongoing
schemes and by implementing a US$ 262 M proposed SWAp program with assistance from GoI
and IDA. The SWAp program was to fund the schemes that use the new consistent sector policy
principles and implementation arrangements for all sources of financing.
1.3      Rationale for Bank involvement: The overarching challenge of the Bank’s Current
Country Strategy for India (Sept 2004) was to leverage Bank’s limited and diverse resources to
scale up its impact. Thus, Bank’s support to India’s RWSS program mainly aimed at assisting India
in scaling up nationwide reform approach.
Punjab’s ownership and keen desire for reforms was evident from a number of reform initiatives
already taken by the State. Further, despite being a relatively prosperous state, Punjab needed
significant improvements in the quality of rural water and sanitation service delivery requiring both
additional investments and reforms. Thus, Bank extended support to Punjab as a part of the Bank’s
strategy to assist GoI in scaling up the reforms nationwide and contribute to achieving the water
and sanitation related MDGs.



                                                 44
1.4     Higher level objectives to which the project contributes: The project also contributed
in achieving its broader development goals of achieving health and water security, poverty
reduction, higher enrollment of children, particularly girls, in schools, and reduction in infant
mortality and maternal mortality rates. The project also supported GoP’s efforts in accelerating the
process of decentralization by building the capacity of the rural local governments in development
and delivery of rural services.
Prior Implementation Picture:
      1. The existing rural water supply schemes based upon two sources i.e. tube well (80%) or
         surface water through canal network (20%) could not ensure adequate water availability
         and security at household level because:
                 Less than 20% households had individual house connections.
                 There was considerable wastage of potable water among users due to absence of
                  household taps
                 There was deficient supply at tail ends due to inadequate pressure.
                 Owing to large scale extraction of groundwater for irrigation, the shallow aquifers
                  were over exploited resulting in significant decline in groundwater levels.
      2. Water quality and Impact of degradation of village Ponds on shallow water aquifers.
      3. Large numbers of Rural Water Supply schemes are operated in remote-areas of Punjab
         where monitoring of day to day working of infrastructure is a challenge. There is no
         accountability for non performance by staff in fixing defects and leakages, being
         responsive to population needs and maintaining a sustained quality water supply. To
         compound issues, villagers had to travel long distances to lodge complaints with no system
         for monitoring complaints and issue resolution driving a complete loss in faith in water
         supply system operated by government.
      4. Lack of demand based water supply system infrastructure with a manual billing system
         were driving high water wastage (due to hoarding) and unauthorized water connections.
         An unfair flat rate tariff system unfairly impacted low income families consuming less
         water compared to larger houses.
      5. No Involvement of users/ beneficiaries in the planning process.
1.5     Vision & Purpose: GOP’s vision was to develop an eco system to provide 24X7 water
supply coverage to all villages in Punjab (including remote) with higher service standards and
Individual household service connections coupled with modern underground waste water collection
and disposal system.
1.6       Adoption of 5 point framework to realize the vision:
      1. Rural local governments with user groups to be responsible for up gradation and
         management of all intra – village RWSS facilities and services;
      2. DWSS to be responsible for managing complex multi village water supply schemes with
         improved fiscal & operational performance, and provide support to Gram Panchayat Water
         Supply & Sanitation Committees (GPWSCs) for single village schemes;



                                                 45
      3. Introducing partial capital cost sharing by users as an expression of their demand;
      4. Financing of recurrent Operations & Maintenance cost by user communities; and
      5. Redefining DWSS role from direct service delivery to facilitation and partnership
1.7       Key Priorities:
      1. Coverage of all Not Covered (NC) and Partially Covered (PC) villages to reach at least a
         Fully Covered (FC) status.
      2. Ensure sustainability of water supply services, and
      3. Initiate measures to improve village level environmental sanitation through empowerment
         of GPs and local communities for decentralized service delivery.
1.8       Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s): 8 key performance indicators were established
      1. Providing /augmenting Rural Water Supply Schemes in 3000 NC and PC villages
      2. Improvement of existing water supply schemes in 223 villages
      3. Providing solid free sewerage schemes in 100 villages.
      4. Strengthen capacity of DWSS to effectively manage and monitor the use of participatory
         processes and demand responsive approach.
      5. Reduce wastage of water to 10% by providing demand based service to consumers and for
         charging water tariff on volumetric basis to bring equity amongst various users.
      6. Transition to a computerized billing system by December 2011, providing timely water
         bills to allow consumers to track usage & consumption, address pilferage, and penalize late
         payments
      7. Establishing state of art water testing labs at District headquarters and in sub - divisional
         levels with a goal of testing 36,000 samples per year (100 samples / lab / month) to ensure
         quality compliance per BIS standard IS-10500:1991 (Rev.-2)
      8. Sign a tripartite agreement between State of Punjab, Govt. of India and World bank by
         early 2007 to finance the budget cost outlay of Rs. 1280 crore and drive solutions within
         budget
1.9      Implementation Strategy: The project sponsored interventions were expected to bring
about public health and environmental benefits, by improving delivery and quality of RWSS
services
      1. An effective communication strategy was adopted coupled with IEC activities during pre-
         planning, planning, implementation and post-implementation stages to drive grass root
         adoption. Emphasis was placed on IEC, HRD and capacity building program to sensitize
         stakeholders and bring behavioral changes to address unwillingness to pay, reluctance to
         private connections etc.
      2. Source selection was conducted with due regard to ensure water quality of the source and
         year around adequacy of water supply and long term sustainability of resource.
      3. Gram Panchayat / Gram Panchayat Water & Sanitation committee (GPs / GPWSCs) are
         responsible for planning, technology selection, procurement, construction & O&M
         management of all new Single Village (SV) water supply schemes and all intra-village


                                                  46
       water supply works of Multi Village (MV) schemes with capacity support from DWSS /
       NGOs / Private sector.
                  The role of DWSS mainly covers: (i) overall RWSS program management
                   including IEC and M&E of activities, outcomes and impacts; (ii) development and
                   management of common infrastructure of MV schemes with improved financial
                   and operational performance; (iii) planning and construction of community
                   sanitation schemes with active participation of GPs and households; and (iv)
                   arranging social, technical and management support to GPs and GPWSCs for all
                   intra-village RWS schemes.
                  Self selection of Villages based on transparent eligibility and selection criteria.
                   GPs now apply to District Programme Management Cell endorsing the project
                   principles to seek project support, major process and behavioural transformation.
                  Users finance at least 10% of capital cost. To ensure affordability, upper ceiling of
                   Rs. 800 per household in normal areas and Rs. 400 per household in difficult areas
                   were fixed. Schedule Caste households were required to contribute only 50% of
                   these amounts.
   4. All schemes implemented under MTP by adopting Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) are to
      be operated and maintained by GPWSCs. Users will finance recurrent O&M costs
      (electricity bill, staff cost, chemicals, minor repairs and routine maintenance), through user
      charges.
1.10    Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators: The Project development
objective was to assist GoP in increasing access of the rural communities to improved and
sustainable RWSS services.
The key outcome indicators of the development objectives are the following:
        (i)            percentage of habitations in the rural areas of Punjab that are fully covered
                       (FC) for access to drinking water;
        (ii)           percentage of rural households in the state with access to safe and adequate
                       drinking water supply throughout the year; and
        (iii)          percentage of participating habitations having satisfactorily performing
                       community sanitation facilities.
1.11   Revised PDO: PDO remained unchanged.
1.12    Main Beneficiaries: The primary target group was the rural communities and in
particular the poor and vulnerable groups in all 20/ 22 districts of Punjab.
1.13   Status Of Implementation Performance: World Bank team after its visit as
Implementation Support Mission# 17 (Final), from December 26-30, 2014 commended
implementation performance. The relevant para as given in Aide-Memoire is reproduced below:
      The project has made excellent progress on all components (Annex I).The table below
       summarizes the current status of project achievements against targets, as well as expected
       end of project achievements.




                                                   47
                                          Mission Sept         Mission Dec 14
                                                                                        End of
                             Target           2014                (current)
     Project Components                                                                 Project
                             Villages   Comp       In         Comp        In
                                                                                      Achievement
                                        leted   progress      leted    Progress
 Water Supply (Total
                             3,200 4,018             50        4068               -   4,068 (127%)
 Swap)
 Water Supply (IDA)          1,200 1,412             44        1452          ‐        1,452 (121%)
 Sewer Schemes                 100       41          57          97              1        97 (97%)
 Performance
 Improvement of Water          200      350         385         579               -   579* (289%)
 Supply Schemes*
* excluding schemes provided with only water meters
         In addition, the project has demonstrated excellent results in service delivery and
          sustainability which are not envisaged in the original project design. These achievements
          make Punjab an exemplary state in India and helped the follow on project to mainstream
          these next generation activities:
      Perhaps, the first state to have zero NC villages; equal to 100% coverage of water supply.
      Number of villages delivering water supply for over 10 hours a day – 107 No
      Villages delivering continuous water – 24x7 – 78 villages.
      Number of villages having water metered / volumetric tariff – 335 villages
      Villages with 100% water connections – 475 No
      Villages with water connections between 70 – 99 % – 655 No.
      Number of villages recovering full cost including power – IDA SWAp 940(of 1452)
      605 exemplary villages – best in management of services
       As above, the project has demonstrated striking results and has exceeded its physical
          targets. However, as project end date was extended twice before, implementation progress
          remains rated as “Satisfactory”.
2.        Achievements and Progress update:
1. Against the target for covering 3200 NC and PC villages under State Government’s Medium
   Term Program; 4068 villages (127%) have been commissioned up to 31.12.2014.
2. O&M of Water Supply scheme in 2824 villages developed with intense IEC inputs; is being
   done by GPWSCs.
3. With sustained awareness program to ensure availability of drinking water at the doorstep of
   the rural houses, 1233 villages in Punjab stand covered with 100% individual household
   connections apart from 335 villages getting metered water supply leading to 24x7 water supply
   in 132 villages.
3.        Ponds rejuvenation program progress :
3.1 Initiative: Restore pristine eco system of chocked village ponds through a unique initiative
using Waste Stabilization techniques.
3.2 Technology: The pond renovation technology was evolved to suit local conditions from
“Technical Note on solid & Liquid waste management in Rural areas”, prepared by Govt of
India & UNICEF

                                                 48
3.3 Key Challenges: The major difficulty encountered in implementation of project (findings from
Ludhiana pilot) was dewatering & disposal of sullage water. The intensive cropping pattern in the
State allows this to be accomplished only between sowing & harvesting of two major crops of the
State i.e. Paddy & Wheat. The department has received deluge of petitions from different villages
to bring their ponds under this project. DWSS has rejuvenated 162 villages ponds in Punjab with
involvement of village PRIs as pilot.
4.       Metering in villages:
Since June of 2011, water meters have been installed in 355 villages with 100% water connections
in all homes and whose GPWSCs have shown willingness for 24x7 water supply through water
meters. So far 132 villages have already achieved 24x7 water supply.
Results achieved with 100% metering of supply:
    Households consuming less water are now paying less. As billing is linked with usage of water,
     it helps poor families as their water consumption is less compared to large houses. This has
     driven reduction in poor family monthly tariff compared to previous flat rate system which was
     same for all.
    The water pressure at tail end of distribution network has increased due to judicious use
     Water Supply has become reliable and self confidence of community to operate & maintain
     piped water supply system has increased. Installation of bulk water meter at water works site
     detects leakages and loss due to unauthorized water connections. Water auditing of has
     revealed steep reduction in unaccounted water i.e. less than 5% against national average of
     30% to 40%.
    Equitable water supply to all consumers has increased the consumer satisfaction level.
Results: Target of more than 70% individual water connections (breakeven point for O&M
sustainability) has been achieved in 2824 villages whereas 100% households have been covered
with water connections in 1233 villages.
5.       Centralized Complaint Redressal System (Shikayat Nivarn Kendra)
India’s democratic experience of more than six decades has clearly established that good
governance goes parallel with expansion of social opportunities and poverty alleviation. The vision
on good governance took into account needs of customers and development of an effective and
accountable system for people to get resource benefits and efficient service.
5.1 In House innovation: The idea of leveraging Information technology and communication tools
to address complaints and staff motivation drove the establishment of Shikayat Nivaran Kendra in
state of Punjab. The system operates efficiently 24x7 and has helped to meet goals to provide relief
to customers with timely issue resolution, on-line registration and status of trouble tickets relating
to water supply issues by citizens
5.2 Implementation Results: The system has helped in restoring known issues when serving
customers in rural areas.
    Improved the quality of service delivery system with optimum inputs of man, machine &
     material while utilizing the latest e-governance methods and techniques.



                                                 49
    With the start of Shikayat Nivaran Kendra, every rural citizen, even the poorest one can now
     get the water supply complaint registered free of cost on Toll free Tel. No. 1800-180-2468.
    SNK reaches out to approx. 149 lac rural population being served through 13380 habitations.
     Every concerned official is directly connected to the online complaints red ressal system
     through Telephone, Email & SMS. SNK management & operation is outsourced to third party
     to ensure transparency in issue resolution
            Daily progress report is reviewed at highest level i.e. Secretary to Govt. Punjab, Water
             Supply & Sanitation Dept. to ensure leadership interest in the initiative
            A toll free number obtained from BSNL having six telephone hunting lines was
             installed in SNK. The Rural Water Supply consumers register their complaints as well
             as retrieve latest status of complaints registered through unique complaint number
             provided to them. An Advanced Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system activated
             at SNK also helps customers to easily lodge complaints at the call center.
            Time for redressal of some typical type of complaints is prefixed and concerned
             officials are expected to rectify/ correct the issue within this fixed time frame & report
             back to SNK through Phone/SMS to enable SNK to inform status to Complainant.
    In case, the complaint is not rectified within stipulated period, the same is escalated to next
     level senior officer for his intervention after every 24 hours, i.e. Superintending Engineer or
     Chief Engineer as per hierarchy.
    Check on non-performance/ absenteeism among lower ranks of employees in remote villages
     with associated disciplinary actions. Performance of department is assessed on daily basis.
    Time bound delivery of services and higher operation and maintenance standards. Availability
     of clean water leading to good health with huge social sector benefits.
    Public satisfaction due to efficiency in service delivery/ prompt complaint redressal driving
     increased faith in working of govt. department and reduction in closure/ downtime days of
     water supply schemes. It may be noted that 44636 complaints (as on 12.05.2015), have been
     addressed to the satisfaction of the complainants since program inception (1.12.2009) with
     Shikayat Nivaran Kendra.
6.       Addressing Water Quality Concerns
Department of Water Supply and Sanitation has set up 33 Water Testing Laboratories. 21
Laboratories have been setup at District headquarters, 8 Laboratories at Sub-Divisional level and 3
Mobile Water Testing Laboratory - Analyses 100 water samples per month at random from various
source each mobile lab. A State level laboratory functions at Patiala. All these laboratories have
been given a target for analysis of 36,000 samples per year (100 samples/lab /month) and are
equipped with Spectrophotometer, pH meter, TDS / conductivity meter, autoclave, incubator,
distillation still, turbidity meter, laminar airflow, hot air oven and are capable of conducting
analysis of Fluoride, Nitrate, Sulfate, Iron, Hardness, Total Dissolved Solids, Turbidity, pH,
alkalinity, residual Chlorine, and Bacteriological analysis.
    Approximately 100 water samples from different schemes are tested in each laboratory and the
     analysis report is entered online on IMIS of Govt. of India upto 17th of each month with monthly
     reviews by Secretary to Govt. of Punjab, Deptt. of Water Supply and Sanitation.


                                                  50
    Crosschecking / random testing of the test results is done through a Mobile Water Testing
     Laboratory, which also analyses 100 water samples per month at random from various source/
     consumer points.
    To ensure supply of safe drinking water in the villages affected by High concentration of TDS,
     Uranium, Heavy Metals etc. beyond permissible limits, GOP has tackled heavy metal
     contamination in 1811 villages through self sustained RO plants. 561 villages are being covered
     with financial assistance from NABARD (Rs. 88.75 Cr.) and approval for installation of
     additional 1829 ROs (Rs. 267 Cr.) is awaited.
    The Department has also upgraded its State Laboratory in Patiala by procuring Atomic
     Absorption Spectrophotometer, Ion meter capable of testing Heavy Metals.
    Regional Advance Water Testing Laboratory at cost of Rs. 432 lacs has been set up in Mohali
     with technical guidance from BARC Mumbai. This lab is capable of testing Uranium & Heavy
     Metals contamination in water.
7.       Creative Communication strategy to engage grass roots program adoption:
Background: Under 74th Constitutional amendment for empowerment of PRIs, 840 single village
water supply schemes were handed over to village panchayats in 2003, but did not function
effectively due to lack of motivation and adoption at grass roots level. These learning’s were
taken into account when formulating an effective communication strategy to support
decentralization of service delivery objectives.
Department has achieved significant success in providing basic minimum service level for drinking
water supply to most of its rural population since April 2008. However, operational & financial
sustainability of commissioned water supply schemes remains an acid test for officials. With
adoption of SWAp - a decentralized approach - there is a dramatic paradigm shift to make program
demand driven & people oriented. Communication played a pivotal role to enable this shift with
active participation of stakeholders at every stage from pre-planning to O&M phase. Strategic
micro & macro planning was initiated & a wing created with social scientists to enable grass root
level changes.
Intensive IEC activities were undertaken such as:
          Personal Contact Proegramme                   Water Quality Testing
          Social             mapping/painting           School Rallies
          competitions
          Muniyadi /Puppet show/Street plays            Pictorial wall paintings
          Relay of audio visual jingles,                Road Shows
          Broadcast of video documentaries              Exposure tours, and
          Press and Media interventions at State and District level.
Communication material on all stages of scheme was disseminated in the form of Brochures, Flip
Charts, Fliers, Posters, Handbooks newsletters etc. to penetrate new SWAp concept at grassroots
level and provide adequate knowledge & information to stakeholders for proper implementation of
scheme.
Capacity Building plan developed to deal with core issues from pre-planning to post
implementation phases involving GPWSCs and different stakeholders.
Conclusion:

                                                 51
    DWSS has connected the dots in revolutionizing water supply and sanitation in state of Punjab
     by scientific analysis of current state picture and by taking steps to develop a coherent eco
     system and an implementation strategy for decentralized service delivery which is both
     sustainable and scalable.
    The system connects with community & leverages IT in implementing timely issue resolution
     and institutionalizing a 360 feedback mechanisms to restore faith in communities.
    It scientifically addresses water quality through exhaustive testing and state of art labs and
     review processes to comply with set standards and has put in motion some interesting
     innovative pilots to bolster replenishing water supply in shallow water aquifers and improving
     social fabric of villages through ponds rejuvenation.
    Automated billing systems were introduced to provide a variety of benefits and achieve
     breakeven points in operations and maintenance of water supply in rural villages of Punjab
    A comprehensive communication strategy was unfolded to win the hearts and minds of people
     to drive grass root level program adoption. This has been demonstrated with 100% household
     participation in pilot villages and the creation of exemplary role model villages to win over
     other villages having difficulties in implementation and sharing of best practices
    Community empowerment and process reforms were two key hallmarks of success of this
     project in Punjab.
8.       New Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Policy:
Govt. of Punjab has approved a Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Policy 2014 on 24.2.14. Realizing
the need for institutional and investment reforms in the rural water supply and sanitation sector,
Government of Punjab has reworked its rural water supply and sanitation policy. Its objectives are
as under::-

     •   Water coverage: To provide 100% coverage of all households in rural areas of Punjab
         with at least 70 litres per capita per day (lpcd) of potable water, supplied through 24x7
         piped and metered individual water supply connections.

     •   Sanitation coverage: To ensure that 100% of rural households have access to and use safe
         sanitation facilities that do not contaminate the environment, particularly ground water.

     •   Hygiene: To ensure that 100% of rural households practice safe personal hygiene practices,
         especially hand washing at critical times, to minimize risks of water-related diseases.

     •   Sustainable water supply: To ensure the availability, quality and sustainability of
         domestic water supplies by (1) conserving existing water sources (2) improving the
         efficiency of existing schemes (including reduction of losses) and their financial viability;
         (3) using all possible options of water treatment as per requirement; and (3) developing
         new and sustainable water sources

     •   Water regulation: To regulate the use of water, using institutional and legal means, so as
         to provide adequate water to all users, to ensure the safety and security of water services
         systems and to facilitate long-term financial self-sustainability amongst water service
         operators.



                                                 52
      •   Environmental sustainability: To improve the quality of life and environment through
          the effective and efficient management of water services.

      •   User participation: To ensure effective participation of users in developing, operating and
          maintaining water supply services and to empower them to manage their own water supply
          and environmental sanitation services.

      •   Institutional capacity: To improve institutional capacity and human resources of
          government departments to provide efficient, effective and sustainable water and sanitation
          services, by working with empowered and capacitated local communities
Sanitation sector: Similarly salient features of sanitation sector as per approved water supply &
sanitation policy 2014 are as under:
     Sanitation Coverage: To ensure that 100% of rural households have access to and use safe
      sanitation facilities that do not contaminate the environment, particularly ground water.To
      address this problem, the DWSS shall:
          o   Promote designs for various types of safe sanitation systems, (e.g., proper design of
              septic tanks with soak pits, double leach pit toilets, ecological sanitation systems and
              piped sewerage systems with proper sewage treatment), in all sanitation promotion
              activities.
          o   Enable all rural households to have access to and use safe sanitation systems that
              collect and treat human waste without allowing the contamination of ground water and
              the spread of diseases.
          o   Support GPs/VWSCs to manage solid wastes and waste water in their villages (e.g.,
              by renovation of existing ponds by dredging and growing aquatic plants like Arundo,
              Phragmites and duckweed).
          o   Provide technical assistance for treating waste water, renovating and remodelling
              village ponds, identifying appropriate land fill sites and sourcing incinerators.
9.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
9.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Use of Lessons in Project Design. The main lesson incorporated is the introduction of
decentralized service delivery approach, including community demand driven approach with
partial capital cost recovery and 100 percent O&M financing by the users that unveiled the major
shift from adopting a supply driven mode to a more demand driven and decentralized service
delivery approach.
Focus on Institutional Changes. The project objectives focused on piloting the institutional
change that was needed to test and implement the new approach. The project components
represented a balance of institutional support, capacity building and infrastructure development.
Government Commitment and Risks: State's commitment and ownership to the reform agenda
remained firm throughout project implementation. The project design had identified all the
possible risks – which were negligible to modest- and the actual implementation experienced only
minor risks.



                                                  53
9.2       Implementation:
Implementation was satisfactory throughout the course of the project. The PAD physical targets
were not only fully achieved at the extended closing date of December 2014 but substantially
exceeded by this revised closing date except sewerage schemes where achievement remained 97%.
Innovation during implementation: During implementation the project innovated some models
to prepare the state for eventual scaling up as highlighted below:
      1. Its unique process and technology innovations backed by scientific research and analytical
         data insights in the implementation of a sustainable high quality 24 X 7 water supply in
         villages of Punjab
      2. A first of its kind partnership model between DWSS & villages, based on empowering
         villages and their leadership (sarpanch and panchayats) by using creative social recognition
         programs to foster sense of pride and ownership amongst villages by allowing them to take
         control of their lifestyle and destiny.
      3. An innovative communication strategy driving 100% household adoption (going above the
         breakeven 70% household participation number in villages to support economics of
         operating and maintaining water supply infrastructure)
      4. Renovating village ponds and surrounding eco system to drive harvesting of rain water in
         villages to replenish a fast depleting shallow ground aquifer.
      5. Developing a comprehensive model of metered water supply to improve operational
         efficiencies and pave way for a demand based tariff system reducing water wastage to 10%
         leading to cost effective maintenance economics for sustainability of operations
      6. GoP developed a sound policy framework in 2014 to move at advanced scale. GoP took
         decision to further scale up the project approach and sought continued Bank assistance to
         do so.
The innovation, creativity, surpassing of customer expectations in the development of an end to
end eco system by DWSS to implement a first of its kind decentralized supply of round the clock
high quality water in Punjab villages has been appreciated all over.
9.3      Monitoring & Evaluation: The project was successful in institutionalizing the mechanism
of information processing and data analysis on MIS system developed by DWSS. Excellent M&E
capacity has been developed during the project within DWSS both at Zonal level as well as at the
districts level. The MIS will continue to be used by the GOP for all related activities to be
implemented in the future and DWSS will further upgrade the existing MIS during the follow-on
project.
9.4       Safeguard & Fiduciary Compliance:
Social Safeguards: No lands were acquired involuntarily. Land requirement for (i) water source;
(ii) water treatment plants; (iii) construction of underground or overhead tanks were provided by
village Panchayat. Also, there are no tribal (indigenous peoples) habitations in Punjab hence no
Tribal Development Plan was required to be prepared.
Environmental Safeguards: It has already been determined that the proposed project activities do
not trigger OP/BP 7.50 (Projects on International Waterways).


                                                  54
Fiduciary Management: Fiduciary compliance was satisfactory throughout implementation. Fund
flow and expenditures monitoring were adequate. Financial management reports were prepared in
a timely manner throughout project implementation.
Procurement: Procurement was carried out in accordance with the agreed procedures, despite the
highly decentralized schemes involving a large number of implementing agencies (GPs).
9.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:
The post completion operation is adequately addressed: Project design was adequate in ensuring
sustainability on all fronts: technical, financial and institutional. All the WSS have been completed
and commissioned and are being operated and maintained (many of these now for more than 5
years) by GPWSCs.
Project’s sustainability prospects are good: Overall performance of GPs/ GPWSCs in managing the
water and sanitation facilities has been so far excellent. The capacities created under the project
will continue to be available for the sector. GOP has now got a follow-on WB assisted project for
continued support. This aimed at scaling up the reforms tested during this Phase-1 project.
10.     Assessment of outcomes
10.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives remain highly relevant to current GOP priorities. The Rural Water Supply
& Sanitation Policy notified in 2014 by the Water Supply & Sanitation Department is a proof of
the relevance of the project objectives to State priorities. GOP and GPs/ GPWSCs representatives
consider that sustainability of WSS services is a key element of their own accountability. The
decentralized approach built in the project design makes it highly relevant to the priorities of the
GOP.
10.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was “increasing access of rural communities to
improved and sustainable rural water supply and sanitation services”. The project has achieved
this PDO as all the result indicators recorded good achievements. At the state level, villages fully
covered (FC) now stand at 89% as against 43% at the start. The percentage of families that access
safe water has also exceeded expectations with 4068 villages being covered against 3200 villages
targeted. On Sanitation achievements in the participating villages, the number of families likely to
be covered with sewer connections is around 70-80% and more households are connecting. Hence
achievement of PDO was reported “Satisfactory” in Aide-Memoire of Implementation Support
Mission# 17 (Final), December 26-30, 2014.
The key Project achievement is “100% water supply coverage” (by end of December 2014). At the
start of the project, 4261 villages were under the ‘Not Covered’ category for water supply, and that
has now been reduced to almost zero; partially covered villages come down to 1293 from 4082.
Altogether, Water component benefited over 1.8 million rural population in the state.




                                                 55
 Punjab wide Coverage of Rural Habitation with Water Supply(18-9-2014)
 Period            Fully                   Partially          Not   covered Total
                   covered(FC)             covered (PC)       (NC)
                   Habita %                Habit %            Habita %      Total             %
                   tion                    ation              tion
 2003 Habitation 4091       28.01          5256     35.99     5258   36.00 14605              100
 Survey
 Final    coverage 6262     42.88          4082      27.95    4261       29.17    14605       100
 expected       by
 March 2006
 Coverage as on 10937       89.00          1293      11.00    59         0.50     12289       100
 September 2014

100% water supply coverage was fully achieved and the key outcome targets were exceeded. The
project has successfully demonstrated that GPs and communities, including the poorest and the
vulnerable groups, can demand, plan, design, implement and manage water supply and sanitation
schemes, and contribute to partial capital investment and fully recover operation and maintenance
cost. This is an outstanding achievement in a context where community empowerment and process
reforms were not given the deserved importance. The project has established not only the
community based mechanism, defined role of communities but has motivated them to demand for
a facility i.e. water and sanitation which is their primary need.
11.       Lessons learnt
      a) People can implement and manage community driven project and meet the O&M needs if
         properly trained and empowered to do so. The success here in water sector rekindles a hope
         of entrusting such activities in other sectors of health, electricity, social welfare, tourism,
         irrigation, law and order (community policing) etc. to the communities.
      b) Empowering women in shouldering responsibilities can develop leadership qualities
         among rural folks.
      c) The empowered GPWSCs at panchayat level were slowly emerging as units of “local
         governance to tackle local issues”. This in turn has triggered the panchayats to act
         immediately on social issues since they were accountable to voting public.
      d) Transparency and accountability can be ensured if stake holders are balanced through well
         defined powers.
      e) For equitable distribution and prevention of water misuse, metering was helpful to the
         villages and that was made part of the system based on the demand of beneficiaries.
      f) The method of “Cascading effect” experimented by DWSS at GP/ GPWSC level in
         capacity building and information dissemination in the project was very successful.
      g) Decentralized service delivery approach for RWSS has the potential for scaling-up access.
         The project's ability to exceed most of the targets in the Project Development Objective
         coupled with the strengthening of the sector institutions and local government to ensure
         sustained delivery capacity demonstrates the potential of this approach.



                                                   56
      h) Need for Enabling Environment: Ownership of the project design and continuous support
         during its implementation at the political, bureaucratic and operational levels is a
         prerequisite for project success.
      i)   Community Demand Driven is certainly the most appropriate approach for providing
           sustainable and high quality WSS services in rural areas, specially in the context of India.
12.        Hurdles / difficulties/Risks faced:
Various Elections (Lok Sabha, State Assembly, PRIs etc) held during the project implementation
period affected the project execution progress. Majority of the staff members working in PRWSS
Project were recruited to the project on contract basis and key staff leaving the project due to
uncertainty on account of their continuity affected the smooth functioning of project.
13.        Looking forward
Since the project has achieved its goals in the first phase, Government of Punjab decided to
consolidate on the gains by formulating a follow on project proposal which targets to cover water
supply & sanitation sector improvement issues with an estimated cost of Rs. 2200 crore. The second
project namely Punjab Rural Water Sanitation Sector Improvement Project (P150520) already
stand approved and poised to be implemented with the World Bank assistance.




                                                   57
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                    58
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR104.1 million
    (US$154 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of India for the Punjab Rural Water Supply and
    Sanitation Project, November 15,2006 Report No: 37377-In
   Credit Number 4251 – IN Financing Agreement (Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
    Project) between India and International Development Association Dated February 26, 2007.
   Report No: 57373-IN Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Punjab Rural
    Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 4251-IN) to the Republic of India, November 29,
    2010
   Report No: Res10480 Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Punjab Rural
    Water Supply And Sanitation Project (Credit 4251-IN) to the Republic of India August 27,
    2013
   Mission Aide Memoires, Management Letters and Project Implementation Status Reports.
   World Bank Group’s India Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2013–2017
   Punjab State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (Gazette Publication May 16, 2014)
   Government of India 12th Five-Year Plan (2012–17)
   National Rural Drinking Water Program: Movement Towards Ensuring People’s Drinking
    Water Security in Rural India. Guidelines, 2013
   Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Sustainability Assessment through
    Community Participation, Water and Sanitation Program, 2015
   Government of India Planning Commission July 2013 Poverty Estimates for 2011-12
   Operations and Maintenance of Rural Infrastructure in CDD and Community-Based Projects:
    Lessons Learned and Case Studies of Good Practice, World Bank, May 2015
   Review of World Bank Support to the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector In India (1991
    - 2011), World Bank and Water and Sanitation Program, October 2012.
   Gender Inequality, Economic Development, and Globalization: A State Level Analysis of India,
    Rashmi Umesh Arora, The Journal of Developing Areas Volume 46 No. 1 Spring 2012
   Monitoring Data: All monitoring data was provided by the Department of Water Supply &
    Sanitation in Punjab who developed the M&E system containing updates of three main pillars:
    1. Results Framework : The results framework monitoring data reports habitations covered
       depending on the status of schemes (FC, PC, NC), and service performance of water and
       sanitation schemes. The data separates these indicators by type of habitation (MH, OH)
       and reports disaggregated indicators by district.
    2. Program Management and Community Support: Program management data covers
       participating habitations with new schemes under SWAP IDA and Non-IDA support by
       scheme status (NC,PC) and the resources utilized under SWAP program. Also, the
       coverage of habitations is separated by type of habitation (MH, OH) and type of scheme
       (handpump and piped water supply). Community support data reports GPs/GPWSCs’
       rating for operational sustainability of schemes by type of funded program (IDA vs. Non-


                                              59
    IDA), the habitations and GPWSCs that meet Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs—
    through user charges—, and the participating GPWSCs against their billing collection
    ratios. This data reports the number of villages and GP/GPWSCs disaggregated by district.
3. Infrastructure Development Support, Operational Sustainability and Types of Connections:
   The infrastructure development support data covers water schemes under IDA or Non-IDA
   support meeting planned time and costs targets, GPWSCs achievement in terms of planned
   performance improvements of schemes, and community sanitations schemes build. The
   data reports the number and proportion of schemes reaching those targets disaggregated by
   district. For operational sustainability, the data is reported by block, village and scheme
   with regards to the number of households and water connections reaching operational and
   financial viability. Finally, data on “types of connections” reports private and public
   schemes commissioning time, operational arrangements, and density of connections per
   block.
Each monitoring segment collected and updated information throughout the life cycle of the
project. In addition, each monitoring segment disaggregated information by district, scheme,
village/habitation and blocks. Such detailed compilation of information facilitated
understanding of the uptake in works and activities established by the project. Most of the data
allowed for separation between IDA and Non-IDA SWAP program. The monitoring data was
not disaggregated fully for all indicators by non-SWAP programs under the DWSSP.
Cost Data: The cost data was updated until program completion and involved the following
disaggregation:
    Type of institution serving RWSS in Punjab.
    DPMC funding and other sources of funding (National, Local, World Bank)
    Total cost incurred for all projects per district
Household Survey Data:
Survey data was collected at baseline (2007/09) and endline (2014) points. Both surveys
covered a sample of 18 percent of habitations under SWAP IDA, 24 percent under SWAP Non-
IDA and 58 percent under non-Swap schemes, and around 8000 households per round.
The surveys collected the following modules:
    Geographic Identification
    Socio-demographic characteristics of Households
    Employment and activities of household members
    Water Supply Status
    Private and Public Sources
    Water and Sanitation Practices and use
    Community Participation and Field Observations
Community survey modules:
       Performance Improvements of Schemes
       Sanitation and Sewerage
       Grievances Mechanisms
       Governance Mechanisms
       Improvements


                                            60
   Funds and projects for sewerage systems
   Sustainability Survey Figures
   Population served and investments
   Distribution of Tariffs by Income
   Distribution of Scheme by Income




                                     61
62
