Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18696
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3277-MAS)
December 14, 1998
AFTUI
AFC08
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without authorization of the World Bank.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ADF         Programme Asian Development Fund
BRGNP       Black River Gorges National Park
CHF         Swiss francs
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CFTC        Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
DOE         Departmnent of Environment
EIP         Environmental Investrnent Program
EU          European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
GOM         Government of Mauritius
*IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICOD        International Centre for Ocean Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
JICA        Japan International Cooperation Agency
KFW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MEMP        Marine Environment Management Plan
NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
NDF         Nordic Development Fund
NIB         Nordic Investment Bank
NPDP        National Physical Development Plan
ODA         Overseas Development Administration
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        United Nations Development
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/20/98)
Currency Unit = Mauritian rupee (Mau Rs)
US$1.00 = Mau. Rs. 24.775
Mau. Rs. 1.00 = US$0.04036
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    =       3.28 feet
I hectare (ha)   =      2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)    =      0.625 miles
1 liter   =       0.220 imperial gallons
1 cubic meter    =      220 imperial gallons
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Yusupha Crookes
Sector Manager:      Michael Sarris
Team Leader:         Abdelmoula Ghzala



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...................................................i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSESSMENT
A. Background ..................................................1
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................................9
E. Project Sustainability .................................................                            10
F.  Bank Performance ..................................................1.1
G. Borrower Performance .................................................                              12
H. Assessment of Outcome .................................................                             12
I.  Future Operations ..................................................                               13
J.  Key Lessons Learned .................................................                              13
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable                                            .17
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                            18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .                                                  19
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 7A:  Project Costs ...........................................                                   22
Table 7B:  Project Costs ...........................................                                   23
Table 8:       Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                 24
Table 9:       Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                   25
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                   26
APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report ................................ 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3277-MAS)
PREFACE
This :is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Environmental
Monitoring and Development Project in the Republic of Mauritius, for which IBRD Loan
3277 in the amount of US$12.37 million was approved by the Board on December 6,
1990. The loan was declared effective on May 1, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, two years later than the original closing
date. The final disbursement took place on October 21, 1998. A balance of CHF
2,855,335.64 (US$2,088,531.35) was canceled on October 31, 1998. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Canadian International Development Agency.
The ICR was prepared by Wendy Ayres (Environmental Consultant) and reviewed
by Abdelmoula Ghzala (Team Leader), and Philippe de Naurois (Consultant). The
borrower provided its contribution, included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June 1998. It is based on documents in the project files and on information
from interviews with government officials and project staff. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by providing information reflected in the completion mission
aide-memoire, and by preparing its own project execution evaluation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3277)-MAS)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Bank assistance in the environmental sector in Mauritius began with the
development of the 1988 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The NEAP -
one of the first to be developed for any country in the world - sought to identify the
major environmental issues facing.the country and recommended a short-term and
medium-term plan of action for ensuring sustainable development. The report, approved
by the Cabinet, provided the basis of the Environmental Investment Program, of which
the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project is a part.
ii.    Bank involvement in the sector was pivotal in assisting Mauritius to fully
integrate environmental issues into its development agenda: prior to the 1988 NEAP
environmental concerns were virtually nonexistent in the Bank's dialogue with the
Government, but they are now very significant. Further, the country is now a leader in
the region on environmental matters and is assisting its neighbors build capacity so that
they too can better manage their environments.
Project Objectives
iii.   The objectives of the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project, as
stated in the staff appraisal report (SAR), were to put into place the policy and
institutional arrangements necessary to have physical planning, land use control,
infrastructure investment and environmental protection managed in a coordinated and
rational way. The project would also enable the Government take immediate remedial
measures to reverse the trend of environmental degradation and to develop a system of
environmental monitoring and analysis for setting environmental standards and assessing
the viability and cost-effectiveness of future investments. The project was part of the
larger Environmental Investment Program (EIP), with an estimated total cost of US$65
million (1989 dollars). The Bank was one of several major supporters of the overall
program.
iv.   The project included seven components: (a) preparation of a national physical
development plan; (b) establishment of environmental laboratories; (c) site selection and
design for an industrial; (d) national solid waste management plan; (e) research on
integrated pest management (f) marine conservation; and (g) creation of Black River
Gorges National Park. The Borrower and the Bank later agreed to include two additional
activities consistent with project objectives: (a) the construction of one or two waste
transfer stations; and (b) consultancy services to assist with the preparation of the



national environmental strategies (NEAP2) and environmental investment program for
the next decade.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   The Environmental Monitoring and Development Project merits a satisfactory
rating. Bank's and Borrower's performance also merit satisfactory ratings. All project
objectives were met, although with delays in the implementation of the environmental
laboratories component, the solid waste management component, and the national park
component. The project required two, one-year extensions of the loan closing date.
v.    Physical objectives.  The project achieved most of its physical objectives,
although with delays. Four new environmental laboratories were built (instead of
upgrading four, as initially foreseen in the SAR), a sanitary landfill was constructecl, and
access roads, and other small works for the Black Gorges National Park were fully
completed. Plans to construct the industrial park were dropped after detailed feasibility
studies showed that the Government would have to provide subsidies to induce industries
to locate in the park.
vi.   Institutional development objectives.  The project substantially achieved its
institutional development objectives.  Under the project, the newly created the-
Department of Environment' within the Ministry of Local Government and Environment2
became a fully functioning institution.  Ministries and agencies executing various
components of the project were also strengthened.  However, the ministerial-level
National Environment Commission chaired by the Prime Minister has not met since
summer 1995. This intersectoral body was established to set national goals; review and
approve environmental policies, laws, and standards; and provide oversight and
coordination of Government actions. It is important for demonstrating government
commitment to environment and for resolving intersectoral issues. It is no longer
fulfilling the leadership role envisaged in the SAR.
vii.   Sector policy objectives. Project policy objectives were largely attained. The
national physical development plan was completed, providing a framework for future
land use planning. The environmental laboratories are generating data which are
providing good information about the state of the environment and the sources and nature
of pollution. The Mare Chicose sanitary landfill is fully operational, and is a key element
of the country's solid waste management strategy. Blue Bay and Balaclava marine parks
have been officially established. The Black River Gorges National Park has been
formally established and is operational. And the environmental strategies for the next
decade, expected to be completed in spring 1999, will provide Mauritius with a long-term
vision, strategy and action plan for future environmental management. In addition, the
national sewerage master plan, developed as part of the EIP (although not part of the
project) is now being implemented with Bank support.
I  Formerly, the Environmental Protection Department.
2  Formerly, the Ministry of Environment and Land Use.
. .



viii.  Private sector development and poverty reduction objectives objectives. The
SAR did not specifically identify private sector development or poverty reduction as
objectives. Local subsidiaries of international contractors carried out most of the civil
works, employing local labor. The project generated jobs for skilled and unskilled labor.
The Mare Chicose landfill is being run by a private operator under contract with
Government.
ix.   Environmental objectives.  The project achieved most of its environmental
objectives, although with delays. Many industries are taking greater care to avoid
violating environmental standards, due to the information the environmental laboratories
are now generating. The sanitary landfill at Mare Chicose is accepting much of the
island's solid waste, assuring that waste is disposed of in an environmentally sound
manner. Marine parks are established, offering at least nominal protection to their reefs.
And rare enclemic species of plants and animals are being protected in the Black River
Gorges National Park. Other environmental objectives have not yet been achieved,
however. The national physical development plan is being used extensively in town and
country planning, although the Town and Country Planning Act of 1995 has not yet been
promulgated. Plans to encourage polluting industries to locate in an industrial park were
abandoned early in the project.
x.    Financial objectives. Financial objectives were substantially achieved. The
Government and cofinanciers met their commitments fully. As for cost recovery, the
water quality laboratory is collecting fees from industries for sampling and data analysis.
However, plans to collect entrance fees or airport taxes, envisaged as sources of revenue
for the Black River Gorges National Park, have not been instituted. (The SAR does not
provide cost recovery plans for other components of the project.) Despite the limited use
of cost recovery mechanisms, the Government is fully committed to the project and is
very likely to provide sufficient budgetary resources to maintain and operate the
investments. Project costs for most activities did not exceed SAR estimates.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
iv.   Mauritius intends to implement a new environmental investment program as a
follow-on activity to the project which has just closed. The NEAP2, financed under the
project, is providing the analytical basis for the next program. Among other priorities,
this report identifies solid waste management as an urgent need. With the assistance of
the Bank, the Government is now preparing a future solid waste management program.
A Japanese PHRD is financing preparatory studies for the program, and discussions with
donors are underway about contributions they may make. A solid waste operation would
build upon the implementation experience of the Mare Chicose landfill component of the
project, which forms an integral part of an overall solid waste management strategy. A
solid waste program would be prepared in the same way as the environmental sewerage
and sanitation program was prepared and cofinanced by the Bank.3
3  The Environmental Sewerage and Sanitation Project was approved by the Board February 12, 1998.
111



v.    Key lessons learned from the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project
are:
(a)   To facilitate implementation, projects should not be too complex or
involve too many different agencies and activities. This is especially true
when the agency responsible for overall project coordination is newly
created and lacking capacity.
(b)   A full-time project coordinator is needed to implement complex projects
involving many agencies, donors and activities.
(c)   For complex projects involving many agencies, regular meetings of a
ministerial level body, such as the National Environment Commission
chaired by the Prime Minister, demonstrates Government commitment to
environmental protection and the project. This encourages executing
agencies to devote resources to executing the project and helps resolve
intersectoral conflicts.
(d)   Regular monthly meetings chaired by the agency responsible for project
coordination improves communications and helps in quickly identifying
problems and finding solutions.
(e)   Project implementation benefits from the use of action plans, with detailed
timetables and specification of who is responsible for what. The use of
such action plans helps reveal problems quickly so that solutions can be
found. It also improves accountability.
(f)    All preparatory activities (such as detailed designs for a landfill) should be
completed prior to signing the legal agreement. This allows the Bank and
Borrower to better specify what the investment requirements will be. It
also allows faster disbursement loan proceeds and therefore reduces the
financial costs of borrowing.
(g)   Individual project components should not be overly designed, but should
match the technical capabilities of countries which are implementing
them.
(h)   Operations and maintenance requirements should be estimated and sources
of financing identified prior to undertaking investments, particularly for
activities which will require substantial funds for these purposes.
(i)    The participatory and open process of decision-making adopted in the
project helps prevent corruption within government, and strengthens
democratic institutions overall.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3277-MAS)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
1.    Mauritius consists of a group of islands in the Indian Ocean with a total land area
of 2,045 square kilometers. The main island, Mauritius has a land area of 1,865 square
kilometers and a population of 1.1 million growing at a rate of 1 percent a year.
Rodrigues, 600 kilometers to the east, has a land area of 108 square kilometers and a
population of about 38,000. The country also has two dependencies, St. Brandon and
Agalega. Mauritius is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, with a
density of about 590 people per square kilometer. By comparison, the Netherlands has a
population density of about 400 people per square kilometer.
2.    Mauritius became independent in 1968 and has since been a parliamentary
democracy. During the 25 years since independence the country has evolved from a low-
income, agriculture-based economy with a 1970 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per
capita of about US$700 to a middle-income diversified economy with a GDP per capita
of about US$3,500 in 1997. During 1986-96, Mauritius's real GDP grew at an average
annual rate of 5.6 percent, while exports grew at a rate of 6.4 percent in real terms. The
proportion of the population living below the poverty line has fallen from over the past
15 years froni 20 percent to 5 percent, while the distribution of household income became
more even. Mauritius' standards of nutrition, health care, and general education exceed
those of most neighboring countries and are comparable to other middle-income
countries.
3.    Major economic activities.  Sugar occupies over 85 percent of Mauritius'
agricultural land and 45 percent of its total land area. In 1996 sugar contributed about 8
percent of GDP and 29 percent of export earnings, down from its contribution of 20
percent of GDP and over half of export earnings in the 1970s. The government is now
encouraging the diversification of agriculture into flowers, vegetables and fruits.
4.    Manufacturing accounted for about 24 percent of GDP in 1996. An export
processing zone created in 1976 contributed about half of manufacturing value-added and
about 48 percent of gross export earnings. Mauritius has become one of the world's
largest exporters of textiles, which make up about 85 percent of output of the export
processing zone.
5.    Tourism is Mauritius' third major source of income. Tourism expanded from less
than 1 percent of GDP and less than 3 percent of foreign earnings in the 1970s, to about 5



percent and 25 percent, respectively, in 1996.  Promoted as a quality destination,
Mauritius attracted 540,000 visitors in 1997, up from 290,000 in 1990. About 27 percent
come from France, 15 percent of tourists from Reunion, 10 percent from South Africa
and most of the remainder from European countries other than France. Mauritius is
strengthening its capacity by investing in small and medium sized hotels, and developing
support services such as an aquarium, amusement parks, diving centers, and inland
ecotourism facilities.
6.    Mauritius has begun to develop offshore banking and regional trade as new
sources of growth by establishing an Offshore Banking Center (1988) and a freeport
(1992). In June 1998 nine banks, and 7,300 offshore companies were operating in the
offshore center, compared to 700 in 1993.
7.    Environment. Mauritius' economic growth and quality of life rely critically on
the quality of its environment. The island is small, densely populated and highly
urbanized (40 percent of citizens live in cities), so sound land use planning is essential to
ensure that land resources are used in the best possible way and that people are not
exposed unnecessarily to environmental hazards. Cities, agriculture (most of which is
irrigated) and the sugar processing and textile industries all draw heavily on surface and
groundwater resources. All too frequently, they discharge their wastes into rivers and the
ocean without treatment, threatening downstream users, and damaging coastal and marine
ecosystems. Of all industries in Mauritius, tourism is the most dependent on a clean
environment. Visitors come to the island to enjoy its beautiful clean beaches, and to fish,
dive and engage in other water sports. Mauritius is an expensive destination, and its
affluent visitors will go elsewhere if environmental quality declines. Mauritius is also
home to many unique bird and plant species, such as the endangered pink pigeon, the
Mauritius kestrel and the Mauritius ring-necked parakeet, and the magnificent Mauritian
ebony, one of the world's darkest woods. Small, uninhabited islands in the group provide
habitat for two species of endemic snakes and the endemic fruit bat, as well as endemic
flora and birds. Conservation of the islands' remaining endemic flora and fauna is a
valuable contribution to the world's environmental community and a gift to future
generations of Mauritians.
8.    Bank assistance in the environmental sector in Mauritius began with the
development of the 1988 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).4 The NEAP -
one of the first to be developed for any country in the world - sought to identify the
major environmental issues facing the country and recommended a short-term and
medium-term plan of action for ensuring sustainable development. The report, approved
by the Cabinet, provided the basis of the basis of the Environmental Investment Program,
of which the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project is a part.
9.    Bank involvement in the sector was pivotal in assisting Mauritius to fully
integrate environmental issues into its development agenda: prior to the 1988 NEAP
4   Issued to the Board in November 1988 as Grey Cover Report 7264-MAS, titled "Economic Development with
Environmental Management: Strategies for Mauritius."
2



environmental concerns were virtually nonexistent in the Bank's dialogue with the
Government, but they are now very significant. Further, the country is now a leader in
the region on environmental matters and is assisting its neighbors build capacity so that
they too can better manage their environments.
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
10.   The objectives of the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project, as
stated in the staff appraisal report (SAR), were to put into place the policy and
institutional arrangements necessary to have physical planning, land use control,
infrastructure investment and environmental protection managed in a coordinated and
rational way. The project was also intended to enable the Government take immediate
remedial measures to reverse the trend of environmental degradation and to develop a
system of environmental monitoring and analysis for setting environmental standards and
assessing the viability and cost-effectiveness of future investments. The project was part
of the larger Environmental Investment Program (EIP), with an estimated total cost of
US$65 million (1989 dollars). The Bank was one of several major supporters of the
overall program.
11.   To achieve its objectives, the project comprised the following seven components:
(a)   Preparation of a national physical development plan to (a) create and
update a spatial information system for public investment programs, and
(b) define a national framework to serve as a basis for the formulation of
detailed zoning policies, and development and environmental control
criteria needed for effective monitoring at local levels.
(b)   Establishment of environmental laboratories to enable the country to
generate information on air and water quality, pollution control practices
of industrial, agricultural and commercial operators, and environmental
hazards in or near the workplace. The data generated would serve as an
important input into policy formulation, monitoring and enforcement.
(c)   Site selection and design for an industrial park to house factories with
special water and wastewater treatment needs. The site would provide
adequate water supplies and facilities and expertise for the safe handling
and disposal of both liquid and solid wastes.
(d)   National solid waste management plan to provide for environmentally
safe disposal of solid and toxic wastes. The component would include the
design and construction of a new sanitary landfill, and rehabilitation and
management of existing dumps.
(e)   Research on integrated pest management comprising development of
botanical insecticides, use of behavior modifying chemicals, integrated
3



control of tomato pests, integrated management of plutella xyostella, and
use of ultra low volume and electrostatic equipment.
(f)   Marine conservation to establish marine parks and a marine conservation
program, including a management plan for marine resources and a
monitoring program to assess changes in marine resources over time;
(g)   Creation of the Black River Gorges National Park as an area of natural
and international importance for conservation of endangered species,
many found only on the island of Mauritius.
12.  In 1997 the Borrower and the Bank agreed to include two additional activities
consistent with project objectives: (a) the construction of one or two waste transfer
stations to service the new landfill at Mare Chicose, and (b) consultancy services to assist
with the preparation of the national environmental strategies (NEAP2) and environmental
investment program for the next decade.
13.   Evaluation of objectives. The objectives of the project were fully consistent with
the government's environmental strategy as laid out in the Mauritius National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), approved by the Cabinet in 1988. This NEAP -
one of the first to be developed anywhere in the world - was formulated to ensure the
sustainability of the country's rapid economic development, enhance the long-term well-
being and quality of life of its citizens, and protect its unique natural heritage. It
identified the major environmental issues facing the country and recommended a short-
term and medium-term plan of action for the environment, involving institutional
reforms, policy measures and specific priority investments.  The Environmental
Monitoring and Development Project was undertaken to implement the recommendations
of the report. The objectives were appropriate and timely for Mauritius. Improving
environmental performance is vital for Mauritius, considering its fast growing economy,
its reliance on beach tourism and its high population density. Paying more attention to
environment is also appropriate for a middle-income country whose people are
demanding - and are willing to pay for - higher environmental quality.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   The Environmental Monitoring and Development Project merits a satisfactory
rating. Bank's and Borrower's performance also merit satisfactory ratings. All project
objectives were met, although with delays in the implementation of the environmental
laboratories component, the national solid waste management plan component, and the
national park component. The project required two, one-year extensions of the loan
closing date.
Physical objectives
14.   The project achieved most of its physical objectives, although with delays. Plans
to construct the industrial park were dropped after detailed feasibility studies showed that
4



the park would not be economical.
15.   For the environmental laboratories component, civil works planned in the SAR
were fully completed. A new building in Reduit housing the national environmental
laboratory (formerly, central environmental laboratory), health environmental laboratory,
and agriculture quality environment laboratory was completed in March 1997. The
laboratories became operational June 1997, after being outfitted with furniture and
equipment. This was more than five years later than the date that the SAR anticipated the
laboratories would be fully functioning. The water quality environmental laboratory was
upgraded and supplied with new laboratory instruments within the Central Water
Authority.
16.   Delays occurred for several reasons. It was decided to construct and outfit a new
building, rather than upgrade existing laboratories. This change was made to allow
Government to accommodate most of its laboratories in a single building, and thereby
manage the handling of chemicals and laboratory wastes more safely and efficiently. (In
addition to three laboratories financed by the project, the building houses the police
forensic laboratory and the wastewater laboratory). This decision also supported the
Government's plan to decentralize its administrative buildings away from Port Louis to
relieve traffic congestion in the capital city. Time was required to draft architectural
plans, and prepare and float tender documents.  There were problems initiating
construction of the building.  Tendering for the building was made particularly
complicated because only part of the building would be occupied by the laboratories,
with the remainder occupied by other tenants.5 Thus, to comply with Bank rules, two
separate tenders were needed before construction could begin - one comprising the
floors in the building to be occupied by the laboratories, and the other covering the
remaining floors. There were also problems with monitoring, supervision of the Ministry
of Works, and coordination among architects and subcontractors involved in the
construction of the building.
17.   For the solid waste management component, construction of a sanitary landfill in
Mare Chicose was completed in January 1997, three months later than expected. The
facility became operational in November 1997. Construction of a proposed sanitary
landfill at Mare D'Australia was not completed, due to the opposition of some
landowners who did not want to exchange their land.
18.   Two transfer stations proposed to be financed under the loan (Solferino and
Bramsthan) were not constructed, due to lack of coordination and problems with
decision-making between the Ministry of Environment and Quality of Life (coordinating
agency) and the Ministry of Local Government (implementing agency for the
component).6 Further, problems were encountered in acquiring land for the Bramsthan
5  The government of Mauritius discourages the construction of low-rise buildings because of the acute land
shortage on the island.
6  The two ministries merged in 1997.
5



transfer station. Construction of the transfer stations were not part of the original project
defined in the SAR, but were proposed in 1996.
19.   Regarding the national park component, upgrading of access roads, construction
of field research stations, and redevelopment of a viewpoint in the Black River Gorges
National Park were completed by June 1997. This was two years later than projected in
the SAR. The visitor center will be completed in autumn 1998. more than one year after
the component closed.
20.   There were several reasons for the delays. Acquisition of private lands proceeded
slowly.  The Ministry of Works, which was responsible for preparing the tender
documents and finalizing contracts, took much longer than expected to perform these
tasks. A shortage of staff among Forestry Service surveyors delayed completion of
survey work. The National Parks and Conservation Service, the executing agency for the
national park component, asked the Ministry of Housing, Lands and Town and Country
Planning to assign the job to their surveyor team, but without success. The work was
eventually contracted out to private sector surveyor, under authorization of the Ministry
of Housing, Lands and Town and Country Planning.
Institutional development objectives
21.   The project substantially achieved its institutional development objectives. Under
the project, the newly created the Department of Environment7 (DOE) now within the
Ministry of Local Government and Environment8 became a fully functioning institution.
This is a major achievement, and it did not come easily. During the early years of the
project, some of the more established governmental ministries and agencies resisted the
attempts of the DOE to obtain information and to oversee and coordinate environmental
activities. They sometimes viewed the DOE as representing another layer of
bureaucracy, presenting an obstacle to speedy and smooth implementation of project
components. In its early days, the DOE was not always effective at communicating and
coordinating with other ministries and agencies, reinforcing this negative view. Now,
however, the work of the DOE is largely accepted, and environmental issues are properly
viewed as cutting across all sectors. The DOE has also been effective in implementing
the use of environmental impact assessments and licensing procedures for new
investments.   Further, by insisting on transparency, accountability, and public
participation, the National Environment Commission and DOE have also strengthened
democratic decision-making processes in the country.
22.   Ministries and agencies executing various components of the project were also
strengthened.  However, the newly created ministerial-level National Environment
Commission (NEC) chaired by the Prime Minister has not met since summer 1995. This
intersectoral body was established to guide environmental policy, laws and standards;
oversee and coordinate government actions, review progress of project implementation,
7  Formerly, the Environmental Protection Department.
8  Fornerly, the Ministry of Environment and Land Use.
6



and resolve intersectoral issues. It helped demonstrate government commitment to the
environment and to resolve intersectoral issues. Unfortunately, it is no longer fulfilling
the leadership role envisaged in the SAR. More regular meetings of this body could have
facilitated project execution and reduced delays. The Environmental Coordination
Committee (ECC) - comprised of representatives of all ministries, executing agencies
and the liaison office - has assumed some of the responsibilities of the NEC but has not
been as effective in carrying them out. This is primarily because the ECC lacks the
stature of NEC, with meetings attended mainly by administrators rather than senior
decision-makers. It is expected that this body will again become active once the planned
second environmental program gets underway.
23.  Institution building activities under the national laboratories component were
largely achieved, although with delays. All four laboratories benefited from training
programs in the theory of environmental monitoring, and use and maintenance of
specialized equipment. Training for personnel of the agriculture quality laboratory, water
quality laboratory, and national environmental laboratory was completed by June 1997.
Training for the Health Quality laboratory did not start until March 1998 and was not
completed until August 1998, two months after the project closed.
24.   The marine conservation component benefited from technical assistance and
training provided by the Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA), which
took over from the International Ocean Development Center after the latter institution
was dissolved by the Canadian Government. CIDA provided training on the use of
geographic information systems for assessing and tracking lagoonal health, data
management and analysis, and establishment of marine parks. The national park
component benefited from the assistance of a foreign expert in the establishment and
operation of national parks and overseas training of key personnel.
25.  Integrated pesticide management research capacities in Mauritius were
strengthened through training in India and Malaysia. Farmers are being trained to use
new approaches discovered during the project and further research is underway drawing
on capacity built under the project.
Sector policy objectives
26.   Project objectives were largely attained. The national physical development plan
was completed, providing a framework for future land use planning. The environmental
laboratories are generating data which are providing good information about the state of
the environment and the sources and nature of pollution, and are being used in policy
formulation and land use planning. Data of the water quality laboratory is successfully
being used to enforce discharge standards, a major step in overall enforcement of
environmental regulations. The Mare Chicose sanitary landfill is fully operational, and is
a key element of a solid waste management strategy for the country. Blue Bay and
Balaclava marine parks have been officially proclaimed. The Black River Gorges
National Park has been formally established and is operational, and wildlife protection
laws were passed. And the environmental strategies for the next decade, expected to be
7



completed in spring 1999, will provide Mauritius with a long-term vision, strategy and
action plan for future enviromnental management. In addition, the national sewerage
master plan, developed as part of the EIP (although not part of the project) is now being
implemented with Bank support. The objective of establishing an industrial park was not
achieved, however. A detailed feasibility study funded under the project showed that few
industries would be willing to locate in the park without substantial subsidies.
Private sector development and poverty reduction objectives
27.   The SAR did not specifically identify private sector development or poverty
reduction as objectives. Local offices of international firms carried out most of the civil
works, employing local labor. The project generated jobs for skilled and unskilled labor.
The Mare Chicose landfill is being run by a private operator under contract with
Government.
Environmental objectives
28.   The project achieved most of its environmental objectives, although with delays.
Many industries are taking much more care than in the past to avoid violating
environmental standards. This is directly due to the information the environmental
laboratories are now generating regarding environmental performance of industry. The
sanitary landfill at Mare Chicose is accepting much of the island's solid waste, assuring
that waste is disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Marine parks are
established, offering at least nominal protection to their reefs. Rare endemic species of
plants and animals are being protected in the Black River Gorges National Park, which is
also proving a popular recreational destination for Mauritians and tourists. And farmers
are being trained to use biological techniques rather than chemicals to control some pests.
Although there are no concrete data yet, all these measures are almost certainly having a
positive impact on the environment and the quality of life for the country's citizens.
Other environmental objectives have not yet been achieved, however. The national
physical development plan has not yet been translated into legislation, so its influence on
land use planning is still limited. Actions are currently underway to create the necessary
legal and institutional frameworks to implement the plan. Plans to encourage polluting
industries to locate in an industrial park were abandoned early in the project.
Financial objectives
29.   Financial objectives were substantially achieved. The Government contributed
more than its anticipated share of project costs in a timely manner. The Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) fulfilled the commitments of the International
Centre for Ocean Development in support of the marine conservation component. The
Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) also provided assistance for the marine
conservation component.
30.   As for cost recovery, the water quality laboratory is collecting fees from
industries and wastewater treatment plants to carry out sampling and data analysis.
8



However, plans to collect entrance fees or airport taxes, envisaged as sources of revenue
for the Black River Gorges National Park, have not been instituted. (The SAR does not
discuss cost recovery for other components of the project, a shortcoming). Requirements
for operations and maintenance and sources of funds for these purposes should be
specified during project preparations, so that future demands on the Government's budget
to maintain investments are clear from the beginning. Despite this oversight, the
Government is fully committed to the project and is very likely to provide sufficient
budgetary resources to maintain and operate its investments.
31.   Project costs for most activities did not exceed SAR estimates. Those that did
(training of laboratory staff and national park access roads) were easily covered through
savings on other activities. The final disbursement took place on October 21, 1998. At
project closing cumulative loan disbursements reached US$10.42 million.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
32.   Project implementation proceeded very slowly during its first 4-5 years (the loan
was initially scheduled to be closed June 30, 1996, but was actually closed June 30,
1998). There are several reasons for slow initial progress. First, the Environmental
Investment Program, of which the project was a part, was too complex and ambitious for
the newly created DOE to execute smoothly, especially given that this body lacked
capacity. The EIP, which comprised more than thirty separate activities and involved
numerous implementing agencies and external donors, would have been difficult for a
well-established environmental agency to manage. Yet, the new DOE had the added
challenge of establishing and building relationships with other government ministries and
agencies. Some of these agencies resisted the early efforts of the DOE to coordinate and
oversee their activities, and problems with coordination and communication hampered
smooth execution of the project in its early years. Unwillingness of executing agencies to
work with the DOE also sometimes resulted in lack of compliance with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, which contributed to delays.
33.  Implementation progress improved markedly in early 1996 after the midterm
review, when the Ministries of Planning and Finance started requiring all executing
agencies to submit monthly progress reports to the DOE, which were discussed at regular
monthly meetings. Further, the DOE started developing action plans with detailed
timetables and delineation of responsibilities, which were reviewed and approved by the
Bank during its supervision missions. The Director of Audit also played an important
role by issui]ng annual reports with detailed assessments of implementation progress and
recommendations for future actions. All these steps helped reveal where difficulties were
being encountered, allowing them to be addressed and resolved quickly.
34.   Second, Mauritius had no previous experience with the technical requirements of
several of the major undertakings in the project. For example, the country had no
previous experience with environmental monitoring, so accepted the Bank's
specifications for a monitoring program. This technically sophisticated program required
skills not generally available in Mauritius, which led to long delays in recruiting scientists
9



and technical officers. Similarly, the Mare Chicose dump was the first sanitary landfill to
be built and operated in the country. This led to difficulties specifying what was needed
in terms of reference and tender documents, and problems with guiding and supervising
the work of contractors. The SAR paid too little attention to these capacity constraints,
and so estimated unrealistic timetables for implementing these components.
34.   Third, investment requirements for some major works were not fully known prior
to signing the legal agreement. This is because designwork had been included as part of
the project rather than as part of the preparatory activities. Much of this design work
could have been completed before the signing of the legal agreement, facilitating
implementation and reducing the financial costs of costs of borrowing.
35.   Fourth, the program lacked a full-time program coordinator. DOE staff were
given program execution responsibilities in addition to their other duties. Following the
midterm review, a full-time program coordinator was appointed, which greatly facilitated
implementation.
E.    Project Sustainability
36.   Financial sustainability. The Government is committed to supporting the project,
and will very likely provide adequate resources to ensure the operation and maintenance
of investments made under the project. The Black River Gorges National Park has been
successful in attracting financial support from international conservation for species
conservation efforts organizations (including the Global Environment Fund administered
by the United Nations). The water quality laboratory does raise some revenues by
charging industries to monitor their discharges.
37.   Institutional sustainability. The Department of Environment is now established
as a key agency within the Government, with an important role to play in protecting and
managing the environment.  The DOE is now coordinating the formulation of the
environmental action plan and the environmental investment program  for the next
decade, which it will be actively involved in implementing. This will further strengthen
the institution. The National Environmental Commission has not been meeting regularly,
however. This institution is important for facilitating interagency communication and
demonstrating government's commitment to environmental issues.  The laboratory
complex is likely to be sustained, although this will depend on the ability of the
laboratories to recruit and retain qualified staff and to fully use, maintain and renew
equipment. The National Parks and Conservation Service is well-established within the
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Cooperatives. It remains understaffed, however.
38.   Benefits sustainability. Permanent improvement in environmental conditions in
Mauritius are very likely due to activities carried out under the project. The Department
of Environment is performing well in its role of guiding environmental policy and
overseeing and coordinating environmental activities of ministries and agencies. The
environmental laboratories are generating key information on the state of the
environment, on sources and nature of pollution, and on impacts of pollution on human
10



health and ecosystems.  These data are critical in developing any environmental
protection and management program.  The laboratories must now concentrate on
publishing annual state of the environment reports, which can provide an indication of the
trends in environmental performance, and developing monitoring and research programs
which focus on the most serious problems. Benefits provided by the Mare Chicose
sanitary landfill are likely to be sustained as long as the landfill remains in operation.
However, this landfill will reach capacity long before originally anticipated because it is
receiving waste intended for a second landfill, which not built because of problems
acquiring land. There is an urgent need to develop plans for future solid waste
management, and the Government has sought Bank assistance in the sector. The
sewerage master plan (developed under the EIP, not the project) is being implemented
with Bank support. The national park administration is successfully maintaining part of
the park terTitory as habitat for endangered species. However, full benefits will not be
attained until regulations protecting wildlife are brought into force. Finally, full benefits
of land use planning resulting from the national physical development plan will not be
attained until the Town and Country Act of 1995 is promulgated. Plans are underway to
complete this process in the near future.
F.    Bank Performance
39.   Bank's performance was satisfactory during project identification, preparation
and appraisal. The project was based on the NEAP, carried out with Bank involvement,
which identified the key environmental issues facing Mauritius and the priority policy
measures, institutional arrangements, and investments needed to deal with them. Thus,
the project was well-grounded in solid analysis.
40.   The Bank erred, however, in being too optimistic about the capacity of the
country to undertake certain activities. The proposed environmental laboratory program
was too technically specialized for the skills available in the country, leading to extensive
delays in recruitment of scientific and technical staff. The SAR did note that steep
differentials in salary levels between the private and public sectors would likely hamper
recruitment of qualified staff, and recommended that a salary review be carried out.
Ultimately, skill specifications were lowered to attract more applicants. Finally, the Bank
overestimated the ease with which the new Department of Environment would be able to
coordinate with other ministries and agencies to execute this complex project.
41.   The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. Supervision missions took
place regularly about every six months. This was adequate. Altogether thirteen missions
were carried out once the project became effective. The missions provided substantive
help in identifying and solving problems. The Bank provided valuable advice following
the midtermn review, reorienting the project and recommending that the DOE and
executing agencies adopt action plans with detailed timetables. The Bank also suggested
ways for the DOE to strengthen its coordination function, such as appointing a full-time
project coordinator and conducting monthly meetings with executing agencies to review
implementation progress. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in adapting the project for
Borrower needs. The Bank agreed to finance construction of a sanitary landfill at Mare
11



Chicose originally intended to be locally financed, and it agreed to finance consultancy
services for preparation of the environmental strategies for the next decade. It permitted
two one-year extensions of the closing date to allow completion of works for the national
park and landfill, and of training programs for laboratory staff.
G.   Borrower Performance
42.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during project identification,
preparation and appraisal. The Borrower led preparation of the NEAP, which formed the
basis of the Environmental Investment Program.
43.   Borrower performance during project implementation was generally satisfactory.
In the early years of implementation, the DOE had some difficulties coordinating and
communicating with other executing ministries and agencies. This led to delays in
implementation. In some cases programs were not planned adequately. For example,
laboratory equipment was procured in December 1992 and commissioned by November
1993, long before personnel had been recruited and trained to operate and maintain it.
44.  Implementation progress improved markedly after the midterm  review.
Following the Bank's recommendations, the DOE appointed a full-time project
coordinator and started preparing action plans with detailed timetables and clear
delineation of who was responsible for what. And it started holding monthly progress
meetings and reviewing monthly progress reports submitted by the executing agencies.
45.   Borrower's performance regarding compliance with legal covenants was
satisfactory.  Regarding procurement, the Borrower generally followed acceptable
procurement procedures. However, delays were sometimes incurred because tender
documents had not been prepared according to Bank procedures. Bank financing of the
transfer station planned for Solferino had to be abandoned because tender documents
were changed after the Bank issued its no-objection.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
46.   Project outcome is satisfactory, as most project objectives were attained. Most
physical objectives were attained, except for the construction of the industrial park. Plans
for the industrial park were abandoned when detailed feasibility studies showed that
tenants would not locate there without large Government subsidies.  This is not
considered a failure, but rather a sensible response to new information. The institutional
and policy objectives were also substantially achieved. Although the project was
ambitious and complex, the Borrower and the DOE and the other executing agencies
demonstrated commitment to implement the project. The project made an important
contribution to environmental protection and management in Mauritius.   The
environmental benefits are likely to be sustained and extended in the future.
12



H.   Future Operations
47.   Mauritius intends to implement a new environmental investment program as a
follow-on activity to the project which has just closed. The NEAP2, financed under the
project, is providing the analytical basis for the next program. Among other priorities,
this report identifies solid waste management as an urgent need. With the assistance of
the Bank, the Government is now preparing a future solid waste management program.
A Japanese PHRD is financing preparatory studies for the program, and discussions with
donors are underway about contributions they may make. A solid waste operation would
build upon the implementation experience of the Mare Chicose landfill component of the
project, which forms an integral part of an overall solid waste management strategy. A
solid waste program would be prepared in the same way as the environmental sewerage
and sanitation program was prepared and cofinanced by the Bank.
48.   The Environmental Sewerage and Sanitation Project, which addresses wastewater
pollution in south Port Louis, industrial zones and coastal areas, was approved by the
Board in February 1998 and is expected to become effective in autumn 1998. This project
implements recommendations of studies carried out as part of the EIP.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
49.   Key lessons learned from the Environmental Monitoring and Development
Project are:
(a)   To facilitate implementation, projects should not be too complex or
involve too many different agencies and activities. This is especially true
when the agency responsible for overall project coordination is newly
created and lacking capacity.
(b)   A full-time project coordinator is needed to implement complex projects
involving many agencies, donors and activities.
(c)   For complex projects involving many agencies, regular meetings of a
ministerial level body, such as the National Environment Commission
chaired by the Prime Minister, demonstrates Government commitment to
environmental protection and the project. This encourages executing
agencies to devote resources to executing the project and helps resolve
intersectoral conflicts.
(d)   Regular monthly meetings chaired by the agency responsible for project
coordination improves communications and helps in quickly identifying
problems and finding solutions.
(e)   Project implementation benefits from the use of action plans, with detailed
timetables and specification of who is responsible for what. The use of
13



such action plans helps reveal problems quickly so that solutions can be
found. It also improves accountability.
(f)    All preparatory activities (such as detailed designs for a landfill) should be
completed prior to signing the legal agreement. This allows the Bank and
Borrower to better specify what the investment requirements will be. It
also allows faster disbursement loan proceeds and therefore reduces the
financial costs of borrowing.
(g)   Individual project components should not be overly designed, but should
match the technical capabilities of countries which are implementing
them.
(h)   Operations and maintenance requirements should be estimated and sources
of financing identified prior to undertaking investments, particularly for
activities which will require substantial funds for these purposes.
(i)    The participatory and open process of decision-making adopted in the
project helps prevent corruption within government, and strengthens
democratic institutions overall.
14



Table 1: Sumimary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                X
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives               X
Institutional development         X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty recluction                                                                    X
Gender issues                                                                         x
Other social objectives                                                               X
Environmental objectives           X
Public sector management          X
Private sector development                         X
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                        Highly
satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                              X
Preparation Assistance                                     X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                                                 X
D. Borrower Performance                    Highly
satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                X
Implementation                                             X
Covenant Compliance                                        X
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly                                             Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
x
15



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Grants
Loanlcredit title                             Purpose               Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. Water Supply I                Improve water supply in the Triolet    FY 83          Completed
and Mt. Blanc subsystems and in the
groundwater pumping schemes of
the Mare-aux-Vacoas subsystem.
Following operations
2. Port Development and          Enhance transport and trade            FY 95          Satisfactory
Environmental Protection     competitiveness in the maritime
sector in an environmentally sound
manner
1. Biodiversity Restoration (GEF)  Protect endangered biodiversity of   FY 96            Highly
international importance.                             satisfactory
2. Environmental Sewerage and    Address wastewater pollution in        FY 98         Not applicable
Sanitation                   south Port Louis, industrial zones
and coastal areas.
4. Solid Waste Management        Implement sustainable and              FY 00         Not applicable
environmentally sound solid waste
management system.
16



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                 Date Planned              Date Actual!
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    December 18, 1987
Appraisal                                                                        May 9, 1990
Negotiations                                                                    October 9, 1990
Board Presentation                                                             December 6, 1990
Signing                                                                        February 1t, 1991
Effectiveness                                                                    May 1, 1991
Midterm Review                                        November 1992              June 28, 1994
Project Completion                                   December 31, 1995        December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                           June 30, 1996            June 30, 1998
17



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate           0.18     1.77    5.12     8.66    12.37    12.37    12.37    12.37    12.37
Actual                       0.00     0.06    3.03     3.78     4.71     5.70     9.05    10.19    10.42
Actual as % of estimate       0.0      3.4    59.2    43.6      38.1    46.1      73.2    82.4    84.3
Date of final disbursement   October 21, 1998
18



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SARI         Estimated                         Actual
President's Report
1. Works
Construction:
Environmental laboratories   Four upgraded: National        Four built or substantially
environmental, water quality,  upgraded, and operational.
health quality, agriculture quality.
Sanitary landfill            One in Arsenal.                One in Mare Chicose built, and
operational.
Accommodation works for      Widening of Astoea Bridge.     Accommodation works
landfill                     realignment of approach road,  completed.
drainage works, road resurfacing.
Access roads to national park    Paving and drainage works for  Access roads completed
access roads.
National park view point     I
National park visitor center  I                             Completed after component closed
with local financing.
Captive breeding center      I
Field research stations      2                              2
Procurement schedule:
Environmental laboratories   Completed by June 1992.        Completed June 1997.
Sanitary landfill            Completed by June 1995.        Completed January 1997.
Landfill accommodation works  Completed by June 1995.       Completed March 1997.
Access roads to national park    Completed by June 1995.    Completed June 1997.
National park view point     Completed by June 199S.        Completed June 1997.
National park visitor center  Completed by June 1995.       Completed in September 1998,
after the component closed.
Captive breeding center      Completed by June 1995.        Completed February 1996.
Field research stations      Completed by June 1995.        Completed March 1996.
19



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont.)
Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated                          Actual
SAR/President's Report
2. Studies
National physical development   Completed by June 1993.        Completed in June 1993.
plan
Design of industrial park    Completed by December 1992.       Phase I completed June 1993. No
further action taken.
Design of sanitary landfill  Completed by March 1993.          Completed February 1995.
Integrated pest management   Completed by June 1995.           Completed June 1996.
research
Marine environmental         Completed by June 1995.           CIDA dropped this activity after
management plans                                               taking over from ICOD.
Lagoon health study and      Completed by June 1994.           Completed October 1995.
pollution monitoring
Oceanographic data collection    Completed by June 1993.       Started June 1995, ongoing.
National environmental       Completed by June 1998.           To be completed in spring 1999,
strategies for the next decade                                 after the project closed.
3. Training
National environmental lab   Completed by December 1993.       Completed June 1997.
Water quality lab            Completed by December 1993.       Completed July 1997.
Health quality lab           Completed by December 1993.       Completed August 1998, after the
project closed.
Agriculture quality lab      Completed by December 1993.       Completed June 1997.
Integrated pest management   Completed by June 1995.           Completed June 1995.
Marine conservation          Completed by June 1995.           Completed August 1997.
Black River Gorges National  Completed by June 1995.           Completed June 1995.
Park
4. Reports
Audit                        Annually.                         Transmitted each year on time.
Progress reports             Quarterly.                        Transmitted quarterly on time.
5. Other indicators
Establish Black River Gorges    Completed by December 31, 1991.    Wildlife and National Parks Act
National Park                                                  proclaimed March 1, 1994.
Establish marine parks       Completed.                        Marine Parks Act proclaimed
October 1997.
20



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Purpose as Defined at          Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. National physical       Create an overall plan for national    Completed.  Study recommended
development plan        and local development of industrial,            improved land use
agricultural, commercial and public             practices. The plan is
lands.                                          not yet being fully
implemented, but
legislation has been
prepared to do so.
2. Design of industrial park   Select a site for polluting industries   Completed.  Study showed that it
to locate. Produce detailed designs             would not be feasible to
for the site and provision of                   proceed with the park
infrastructure.                                 without a subsidy from
Government.
3. Design of sanitary landfill  Provide detailed designs of a  Completed.   Landfill was
sanitary landfill.                              constructed and is fully
operational.
4. Integrated pest         Identify nonchemical pest control  Completed.    Research
management research     measures to replace environmentally             recommendations are
harmful pesticide use.                          being implemented.
5. Marine environment      Classify marine environment      CIDA dropped  CIDA funded mapping
management plans        elements according to a scheme for   this activity  of the coastal zones for
sustainable exploitation. Implement  after taking  preparation of the
appropriate enforcement          over the       management plans.
mechanisms to regulate use of area.   component
from ICOD.
6. Lagoon health study and   Determine the long-term impact of    Completed.  Baseline data collected.
pollution monitoring    pollutants and other factors                    Marine parks delineated
(predators, cyclones, fishing) on the           and formally
lagoon and reef. The information                established.
would be used in the development of
the marine environment master plan.
7. Oceanographiic data     Collect data on waves, tides and  Completed.     Baseline data collected.
collection             currents needed to develop the
marine environment management
plans and to predict the residence
time and movement of pollutants in
the coastal zone.
8. National environmental    Update national environmental  Draft           Priorities identified and
strategies for the next  action plan and formulate       completed      environmental
decade                  environmental investment program    autumn 1998.   investment program
for the next decade.             Final report    formulated.
expected
spring 1999.
21



Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Item                                   Local    Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs               Costs     Costs
1.  National physical development plan   0.24       1.47      1.71     0.22       1.60     1.82
2.  Environmental laboratories            0.53      4.31      4.84      5.20      1.10     6.30
3.  Industrial park: design and          0.07      0.60       0.67     0.30       0.60     0.90
engineering
4.  Solid waste management plan:
*  Design of sanitary landfill site     0.02      0.23      0.25
*  Implementation of landfill           1.58      3.43      5.01
*  Rehabilitation of present dumps      0.20      0.30      0.50
Subtotalfor solid waste management         1.8      3.96      5.76      3.85      4.10     7.95
5.  Integrated pest management           0.04       0.21      0.25      0.04      0.05     0.09
6.  Marine conservation                  0.29       0.86      1.15      0.12      0.43     0.55
7.  Black River Gorges National Park      0.67      1.75      2.42      3.10      1.00     4.10
8   National environmental strategies                                   0.03      0.20     0.23
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          3.64     13.16     16.80
Contingencies:
*  Physical                             0.13      0.49      0.63
*  Price                                0.68      2.43      3.10
Subtotalfor contingencies                 0.81      2.92      3.73
TOTAL FINANCING                          4.45      16.08     20.53     12.87      9.08    21.95
22



Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)          Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Source                     Local Costs   Foreign        Total     Local Costs   Foreign     Total
Costs                                Costs
IBRD                             0.00        12.37       12.37         4.57       5.88      10.45
Canadian International           0.00         0.40        0.40         0.00       0.40       0.40
Development Agency (in
replacement of ICOD)
Government of Mauritius          4.45         3.31        7.76          8.30      2.80      11.10
TOTAL                            4.45        16.08      20.53          12.87      9.08      21.95
23



Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
This table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the calculation of a re-estimated
economic rate of retum.
The benefits estimated in the SAR were calculated for the Environmental Investment Program as a
whole, not for the project. It was assumed that because the project comprised core elements of the
EIP, benefits attributed to the EIP could also be attributed to the project.
Quantified Benefits
Estimated IRR      IRR at Completion           NPV
Contribution of growth from tourism, health  Greater than 15    Greater than 15
costs avoided, Savings from more efficient    percent               percent
allocation of infrastructure, willingness to
pay to visit the national and marine parks
Unquantified Benefits
Benefits IdenIfied in the SAR                             Actual Benefits
Cost savings in agriculture resulting reduced use of  Negligible.
pesticides and improved marketing of food.
Reduced risk of serious toxic waste incident, more  Substantial. The project implemented Mauritius' first
effective waste treatment and disposal.            sanitary landfill, including facilities for disposal of toxic
wastes.
Increase in fish and shellfish harvest from the lagoon.    Beneficial long-term impact likely.
Existence values of preserved biodiversity.        Substantial. National park is attracting grant finance from
conservation organizations overseas, including the Global
Environment Fund administered by the United Nations.
Option value of potentially valuable products from  Substantial. National park is attracting grant finance from
biodiversity.                                      conservation organizations overseas, including the Global
Environment Fund administered by the United Nations.
24



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Present         Original                  Description of                  Comments
type      status   fulfillment date               covenant
LA          3.0:3       10         C         12/31/92    Completion of national physical development
plan
LA      4.01(b)(ii)      I         C         Annually    Audit reports to be submitted to Bank no later
than March 31
LA      Schedule 5,     10         C           N/A       Memorandum of Agreement detailing
para. 4                                          respective responsibilities of laboratories
LA      Schedule5,      10         C          6/30/91    Acquisition of land for the National
para. 6                                          Environmental Laboratory
LA      Schedule 5.     5          C           N/A       Establishment of a Technical Steering
para. 9                                          Committee to manage the integrated pest
management studies
LA      Schedule5,      10         C         12/31/91    Establishment of the Black River Gorges    Wildlife and
para. 18                                         National Park                              National Parks Act
proclaimed 3/1/94
LA      Schedule5,      10         C         6/30/91     Establishment of the Parks Advisory Board
para. 19
LA      Schedule 1,     3          C           N/A       Completion of cofinancing arrangements with  Memorandum of
para. 3(c)                                       CIDA (formerly ICOD)                       understanding
signed 3/8/95
N/A means not applicable
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/auidits                                 8. =  Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. =  Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
25



Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                             Planned                      Actual
Weeks          US$          Weeks       US$ ('000)
Preparation to Appraisal                                                   66.8          133.0
Appraisal-Negotiations                                                       15           31.0
Negotiations through Board Approval                                         4.8           11.0
Supervision                                    78.5         235.5          95.6         250.8
Completion                                       10          15.9            10           15.9
TOTAL                                                                      192.2         441.7
26



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year        Number of      Days in      Specialized Staff     Implementation       Development
Persons       Field'      Skills Represented        Status            Objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision I           April 1991                   2                 FA, DIS                       I
Supervision 2           May 1992                     2          9.0   FA. ME                                            2
Supervision 3           November 1992                3         14.0   FA. ME. PS                    2                   2
Supervision 4           June 1993                    3         11.0   FA. ME. PS                    2                   2
Supervision 5           December 1993                3         10.0   ME, RA, PS                    2                   2
Supervision 6           July 1994                    4          9.0   FA, ME. PS, RA                S                   S
Supervision 7           January 1995                 3         10.0   FA, ME. RA                    S                   S
Supervision 8           July 1995                    3          8.0   FA, ME, RA                    U                   S
Supervision 9           January 1996                 2          8.0   FA, IS                        S                   S
Supervision 10          July 1996                    2         13.0   FA. IS                        S                   S
Supervision 11          February 1997                2         10.0   FA, IS                        S                   S
Supervision 12          October 1997                 3          6.0   FA. IS. MS                    S                   S
Supervision 13          March 1998                   2          7.0   TTL, FA                       S                   S
Completion              June 1998                     I         6.0   TTL, EC
1/  Average number of days per person
a/ Key to Specialization                                                                  b/ Key to Status
FA    = Financial Analyst                    ME  =  Municipal Engineer                    I     = Problem  Free
DIS   = Disbursernent Officer                MS  =  Municipal Specialist                  2     = Moderate problems
EC    = Environmental Consultant             PS   =  Procurement Specialist               3     = Major Problems
IS     = Infrastructure Specialist           RA   =  Research Assistant                   HS   = Highly Satisfactory
S     = Satisfactory
U     = Unsatisfactory
N/A  = Not applicable
27






REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Ministry of Environment, Human Resource Development, & Employment
Department of Environment
1.   Introduction
The rapid industrialisation in the late 80's and change in lifestyle of the Mauritian accelerated
environmental degradation in Mauritius. The Government's growing concern for a healthy and
sustainable environment, resulted in the organisation of an International forum in Environmental
Protection and Management in 1988 with the participation of all stakeholders. The World Bank
provided it's full support and this resulted in the preparation of the First National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP).
The NEAP was eventually translated into an Environmental Investment Programme (EIP 1)
which comprised of 32 projects under six sectors viz:
(I)   Institutional strengthening
(II)   Land Management and Tourism
(III)  Industry, Sewerage and Waste Disposal
(IV)  Agriculture
(V)   Marine Conservation
(VI)  Terrestrial Conservation
Further to a donor's meeting held in 1989, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), (hereinafter referred to as the Bank) agreed to fund seven components
under the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project (Loan 3277-MAS) to the tune of
US$12.37 million with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) as one of the
co-financiers. The other components under the EIP 1 were funded by the following agencies:
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Asian Development Bank (ADB), Asian
Development Fund (ADF), Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KFW), Nordic Investment Bank
29



(NIB), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), European Union (EU) and the Government of Mauritius (GOM).
2.    Assessment of project design
The project comprised of the following seven components:
(a)   Preparation of a national physical development plan (NPDP), to:
(i) Create and update a spatial information system for public investments
program
(ii) define a national framework to serve as a basis for the formulation of
detailed zoning policies and development and environmental control criteria
for effective monitoring at local levels.
(b)   Establishment of environmental laboratories to enable the country to generate
information on air and water quality, pollution control practices of industrial,
agricultural and commercial operators, and environmental hazards in or near the
work place. The data generated would serve as an important input into policy
formulation, monitoring and enforcement.
(c)   Site selection and design for an industrial park to house factories with relatively
high water consumption and wastewater treatment needs. The site would provide
adequate water supplies and facilities and expertise for the safe handling and
disposal of both liquid and solid wastes.
(d)   National solid waste management plan to provide for environmentally safe
disposal of solid and toxic wastes. The component would include the design and
construction of a new sanitary landfill, and rehabilitation and management of
existing dumping grounds.
(e)   Research on integrated pest management comprising development of botanical
insecticides, use of behaviour modifying chemicals, integrated control of tomato
pests, integrated management of Plutella Xylostella, and use of ultra low volume
and electrostatic equipment.
(f)   Marine conservation to establish marine parks and a marine conservation
program, including a management plan for marine resources and a monitoring
program to assess changes in marine resources over time;
(g)   Creation of the Black River Gorges National Park (BRGNP) as an area of
natural and international importance for conservation of endangered species, most
of which are found only on the Island of Mauritius.
30



Additional itemns. In 1997, the Government of Mauritius in conjunction with the Bank
introduced two additional components, namely:
(a)   the construction of two transfer stations; and
(b)   the provision of consultancy services to assist with the preparation of the second
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP 2) and its supporting EIP 2 for the
next decade.
3.    Evaluation of the project design
The objectives of the components were fully in line with the GOM policy for a
sustainable resources utilisation, management and environmental protection and
Conservation. The NEAP I identified the major environmental issues which Mauritius
faced and part of the recommendations contained therein were implemented under the
Environmental Development and Monitoring project. The latter was very appropriate
both in terms of objectives and timing. Improving the environmental quality then proved
to be vital.
4.   Implementation and operation experience
The projects identified were implemented by various ministries/agencies. Their
objectives were achieved through some components such as implementation of the
national solid waste management plan, construction of the BRGNP access road, training
programs for laboratories personnel. However, these required two successive one year
extension of time from the scheduled project closing date.
The environmental laboratories are carrying out tests and analysis. The data generated
are used in policy formulation, monitoring and enforcement.
The sanitary landfill constructed at Mare Chicose is now operational, though the present
waste intake is well below the designed optimum tonnage (presently receiving 200 tons
out of 600). This amount would however increase with the imminent closure of the
dumping grounds
Two marine parks and one terrestrial national park have been proclaimed, and the
management plans are currently being prepared.
5.    Achievement of objectives
On the overall, the project merits satisfactory rating.
(a)   Physical objectives
All the components achieved their physical objectives except for the Industrial
park. No further action was taken on this component as a detailed feasibility
31



study showed that the park is presently not economically viable.
Setting up of environmental laboratories
A new three story building was constructed (4500 m2/floor). It was completed in
March 1997. This building (National Laboratories Complex) houses four labs,
namely, National Environmental Laboratory, Health Quality Laboratory,
Wastewater Laboratory and Forensic Science Laboratory.  The Agricultural
Quality Laboratory is found in a separate building at Reduit and the Water
Quality Laboratory is located in the Central Water Authority (CWA) building at
St. Paul.
Solid waste management
A sanitary landfill has been constructed at Mare Chicose (January 1997) and
became operational in November 1997.
Marine conservation
Two marine parks have been proclaimed.
Black River Gorges National Park
Various sub components such as upgrading of access road, construction of two
field research stations, upgrading of Gorges View Point have been completed. A
visitor's centre is presently being constructed within the BRGN Park.
(b)   Institutional strengthening objectives
The project adequately achieved its institutional development objectives.
The environmental laboratories personnel benefited from training programmes in
environmental monitoring and in the use/maintenance of specialised equipment.
Prior to the training programmes, the number of staff in the laboratories were also
increased.
The marine conservation component benefited from technical assistance and
training provided by CIDA on the use of geographic information system,
assessing lagoon health, data management and analysis, and establishment of
marine parks.
The national parks component benefited from the know-how of a foreign expert
in the establishment and making operational the park inclusive of providing of
overseas training for key personnel.
32



(c)   Sector policy objectives
The sector policy objectives were largely achieved.
The national physical development plan is providing a framework for present and
future planning. It serves mainly as a strategic framework for the preparation of
the outline schemes for the local authorities and the formulation of guidelines for
controlling development. The NPDP also provides a spatial framework for
guiding public sector investment.
The environmental laboratories are producing useful data for compliance,
monitoring and forward planning.
A national solid waste management plan was prepared and financed by the
European Union (EU). Subsequently the Mare Chicose landfill which was
financed by the Bank is now operational.
Two marine parks have been proclaimed. The Black River Gorges National Park
has been formally established and is functional.
In addition, one of the policies developed, financed out of the reliquat under this
loan is the National Environmental Strategy for the Republic of Mauritius for the
coming decade. This assignment started in January 1998 and was scheduled to be
completed in September 1998. In order to crystallize the most appropriate
strategy that would gain broader consensus/acceptance among the stakeholders
the proposed strategies would need further reformulation. Thus, the contract of
the Consultant has been extended, to end April 1999.
(d)   Environmental objectives
The project achieved most of its environmental objectives, though with some
unforeseen delays. The NPDP is used extensively in town and country planning
although the Town and Country Planning Act 1995 has not been promulgated yet.
It has been observed that the industries are becoming more environment
conscious as they are gradually complying with the environmental standards.
This may be attributed to the laboratories exerting greater control on the discharge
of effluents, Quality Control and Assurance, analysis of agro-products and Water
Quality, etc.
* The Mare Chicose sanitary landfill is receiving solid wastes, mainly from the
south of the island. Two dumping grounds have been closed and rehabilitated.
The few existing ones would soon be closed and rehabilitated.
* A unit within the Fisheries Division has been established to follow up the
marine conservation components of the project and it is conducting surveys,
33



physico-chemical analysis and monitoring of the lagoon, so as to ensure the
protection of the reefs and lagoon as well as protecting the marine resources.
* The Black River Gorges National Park is a safe habitat for many indigenous
and endemic plant and animals species as well as for providing a popular
recreational place for Mauritians and Tourists.
6.    Project sustainability
(a)   Financial sustainability
The Government is fully committed to protect and conserve our environmental
resources and as such it is supporting the project. It is providing adequate
resources to ensure the operation and maintenance of investments made under the
project. The Health Quality, Water Quality, and Agriculture Quality laboratories
do recover some revenues by charging industries for analysis of samples,
monitoring etc..
(b)   Institutional sustainability
The Department of Environment (DOE) is now established as the main agency
within the Ministry of Environment, Human Resources Development and
Employment with a key role to play in protecting the environment.
(c)   Benefits sustainability
Concrete improvement in environmental conditions in Mauritius are certainly due
to activities carried out under the project eventually leading to an upgrading in the
quality of life of the Mauritians. The Department of Environment is performing
its role of devising environmental policies and coordinating environmental
activities of other ministries and agencies. The environmental laboratories are
generating valuable information on the state of the environment, on sources and
nature of pollution, and on impacts of pollution on human health and ecosystems.
These data are essential in developing any environmental protection and
management program.  The laboratories would in the near future also be
publishing annual state of the environment reports, which can provide an
indication of the trends in environmental performance, and develop monitoring
and research programmes which focus on the most serious environment problems.
Benefits provided by the Mare Chicose sanitary landfill are likely to be sustained
as long as it remains in operation. Unless a mode of solid waste disposal is
devised for the Northern catchrnent area of Mauritius, this landfill will reach the
end of it's life time sooner than originally designed because it would also be
receiving waste intended from the proposed second landfill (in the north) which
was not built because of land acquisition problems.
34



The national park is being successfully maintained as habitat for endangered
s]pecies. However, full benefits will be attained after regulations protecting
wildlife will be proclaimed.
7.    Borrower's performance
Borrower performance during project implementation was generally satisfactory. In the
early years of implementation, the DOE had some difficulties in coordinating and
communicating with other executing ministries and agencies. This led to delays in
implementation.
Implementation progress improved markedly after the midterm review. Following the
Bank's recommendations, an officer was delegated as a full-time project coordinator and
an action plan was prepared with detailed timetables and clear schedule of
responsibilities. Monthly progress meetings were held reviewing the monthly progress
reports submitted by the executing agencies.
Borrower's performance regarding compliance with legal covenants was satisfactory.
Regarding procurement, the Borrower generally followed satisfactory procurement
procedures. However, there were some delays owing to non compliance of tender
documents with the Bank's procedures. The financing of the transfer station at Solferino
by the Bank had to be abandoned because tender documents pertaining to the works
were amended after the Bank issued its no-objection.
Key lessons learnt
(a)   A full tinme project coordinator is needed to implement projects involving many agencies,
donors and activities.
(b)   To facilitate implementation, as far as possible the projects should not be too complex, or
involve too many agencies and activities. Past experience has shown that this is
especially true when the agency responsible for overall project coordination is newly
created.
(c)   The use of action plans, with detailed timetables and specific responsibilities assigned to
the implementing agencies facilitate project implementation. The use of such action
plans helps reveal problems quickly and timely solutions can be found easily and timely.
It also improves accountability.
(d)   All preparatory activities (such as detailed designs for a landfill) should be completed
prior to signing the legal agreement. This allows the Bank and Borrower to better specify
what the investment requirements will be. It also allows faster disbursement loan
proceeds and therefore reduces the financial costs of borrowing.
(e)   A  regular monthly meeting chaired by the project coordination body improved
communication between the various agencies and helps in quickly identifying problems
and finding solutions.
35



(f)   For complex projects involving many agencies, regular meetings at a ministerial level,
such as the National Environment Commission chaired by the Prime Minister, or the
ECC, demonstrates Government commitment to environmental protection and the
project. This encourages executing agencies to devote resources to executing the project
and helps resolve inter-sectoral conflicts.
(g)   Operations and maintenance requirements should be planned and sources of financing
identified prior to undertaking investments, particularly for activities which will require
substantial funds for these purposes.
(h)   Responsibilities for the midterm review, and mode of financing, should be clearly
specified in the project appraisal document and in the legal agreement.
(i)    The participatory and open process of decision-making adopted during project
implementation consolidated the integrated approach. It made the process transparent,
and this helped to strengthen democratic institutions.
(j)   Training programmes or at least formal briefing sessions particularly to those directly
involved in feasibility studies and projects implementation should be organised at least
twice during the life-span of the project. This will ensure smooth running of the
components and proper follow up of the Bank procedures.
(k)   Accessibility/availability of proper software to all implementing organisations so as to
enable proper monitoring and follow up at their ends.
(1)    As far as possible there must be continuity of implementing officers under the different
component during the life time of the project component.
(m)   In the event of capacity strengthening under certain components, appropriate time bars
need to be well defined both in terms of logistics and personnel.
(n)   In some project components, land acquisition has proved to be one of the most difficult
hurdles. This item should be given due consideration at the stage of project identification
and not after the project has started.
(o)   Project components need  to  have  in-built criteria  for project evaluation  of
implementation, project output, as well as operational indicators.
(p)   Where applicable, socio-cost benefit analysis must be undertaken as a prerequisite to
implementation of project components.
8.    Bank's performance
The Bank's performance was highly appreciated during project identification, preparation,
appraisal and supervision.
Supervision missions took place regularly about every six months.  This was adequate.
Altogether thirteen missions took place once the project became effective.  The missions
36



provided substantive help in identifying and solving problems. The Bank provided valuable
advice following the midterm review, reorienting the project and recommending that the DOE
and executing agencies adopt action plans with detailed timetables. The Bank also suggested
ways for the DOE to strengthen its coordination function, such as appointing a full-time project
coordinator. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in adapting the project for Borrower needs. The
Bank agreed to finance construction of a sanitary landfill at Mare Chicose originally intended to
be financed locally. It permitted two one-year extension of time to allow completion of works
for the national park and landfill, and of training programs for laboratory staff.
Key lesson learnt
(a)   A mid term review was carried out as part of a regular supervision mission without the
services of an external consultant.
10.   Performance indicators to be used to monitor operations
Originally, the components under the Environmental Monitoring and Development
Project had no in-built evaluation criteria. Therefore performance can only be based on
outputs and achievement of objectives of the individual components.
Most of the project have been completed and the targets set have been achieved.
The laboratories are generating data and in the future, they would produce annual reports
with regards to the state of the environment. The National Physical Development Plan is
being used to guide spatial planning though the amendments proposed in 1990 and 1995
of the Town and Country Planning Act have not been promulgated.
The Mare Chicose Landfill is operational and the amount of waste received at the landfill
is expected to increase to its optimal value (designed maximum) in the coming months
with the closure and rehabilitation of the saturated dumping sites.
The marine conservation components are ongoing and the Fisheries Division has already
started generating data with regards to the health of the lagoonal ecosystem.
The Meteorological Office is collecting data on wave as well as other parameters.
Infrastructure would be developed for the marine parks with the opportunities of further
research works carried out on marine park sites.
The Black River Gorges National Park is being administered and the conservation areas
are being managed properly. At present, all the management costs are being borne by the
Government of Mauritius.
37



