Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A/I      3Z          7 7                  Repoi No.8996-HAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAURITIUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JOVEMBER 16, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
ThIs document ha a roeteid distrbu   and say be used by recipints ody in the pernmnume of
thi oflikd dute  Its Xonaest may not oterwie be disosed wthut Wodd Dank autulv*n



CURECY EO1flVAWm
Currency Unit              =                Mauritius Rupee (MuR)
US$1.00                    =                MuR. 15.0
MuR. 1.00                                   US$ 0.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m.)                               3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (kn.)          =               0.62 mile (mi.)
I square hlometer (km2)    =               0386 square miles (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha)             =               2.47 acres (ac.)
1 metric ton                                2,205 pounds (lbs.)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADF            -           Afiican Development Fund
Afl)B          -           African Development Bank
AQL            -           Agriculture Quality Laboratory
CCCE           -           Caise Centrale de Coope.ation Economique
CEL            -           Central Envirr nmental Labotatory
CFITC          -           Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
CWA            -           Central Water Authority
EIP            -           Environmental Investment Program
EPZ            -           Export Processing Zone
EPD            -           Environmental Protection Department
GOM            -           Government of Mauritius
HQL            -           Health Quality Laboratory
ICOD           -           International Centre for Ocean Development
IPM            -           Integrated Pest Management
KfW            -           Kreditanstalt for WViederaufbau
MAFNR          -           Ministry of Agrkulture, Fisheries and Natural
Resources
MATIM          -           Mission d'am6nageraent du temritoire l'le Maurice
MEDIA          -           Mauritius Export Development and Investment
Authority
MELU           -           Ministry of Environment and Land Use
MLG            -           Mistry of Local Government
MOE            -           Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Postal
Services
MOF            -           Ministry of Fmiance
MOH            -           Ministra of Health
MOI                        Mirstry of Industry and Industial Technology
NEAP           -           National Environmental Action Plan
NEC            -           National Environment Commission
NDF            -           Nordic Development Fund
NGO            -           Non-Governmental Organization
NIB            -           Nordic inestment Bank
NPDP           -           National Physical Development Plan
ODA            -           Overseas Development Administration, UX.
PCB                        Pesticide Control Board
WQL            -           Water Quality Laboratory
MMA            -           Mauritius Marine Authority
MOW            -           Ministry of Works
UNDP           -           United Nations Development Programme
MEMP           -           Marine Environmental Management Plan
GOVERN T  OF MAURUS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAURnWS
ENVIRONMIENTAL MONTr0RING & DSNUADPMIENT PROJECh1
UBLE OF CONE
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECN   SWdARY .......E          S.....................              i-m
1.    INTRODUCTION               ....................................            1
A. Mauritiusatthe Thrshold            ............................          1
B. Development Constraints and Opportunities .....      ...........        1
C  Recent Economic and Soci  Developments           ................       2
D. DWelopment Prioritie .............................. .                   3
IL   ENVIRONMENT AND  DEVELOP>flENT: THE ISSUES                                  5
A. Institutional and Legislative Framework .S
B. Land Management.                                                        6
C. Agriculture.                                                            7
D. Industry .10
E. Tourism .11
F. Households and Consumers                                               14
0. Marine Conservation .15
H. Terrestrial Conservation .16
L Implications for Action .16
IIL   THE ENVIRQNMENTAL  IV ESTMET P-ROGRAM                    ..........       18
A. Program Origin ....................................                    18
B. Progrm Objectives .................................                    19
C  ProgramDescription ................................                    19
D. Program Costs and Fmancing ..........................                  23
E. Economic Justification of the Prgnun ....................              26
F. Donor/Lender and Country Risk ........................                 29
IV.  THDE PROJECr ...................... ..................                     32
A. Project Origin and Objectis ..........................                 32
B. Project Components .................................                   32
C  Project Cost ......................................                    45
D. Funacing Plan  ....................................                    45
E. Procurement ......................................                     47
F. Disbursements .....................................                     0
G. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requiremets ....      .......       52
HL Project Implementation and Supervision ....................            52
Thi Iwpw   prepmdp by Mesm Mtiad IV Rahn= (S1i Pbud! 4sfA
GaWhud Tsisauwd (Saior MAhicd Engiw), and Fnk Cmwy (F.sounist - C&wdtem)
f uing Pd an appmaa nusm an May 199i      w aniuimi coxod of Mews  Michad Ra6zon
(MuiiR Leadc), Jcsdha hw, Gahani  dmw BawiK (AiN  1dm &W    Frk Caa
Kwwth Stoub Ms Caleh Eka (CAmJ             ) and Mm Hatly (Amy JW e Pruaam
Tmu)  Mu L=aVdlascopwd d 5ata h4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   J     MUflO]N3AJ L FRAMEw iO AND MAIN AGENCIES .......                 53
A. National Evironment Commisidon (NEC)         .................      53
B. Environmental Prtection Department (EPD)
Ministry of Environment & Land Use (MELU) ....    ........        53
C  Environmental Council of Mauritius (ECM) .....    ...........       55
D. Non4overnmental Organations (NGO's) .....        ............       55
VI.  BENEIT  ECONOMIC JUSTFICATION AND RISKS .........                      56
A. Benefits ...........      ..............................            56
B. EFonomic Justification ...............................              56
C. Rateof Return ....................................                  57
D. Riss          ..............................                        57
VII. AGREEMENaT  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........                       59
1: Donor Pledges at January 1989 Paris Conference
2   Detailed Program Cost Table
3:  Economic Justification of the EIP
4: Establishment of Environmental Laboratories
5:  Study for the Development of an Industrial Estate for Water
Intensive and Polluting Activities - Terms of Reterence
6: Leasing Areas for Conservation Management to NGOs - The Maaritian Experience
7:  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
&   Project Implementation Schedule
9   Project Supervision Plan
10: Orgnizational Structure of EPD/MELU
11: List of Documents Available in the Project File
MAP: IBRD 22665



-i-
Md[RN
ENIRONMENL4L MONRING rDRP
L and   am
Govenent of Mauitdus
_US1237 nmiin
17yearv repaen with 5 years grace (IBRD)
atD              At a dime when the country is pursuing sound macoeconomic pofici
Mawitus has seied the opponuity to focus on an approach dtat am  to
prevent future costs fim evbmental deadato   Cnsequendy  te Bank
has been asitng the Goverment to develop an oeawull nat     stmtegV which
integtes enviomental concea  into its devlopment pocess. Thi has
nvolved Bank assistane to the Govwnment over the last two years in its effons
n developing a poi, instional and klgise framewoak and an investment
proram for evirnme    prtecioand managmnt  The proposed Project
would finance invesoment, stde  and some tehnical ass    and he4p
Jfore,- the Process of coo.inadiwn among dnows The proposed Proect
would consit of. (i) a National Phy*cal Dev1en Pan, (ii) evwnweal
lbabtos,e (iii) desin and m   _en g studies of a industial parc for
pollting indusies, (iv) des  and irmpl Won of a sanity landfil sie
and rehbito of present dumps; (v) intrated pest manwgm        and
rsawh (vi) mane conwevadon, and (vii) establshment of the Black River
Gogs National Park
The 1?ject compie core elemnts of the Mawitids Envimnmtal Investment
Am   (EIP), wout wich the rest of the EIP camsot succeed 7he benefis
which can be atributed spec#ay  to the Project incue: cost-effective
allcion of envimentay remlaed injh ftnwt   invesmens environentaly
appropiiat a    of new invesonent envinental quality conol, treament
of toivn and  dulial, incding taOic waste;  proved n diposal of solid
waste; devlopent of ceape, more              benfomns of pest
contol for apkudar,e the couweavadon of the onay area of oral ind enous
foret remining in Mawitiu, and the associatd flora and faun4 with the
qptions which the consevato of dis geneic stock keeps open for she fuiture in
tms of potenta deveopent of medkcies, food prducion, and basi
resean,hk and the rraiona qppoa prvded by the natonal padc,
coewe on of the manne evinnmen  and the developent of recreation
qppofuniie vWa maame pads.
The main ns in the ecu    of the Projec rfate to the governe's ability
to make the insonal and pokey adjustments necessaly to acheve
iplemenati     s including enfowemen   However, such risk, are diminshed by:
the nature of the NE.4Pprcs &W, which intxvly involved Governmn



an die pivae secos at aUl klve as mg as oder tmt rop ich*dig
nadoa and iratl  NGa0s and dthfore assums commimet in the
mde wank d
made in       e~awnmm   p*der,a anAd the bck recod of die
iwpleme        agec  in odierpom     ee ,Wct are at minimd by
Government's awarenes of the likey economic coss of delays or poor
inilaenatonof the prject becus of dhe hig depedent~y of the Mawitian
tounts economy on a hig qat  onvbmen  Pny, the etena vily of
the P<Wm va-a-* (he dno and ealmuaie  ill be an
kmotnt~ incetiv for govenune  to implemenitt
Foreig
as%of
Lalca       &ot    IQn          Total
-USg mi$ ion-
(1) Nationd Physwl Deopent Plan             0.24        1.47      1.71    86.2
(2) Envine    Labora                        0.53        4.31      4.84    89.0
(3) Indusria Parl
-Des  and Enaoerin                    0.07         0.60     0.67    90.0
(4) Solid Waste Mangem    Plv
-De    of Sanay Lnf1 Site            02           0.23      0.25    90.5
-Implkmet  of Lanl                    1.58        3.43      S.01    65
-Rehaban of    tt Dmps                0.20        0.30      0.so    60.0
Sub-total for (4):                     1.80         3.96      5.76    68.7
(5) Intrated Pest Mgt & Resean*             004         0.21      a25    85.3
(6) Marine Coevaon                          0.29        0.86      1.15    74.6
(7) Blabc River Gotge National P            0.67        1.75      242    721
Total Base Cost                        3.64        13.16     1680    7&3
(a) phyical                            0.13         0.49       63    78.8
(b)Pice                                0.68         2.43      3.10    78.2
Sub-WWt                              0.81        292       3.73    78.3
710T4L FINNCING REQUWRED               4.45        16.08     205.3    78.3



%of
LalL M o-t   ToW Ital
-(US$ mAN)
Govemment of Maudtus                          4.45     3.31     7.76      38
Wodd Bank                                     0.00    1237    1237        60
Intnationd Cen for Ocean Deveo ment (ICOD)   0.00      0.40     0.40       2
Total                                        4.45    1608    20.53     100
EYL    MF92   FY3   EYZI   FYg5
__-momUSS 
IBRD:
Annual                                       0.18    1.59    3.35    3.54    3.71
Cwnzdative                                   0.18    1.77    5.12    8.66   1237
Econmi Rafe of                               At last 15 percnt



. I -
L INTRODUCTION
A. Mauritius at the Threshold
1.01       Over the past decade, a high quality environment has been a key factor of
production in the economic re-vitalization of Mauritius a rapidly growing textile and garments
sector has drawn on groundwater and surface water resources to feed its process requirements,
and the industry has used the rivers and the ocean to dispose of its wastes; a dynamic tourism
sector has been built on the attractions of the natural and cultural envronment, while
agricultural productivity has been maintained by the heavy use of environment-demandig
fertilizers and pesticides.
1.02       However, it has become clear that the capacity of the country's environmental
assets to sustain these vital roles is under threat; without management and investment,
envronmental problems will inhibit further development, and reduce the quality of life of
Mauritians. At this threshold, and at a time when the country is pursuing generally appropriate
macroeconomic policies, Mauritus has seized the opportunity to focus on an approach that aims
to reduce future costs from environmental degradation, and to develop an overall strategy which
integrates environmental concerns into its development process.
. Development Constaints and Ogortunities
1.03       Mauritius consists of a group of islands in the Indian Ocean, with a total area of
about 2,045 km2. The densely populated principal island (population 1.0 million in 1985) is
located some 800 km east of Madagascar. Less developed outer islands are dispersed over a
wide area of the Indian Ocean; the largest of them (Rodrigues with a population of 30,700 in
1985) is 650 km east of the main island of Mauritius.
1.04       The country has a narrow natural resource base. Sugar cane is grown on almost
90 percent of the island's total cultivable land (45 percent of total land area), and the sugar
industry employs about 20 percent of the labor force (1987). Despite significant expanion since
the early 1970s of other sectors, notably manufacturing and tourism, sugar cane exports still
represent the largest source of net foreign exchange earnings, and the export tax levied on sugar
output contributes about 11 percent to Government's current revenues.
1.05       Mauritius is dependent on imports to provide most of its food supplies. Rice, dairy
products and flour account for almost a quarter of import expenditure. Petroleum imports
account for another 6 percent of the cost of imports (1988). Mauritius is self-sufficient for
about a quarter of its electricity needs, which it derives from hydroelectric sources and from the
recycling of sugar by-products, particularly bagasse.
1.06       The absence of mineral resources and the distance of Mauritius from major
markets affect the potential for economic development and condition its choice of economic
activities. Mauritius does not lie on the main sea routes and maritime transport costs are
higher than for countries competing in similar markets.



.2 -
1.07      The country's shortcomings in the way of location and conventional natural
resources are compensated for by its magnificent natural environment, which is very attractive
to affluent tourists, and by its well-educated population and rich cultural heritage. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education greatly exceed those of neighboring countries.
The adult fiteracy rate is 83 percent (most Mauritians speak three or more languages), life
expectancy at birth is about 68 years, the population growth rate is 1.4 percent per year, and
the basic needs of the population are exively covered. GNP per capita exceeded US$ 1,600
in 1987, placing Mauritius soLidly in the group of middle-income countries. Unemployment in
1987 is estimated to have been around five percent. About 66 percent of the population is of
Indian oringn; 29 percent consists of people of African or mixed descent, and Franco-
Mauritians and Sino-Mauritians account for the remaining five percent.
1.08      Reflecting its history over the past 350 years, Mauritius has inherited a complex
legal framework encoirpassing elements of both the French and English systems. Diluted
authority and diffused legislation have imponrtant implications for rational, efficient, and
sustainable natural resource management. To be successful, a concerted effort to tackle
eronmental problems requires a systematic review of institutional, legal and regulatory
arrangements, and the establishment of a comprehensive national policy for enmronmental
protection and management.
C. Recent Ecnomic and Socal Develonments
1.09      Foilowing the successful implementation df successive stabilization and structural
adjustment programs in the early 19804 the economy of Mauritius experienced an economic
boom which resulted in a near doubling of per capita incomes. Between 1985 and 1988, real
GDP growth averaged about 7 percent annually and it is estimated that GNP per capita topped
US$1,800 in 1988. This rapid export-led growth over the past five years or so can be attnbuted
to a number of factors: the strong demand for the products of Mauritius' growing sectorse, the
export processing zone and tourism; the continuation of the sugar quota arrangement with the
EEC a fivorable business environment promoting private enterprise, including strong incentives
provided by the government for the growt sectors, coupled with prudent demand management;
the dynamism and pragmatism of the Mauritian entrepreneurs; and generaly favorable extermal
conditionb.
1.10      While Mauritius' economic performance continues to be satisfactory, there are
indications that the boom is over and a period of more sustainable growth has set in, as
evidenced by the comparatively modest growth in GDP of about 3.9 percent in 1989. This
decline in the rapid pace of economic growth was inevitable, given that Maurinus had attained
full employment and could no longer rely on additional growth by deploying idle labor
resources. Rapidly rising wage rates, reflectin the tight labor market situation, have continued
to exert upward pressures on the rate of inflation, which was 12.6 percent for 1989 and is
expectd to remain at about that level for 1990. The situation has been exacerbated by an
expansionary fiscal policy in the past two years which has pushed up the fiscal deficit-to-GDP
ratio to about 3A percent in 1989090. Despite these developments, the country's balance of
payments remains in overall surplus and international reserves have risen to almost five months
of imports.



3-3
1.11      In addition to the competent management of the economy, the government bas
been alert to develpments that require public sector intentin. It also accepts the
responsibility for formulating a vision for the future cad is willing to anticipate steps that need
to be taken now to reach its goals Its concerns for longer-teWm ie tes like employment and the
environment reflect this attitude.
D.   D     _       t
1.12      The success of future economic growth in Mauiius wl depend larey on five
factou:
(1)  the extent to which the tourim sector can continue to generate more
mocome and value added, without a commensurate icrease in the number of
visitors, or bednights;
(2)  the ability of the EPZ sector to diversify into new commodities away from
tetiles and garment;
(3)  the success with which dersification within and outside the sugar sector can
be accomplishe;
(4)  improvement of the quality of life and of the envionment as unemployment
decreases aud wages increase; and
(5)  manpower development to address the gowing shortage of skilled labor and
to promote the development of the semce sector.
1.13      Cocern with the environment is a central issue in all of these factors. The
potentil for furter economic development i Mauridus is inextricably linked to envrnmental
quaity. This is perhaps most obvious in the case of tourism, where, to a substantial degree, the
product being sold is a high quality environment. Any significant decline in quality, or even in
the perception of it, wil weaken the competitiveness of the sector, and will do so particularly in
the high income groups which have been targeted as the prnay market.
1.14      But a high quality envonment will also be important for future developments in
idustry and agriculu  The next stage of industrial development wfll inolve a combination of
knowledge-based activity, where design, informatics and finance are important. The perception
that Mauritius has a high quality environment will provide a valuable competitive edge in
attacting scarce takent and capita in these aras
L11       As agriculure makes the transition from sugar to food crops, it will be a valuable
marketing~laber for Mauritian farmers if it can be claimed with confidence that the products
therefom  are grown in an envionment friendlf fishion.
1.16       As levels of income and education continue to rise, the interest of citizens in
protecting their unique naural enonment for their enjoyment and for postty wil intensify,



.4-
and they will find that ilness and deaths resulting from avoidable environmental degradation are
unacceptable to them.
1.17      Conservation will also meet the needs of the global envionmental community,
which has recognized that the unique flora and fauna of Mauritius are under threat, and that
valuable options for the future wil be foregone if the genetic endowment remaining is not
protected.
1.18      The Environmental Investment Program, and the ensuing Project, derive their
content, rationale and priorities from the foregoing.
1.19       In the net section (Chapter U), the specifics as to the issues and implications are
elaborated.



IL ENVIRa NMET AN  DEELOM ENT: TRE ISSUES
A. IsAtua and Letislat ra
2.01       Until July 1990 when the Government adopted a White Paper on the subject,
Maurltius had lacked a national environmental policy, i.e., a comprehensive policy for
environmental protection and natural resource management whic provides the goals, directions
and guidance for Government action 1/. Consequently, there has been a need for action to
develop such a policy based explicitly on the essential interependence of c.vironment and
successfu economic development, and proviing the guiding legal prnciples for the nation's
leislative famework for environment.
2.02       Neither was there an nstitutional structure to provide osight and coordination
of government actions which affect envronmental management and protection. There were
many gernment bodies with individual missions which involve the enmvonment. Some have
authority over some aspects of environmental protecdon, others have missions which impact the
emnvronment. Government has therefore established a ministerial level National Environment
Commission (NEC) chaired by the Prime Minister.
2.03       The responsibilites and authorites of the exsting governmental bodies are partal,
Frgmented, often overlapping, with unclear accountability, inadequate authority, and there are
sinficant areas of the environment for which no authority or responsibility exists. Therefore
there is a need to make a comprehensive review of the existing governmental structure and of
the country's needs in ewironmental protection, and on the basis of this, to rationalize the
instituional structure to assure that
(1)  all necessary areas of environmental protection are adequately seved by
government institutions; and
(2)  the responsibilhies, authorities and accountabilities are clear, with
duplication and overlap eliminated and new bodies created or other
arrangements made, where necessary, to fil gaps.
2.04       Government has established the Environmental Protection Department (EPD)
withi the Ministry of Enviromet and Land Use. Consequently, the institutional change
needed to deal with this institutional issue is to streamline and streagthen the functions of
existing institutions, with the EPD responsibe for overall coordination, review and enforcement,
and indudig  ithin the Department the other essential activities which are not being carried
out by any existing institution.
2.05       The existing legislative framework concerning environmental protection and
management in Mauritius is inadequate. The laws which bear on the subject are inconsistent
3/         This Paper is a prodat of the Eiwromemtal Action Plamins prcess, an comprises a
philosophical and practical outline of the soverrmt's objectives nd wethods.



-6 -
and some are outdated. There are areas of duplication or inconsistency in coverage,
responsibility and authority, and there are major gaps in covera   Where legslation does exist
the penlties are uniformly low, adequate enforcement is reported to be lacking, and there is
inadequate accountability. Consequently, there is a need to conduct a comprehensie review of
the country's legislative needs related to the environment and of its existing legislation which
bears on the subject. On the basis of the review, a complete and cohesive legislative framework
for environmental protection and management should be created.
B. Land Managme
2.06      A fundamental issue in the area of land management in Mauritius is the lack of a
national physical development plan to guide the spatial development of the island. The need
for such a plan has been recognized for nearly thirty years. Prior to 1970 the lack of
socio-economic data and skilled physical planners prevented progress towards meeting this need.
During the 1970's a major attempt to prepare a comprehensive land use plan for the country
(MATIM) 2/ resulted in the compilation of usefil data, the definition of medium and long-term
physical development proposals and suggestions for ways to exercise development controL The
fact that the plan did not contain an assessment of development priorities with associated
economic and financial costs, coupled with the lack of an appropriate institutional framework
for the implementation of the proposals, meant that the plan did not constitute an effective
guidance mechanism for spatial development.
2.07       Further attempts to revise the MATIM plan and to generate alternative gowth
scenarios in the context of rapid industrialization of the economy of the island in the early 1980s
ran headlong into a fundamental policy snag, namely economic growth versus environmental
conservation. Ad hoc attempts by the then Ministry of Housing, Land and Town and Country
Planning to prepare "outline schemes or zoning plans for various local areas was largely
ineffective owing to the lack of an appropriate plan approval process. It was also the victim of
cumbersome development control regulations administered by a plethora of pubLic agencies.
2.08      The chief manifestations of this uncontrolled process include the jutaposition of
mutually antagonistic land uses, continued unapproved encroachment on agricultural land, lack
of co-ordinatiotn of planning and installing urban and industral infrastructure, and speculation in
undeveloped land. One of the major consequences of this situation has been the creation of
environmental stress which threatens the long-term prospects for a high quality of life in
Mauritius.
2.09      To the extent that development controL and, by implication, environmental
protection are functions of effective land administration, there is a need to strengthen the
process by which parcels of land are defined, itifiled, allocated, transferred, subdided
(morcellement), registered as to tidtles including encumbracs, valued and taed. The basis for
rational land administration is the cadastre based on large-scale mapping
2.10       The increasing awareness of the disappearance of historic and architectural
structures is a recent phenomenon in Mauritiis. There is no effective institutional framework
v/       lNssfan d'ainsqmnt du torritoire t'lIe Nrtc.



.7.-
with adequate resources to ensure the preserOion of these structures. The majority of places
listed as historic are tombs and not buildings. By law no religious building may be added to
the register of listed buildigs. Most of the listed buildings are privately owned. There is no
incentive system to promote the presevation of privately owned stctues of historic interest.
The current concept of presevation does not extend to the area or district in which the
structue is located nor does it pay attention to conservation of the surrounding landscape or
vgetation. There is a lack of criteria to determine whether or not a structure should be
preserved. The is a growing concern about the loss of antiques.
C. 
2.11        Sugar has been the traditionl mainstay of the island's economy. It is still very
important, covering almost 90 percent of the agncultural land area, employing almost 20 percent
of the labor force, and contnbuting about 10 percent to GDP. However, its share of activity
has been falling, as it comprnses a relatively static volume I/ in a rapidly growing economy.
Central to the sector's success has been access to the European Community market, and the
high prices obtained therein.
2.12       TMe envirmental implications of sugar production are positive in so far as the
crop prvides good cover and protection aganst soil erosion, and protection against insects is
provided by bioklgical, non-toxic methods. Potential problems arise from a heavy use of
herbicides, and the use of nitrogenous fertilizers. Since nitrogen atoms are not well bound by
soil, there is a strong propensity for that which is not taken up by plants to drain into rivers
and lagoons or seep into the ground. This is facilitated by the fissured nature of the geological
formations which underlie much of the island. Insecticides and fungicides are used mainly in
the production of other food crops. Figures 1, Z and 3 indicate that since 1986 there has been
a trend towards decreasing application, which is a positve development.
yUder the Sugar Action Plen, everiige annul pioduction of sugar has been fixed at 650.000
tens. Future inwstm.nts in the suar factories mitl be guided by this traeted level of
production.



-8
Figure 1. Volume of N, P, and K (Nutrient Conteni), Mauritius
120-
j110
Phosphate
100-                                        I                     I
90
*    1985s   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
0                      Year
Figure 2 Rel Pric and Volume ndies, InsictIcides, Maturtlus
160-
140 
.120
~ 0
U nsect Price
N100                                        -'-    nset VoL
1985    1986    1087    1988    1989    1990
Year
Sowce  World Ban Appra   Mission Estimates (May 1990)



Figure 3. Real Price and Volume Indices, Fungicides, Mauritlus
200 -
0o                    C'4
,- 100 -c
U  Fungicide price
c                                                  U11|1    *   *   -   111 Fungicide Vol
0
1986      1987      1988       1989
Year
Source: World Bank Appraisal Mision Estimates (May 1990)
2.13        The levels and methods of applimction of herbicides and fertilizers n h
appear to cause environmental problems. There are between 30 and 40 deaths registered
annually in government hospitals as a result of the toxic effects of pesticides, while 300 to 400
patients are treated annually for it. These are the formally registered totals; it is likel that
adding the unofficial count would double the number. An unknmn proportion of these totals
are suicides or attempted suicides. There is anecdotal evidence that the rives and lagoons are
beginning to suffer the effects of nutrient enrichment, and one of the likeW sources is
agriculture, including in this definition the sugar processing sector, which generates very
substantial loads of orpnic waste Healthy lagoons and coral ree6 are es4ential for the wl-
being of artianal fishery, and - much more importantly from an economic point of view - they
are central to the appeal of Mauritius for tourists.
2.14       It is important that progress be made on the development of non-toxic forms of
pest control, and that an understanding be developed as to the linkages between fertlzer
application and eutrophication, so that appropriate strategies can be adopted. This need is
particularly pressing as Mauritian agriculture makes the transition from sugar to other crops.
In addition to the environmental benefits noted above, there may wel be a marketig advantage
for the fledgling food industry in Mauritius it it can project itself as enaronment friendly. Its
competitors on the world market will certainly adopt this theme when and where they can do so
with some plausibility, and will not hesitate to point out the environmental deficencies of
production in Mauritius, if such east. It is also important for Maunitin consumers to know
that pesticide residue levels on their food are within acceptable levels.



t 10 -
D. Indu
2.15       The tetile and garments industry omprises the core of the manuf ig
renaissance in Mauitius, having grown at an annual rate of 24 percent from 1984 to 197. On
the supply side, this gowth has been stimulated by veay advantageous tax prvisin operating
in the isand under the Export Prosng Zone (EPZ) prwisons, while, on the demand side,
skillfu use has been made of the access to European and US markets provwided by Lame and
various other international agreements. However, as in the case of agriculture, it appears that
the potential for continued expansion in the traditional textile/garment lines is limited. A
growth rate of 4 percent was recorded for 1989.
2.16       A vaiety of options is being considered by both the busine  community and the
government. Whatever mix of industrial activities emerges as the growth areas, there is general
agreement that the emphasis will have to be on utilizing the inteUectual resources of the well
educated workforce, because wage levels are likely to exceed those available in the (many) less
developed countnes now looking to low value added textiles as the first stage of their
idustrialization process. This has implications for the environment in at least two respects: it
means that the 'new wave" of industry is unlikely to impose substantial "traditional demands on
the environment for water, solid waste disposal, emissions to air, etc. But it also means that
this new industry will have no enthusiasm for locating in an environment which is degaded. If
the new industrial activities are drivenW entirely by indigenous entrepreneurs, environmental
quality would perhaps be a relatively minor consideration. However, if it is desirable to attract
high calber personnel in the international market, where skills are scarce, then the perception
- which now exists - of Mauritius as having a relatively pristine environment gives the country
a competitive edge. The corollay follows that if this perception is lost, then competitiveness
for highly skilled personnel, and the associated capital, is reduced.
2.17       Apart from the organic wastes produced by the sugar industry (addressed in the
Agriculture" section), the main envionmental problem dering from industry has been the
water pollution caused by the 35 dye houses established to service the needs of the
tdilegarment sector. lhese are sited with little regard to their surrounding environt.
Wastewater effluents are rarely treated effectively, if at all, and these abusive practices are a
potential threat to the drinking water supply and coastal water ecology. Indistrial inefficiencies
are placing greater demands on shrining water resources. Localized shortages are beginning to
occur. There are few incentives to encourage water conservation or reuse. Solid waste
collection is inefficient and incomplete. Disposal sites are simply unmanaged dumps. Industrial
waste has not only placed hrther strains on the infrastructure, but their chemical nature
presents a potential risk to the public. These new chemicals entering the workplace also pose
an occupational disease hazard to the Mauritian work1bn'-e.
2.18       The economic implications of this poliution have not bcen quantified, but its most
damaging implication could be for the image of the island. as noted above, a negative image in
ths respect could damage the prospects for industrial expansion, and as discussed below, could
have catastrophic implications for the tourist industry.
2.19       The existing industry also produces toic wastes. There is no suitable place for the
disposal of such wastes at present. There is no documented evidence that existing means of
disposal are causing problems, and groundwater is a major concern, but it is surely not prudent



-11-
to assume that such will be the case in the future. If a problem arises at any time which
adversely affects the health of residents, or is believed to so do, the experience is universal that
this sharply reduces the acceptability of a wide range of industry which gets 'tarred with the
same brush".
2.20       The environmental challenge then with regard to industry is as follows: to deal
with the existing problems immediately, to ensure that the next generation of industty has a
solid envronmental platform from which to attract the requisite skdlls and capital; and to ensure
that the development prospects of the more traditional forms of industry which are well
managed environmentally are not impaired because of public distrust. For new industry, the
physical infrastructure must be in place, the environmental management system must be
efficient, and the incentives must encourage environmentally benign behavior.
E. Tourism
2.21       Expansion in the tourism sector parallels that of the manufacturing industry, with
visitor numbers and tourist nights increasing by 78 and 75 percent respectively between 1985
and 1989, while tourism expenditure in real terms expanded by 258 percent over the same
period.
2.22       Mauritius' policy for tourism is to encourage quality rather than quantity, catering
to the upper income end of the market. The marketing strategy is captured in the following
brochure (Mauritius: Why is it so hard to find it on the World MaDi:
Mauritius has all the exoticism of the most exotic resorts, but none of their scars.
No high-rises, no concrete jungles. No charter flights, no mass tourism. No social
or environmental pollution. Only virgin beaches, embraced by coral reefi,
translucent lagoons, weird and wonderful landscapes, chic hotels, sophisticated
cuisine, charming cosmopolitan people, civilized polities - hke a paradise fiee from
original sin."
2.23       It is clear from the above that a 'quality environmente is central to the success of
the tourist industry. If the 'translucent lagoons' were to lose their translucency, if the coral
were to diappear and the beaches lose their virnity, if buildings were to be poorly sited,
intrusive, and ugly - if some or all of these things were to happen, then the country's key
comparative advantage as a tourism destination would be lost.
2.24       The environmental imperative must be to ensure that this image of a pristine
environment is not undermined, so that the tourism sector's economic future can be secured.
And the sector is fiacing a difficult period: although there has been rapid growth in numbers and
revenue, the latter when expressed in real terms is beginning to 'flatten out' as can be seen in
Figures 4 and 5, and this is a reflection in part of the reduction in receipts per bed night which
has occurred since 1987 4 (see Figures 6 and 7). As the industry seeks to reverse the decline
in expenditure per visitor-night, it is essential that its efforts not be undermined by adverse
envronmental experiences.
i/         The pattern is more pronounced When receipts are expressed In dollars, because of the
dwialuston of the Rupee against the dollar.



o 12.
Figure 4. Tourist Recipts (Millions of Constant Rupees) 85.89, Mauritius
3000' 
2000
a|       Tst. Rupees
100-.       .
1964   1985   1986   1987   1988       1989   1990
Year
Figure S. Total tourist Recelpts,millions of constant US$ 8S.89
300,
200,
-w07tu s
~10
1984   195   1988   1987   1988   1989   1990
Year
Sourc   Wodd Dk Apprail Mision Estimates (May 1990)



. 13
Figure 6. Rupees per Tourist Night 85-89, Mauritius
1100
1000
!900       
8w /
700
600    ,  .
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Year
Figure 7. USS per Tourist night 8S89, Mauritius
80,
70 -
60                                              Per night$
40
1984   198    198    1987   l988   1989   1990
Year
Source  Wodd Bank Appial Mbission Estimate (May 1990)



*14-
2.25       Associated with the growth of this sector is the threat to the natural environment
posed by the uncoordinated and inappropriate expansion of tourist facilities and related
activities, both on land and on the sea. There is a growing concern about the following
environmental problems generated by increased tourism: physical poliution generated by the
tourism industry, the encroachment of tourist facilities on adjacent non-tourist space; the
growing lack of public access to beach areas because of physical barriers posed by tourist
facilities; the lack of facilities to cater for the local tourist/leisure industry; the loss of beach
front owing to dredging and other alterations exacerbated by natural erosion and mining activity,
the inappropriate construction of sea-side structures; and the uncontrolled "backyardW and ribbon
development in tourist zones.
2.26       In addition to the implications already noted for agriculture and industry,
environmental investment related directly to the tourism industry must be undertaken, and the
marine and other unique natural assets must be protected. The most notable category in this
regard is investment in sewage treatment and disposal, but there are others. In going for the
quality end of the market, it is important to have things for tourists to do and to see which are
of cultural and/or natural interest, and which provide an attraction other than the traditional
"sea and sand". The development of a Marine Park, based on the coral reefs, and of a National
Park based on the only remaining indigenous forest, are the main opportunities.
F. Households and Consumers
2.27       It is generally the case that, as peoples' incomes increase and as the pressures to
meet immediate needs for food and shelter ease, they begin to take more interest in the long
view, and to have the leisure time and resources to enjoy "nature". At the same time,
increasing levels of education allow a better understanding of natural phenomena, and socio-
economic processes. The combined effect of rising incomes and education is a heightened
awareness of the environment, and its psychic and other benefits, and an interest in
conservation. Consumerism in general, and an interest in the environmental health aspects of
consumption in particular, become more in evidence. Paradoxically, the economic development
which gives rise to this heightened awareness will typically have played a part in reducing the
environmental endowment, and such reduction may well be a catalyst for action.
2.28       Mauritians have experienced a very rapid rise in real per capita GNP. This has
been accompanied by a perceived reduction in environmental quality: streams which in the past
would have yielded fish for dinner no longer do so; beaches to which there was regular access
are no longer readily accessible; litter, which was once a rarity, becomes pervasive. In addition
to these everyday manifestations of environmental degradation, the loss of life which is a
consequence of inadequate environmental management becomes unacceptable. Specifically, the
deaths due to enteritis and other d&arhoeal diseases - which number about 100 annually, and
are caused mainly by inadequate sewage treatment and disposal - become unacceptable. In
addition to the deaths, there are about 4,000 and 27,000 cases of these diseases respectively
treated annually in hospitals and dispensaries.
2.29       The environmental management challenge with regard to households is to: (i)
provide the necessary investment in, and management of sewage and solid waste treatment and
disposal; (ii) provide access to, and, where necessary information about the environment; (iii)



. 1S-
provide testing of foodstuffs so that consumers can be confident that they are healthy, and (iv)
ensure that, in the sectoral policies vis-a-vis agriculture, industry and tourism, the environmental
aspects are managed such that they reinforce the long-term viability of the sector, and protect
the day-to-day environment enjoyed by households.
G. Marine Conservatlon
230        There is no planning framework for marine environmental management in
Mauritius. Development along the coastline takes place without sufficient consideration of its
interaction with and impact on the marine environment. The utilization of marine resources
takes place without concern for the interactions between different components of the marine
environment. No monitoring of the marine environment is carried out and there is insufficient
data for planning.
2.31       There is a widespread belief that the coastal environment of Mauritius is heavily
poRlluted by sewage, agricultural and industrial runoff, effluents and seepage. The
oceanographic characteristics are such that heavy pollution is likely to be a localized problem.
There are no marine water quality data, so the extent of the problem and its effects on
resources cannot be gauged.
2.32       Artisanal fish catches have declined over the past ten years, with an apparent
stabilization at around 1,300 tons annually, but the sustainable yield is not known. The artisanal
fishery is considered to be detrimental to the marine environment through the use of illegal
fishing methods, poor fishing practice and overfishing. The enforcement of existing regulations
for protection of the marine enviromnent (particularly fishing practices, net sizes, spearfishing,
observation of fishing reserve regulations and collecting of coral and shells) can be improved by
providing the responsible bodies with sufficient resources, and mobilizing community support.
2.33       The legislative and regulatory framework is insufficient to protect the marine
environment from pollution from marine sources (e.g., yachts and boat motors) as well as
land-based sources such as sewage seepage, waste dumping and effluent disposal.
2.34       There is a need for educating the public about the need for protection of the
marine environment, and the effects of their activities on it. A need for tertiary graduates in
various aspects of marine science is also foreseen.
2.35       It is generally believed that coral reef ecosystems are being degraded due to
selective removal of coral, shells and fish (both by spearfishing and aquarium collecting).
Concern has also been expressed about plagues of the Crown-of-Thorns starfish and sea
urchins. There is very little data and therefore the extent of the problem or its causes cannot
be gauged.
2.36       Concern has also been expressed about beach erosion, the taking of sand from
beaces and lagoons, and beach creation. There is no data to determine if sand removal from
lagoons is detrimental or indeed beneficial by increasing the depth of the lagoons, thus
increasing circulation. There is no regulation of beach creation.



* 16.
2.37       Reduction of the area of mangrove forests gives rise to concern that this is
resulting in reduced fish stocks, as mangroves act as nursay grounds for fish and shrimps.
2.38       Interactions between the land and water environment, particularly in estuarine
areas and tourist developments, are not being taken into account.
IL Terrestrial Conservation
2.39       Mauritius is famous as the home of the extinct Dodo bird, but it is less well known
that it ranks at the top of a long priority list for the protection of habitat for the conservation
of birds in Africa, and that the efforts which have been undertaken in Mauritius in this regard
comprise a model for other countnes. Properly managed - set in the context of a National Park
- such efforts can be an important contribution to the tourist menu in Mauritius.
2.40       In addition to enriching the quality of the tourist experience, such efforts also
develop advocates all over the world for conservation of the country's remaining vestiges of
habitat and associated flora and fauna. This is important, because the remaining endemic species
of Mauritius are of great potential value to the global community, maintaning them in existence
keeps the options open for future generations to benefit from possible contnbutions of this
unique genetic stock to the development of medicines, expansion of food supply, and basic
research. It is difficult to value this "serendipity' dimension, and the benefits flowing therefrom
are likely to accrue mainly to the world at large rather than to Mauritians per se. But
difficulties in evaluation should not be confused with lack of value; taking the long view, it is
possible that protecting the genetic stock, by keeping species which otherwse would disappear
in existence, wil be the greatest benefit of a successful environmental action program.
2.41       The main threats to natural habitats are:
nvasion by exotic species which outcompete indigenous species. This is
mainly a problem for the indigenous vegetation;
detrimental influence of introduced animals like deer, monkeys, wild pigs,
rats and mice;
-    illegal logging; and
-    clearance of forest for deer ranching.
L Imgl_catjons for Action
2.42       Based on the issues and implications discussed above, a number of specific actions
were identified as being the most economically efficient and technially proficient means of
addressing the problems and opportunities posed by the environment of Mauritius. These
actions comprise the elements of the Environmental Investment Program outlined in the next
chapter.



* 17 -
2.43       These actions are designed to:
(1)  strengthen the country's capability to formulate and implement policy, via
institutional strengthening. This element is an essential prerequisite if any
of the sectoral benefits of environmental protection and improvement are to
be generated;
(2) allocate environmental infrastructure cost-effectively, and direct imvestment in
a way that environmental assets are protected. A Land Management system
- which specifies what is allowable, directs the location of infastructure, and
provides a mechanism for directing development - is central to the
achievement of this objective, the benefits of which accrue to industry,
tourism and the population at large;
(3)  provide sewage disposal and treatment so that key freshwater and coastal
habitats are protected, together with the health of the populace; provide a
central facility for high consumption water industries so that water is used
efficiently, and waste is treated cost-effectively and in an enviromentally
satisfactory manner, and provide a means of safely disposing of toxic waste
and solid waste. The development of charging and cost-recovery systems
which cover costs and encourage envionmently benign behavior is included
in this objective;
(4)  develop the capability to monitor existing environmental quality and trends,
via the development of staffing, laboratories and studies.
(5) identify the implications of existing practice in pesticide and fertilizer use in
agriculture for the envronment, and examine the potential for the
development of more environmental}y benign approaches; and
(6)  conserve the key habitats of the terestrial and marine enironment, both for
their conservation value, and as resources to be enjoyed by visitos The
establishment of a National Park and a Marine Park are central to the
achievement of this objective.
2.44       The above package, formulated over a two year perod, is designed to provide
sound iformation, clean up where problems already exst, prevent the development of new
environmental problems, and ensure that the role of the environment as a key asset for the
fitue economic development of Mauritius is fully recognized and acted upon.



- 18i
mL THE ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROGRM
A. PrOnmuk Ofigln
3.01       The rapid economic growth achieved by Mauritius since 1984 led to a growing
awareness that the country was beginning to experience environmental degradation.
Consequently, the government took steps to appoint a task force to review exsting institutional,
legislative and administrative arrangements for the protection of the environment, identify
weaknsses min the present system, and prepare an Environmental Action Plan. In 1987 the
Bank was asked to assist with this effort and sent a team to Mauritius in early 1988 to assist the
Government in preparing a National E;nironmental Action Plan (NEAO), covering all key
sectors and the country as a whole. Concurrently, the government also mounted an aggressive
information and education campaign, which led to an intense public debate on the environment
and the quality of life.
3.02       In February 1988, the Bank team and the Mauritians completed their study and
recommendations which were incorporated into the NEAP 1. The NEAP was subsequently
endorsed by the Cabinet. A National Environment Commission (NEC) was created, as well as
an Environmental Protection Department (EPD) within the Ministry of Environment and Land
Use. The Committee was to be a high-level coordinating and decision-making body, with the
EPD serving as its secretariat. In response to a popular demand for action in the
enironmental field, the Government organized an i;ternational conference in September 1988,
the Technical Seminar on the Environment, with the assistance of the World Bank and UNDP,
and participation of other bilateral and multilateral agencies and national and international
NOO community. The seminar discussed the key environmental issues and assessed the
technical soundness of the NEAP. Following the seminar, government officials and a Bank
team prepared an Environmental Investment Program (EIP), containing a comprehensive list of
projects in the environmental field, to implement the NEAP.
3.03       A donors' meeting was subsequently held in Paris in January 1989 to solicit
support for the EIP, which is now estimated to cost US$109 million. Approadmately US$85
million were pledged by six donor countries and fourteen international organizations at the
meeting (see Annex 1) with the remaining fimds to come from Government. Since the meeting
the Government has begun staffng the EPD and recruited expatriate technical advisers under a
UNDP technical assistance project, executed by the Bank. A number of measures to protect
the environment were announced, and a comprehensive legal framework drafted. A Project
consisting of high priority components of the EIP, not funded by other donors, which are
prerequisites for the implementation of other components, was identified for Bank funding _/
(see Chapter I). The Bank, at the request of Goverment, has been assisting in donor
coordination to help accelerate the implementation of the EIP.
1/         Issued to the Board on Novuiber 1, 1988 as Grey cover Report (Ho.7264-14AS) entitled
nEconou,ic Development with Envwirarentat Nanaogeent: Strategfes for Nauritius".
fHereinafter, Sank funded etements of the EIP ore referred to as the Project.



-19 -
D mrMn Objective
3.04       The main objecties of the EIP are to: (i) design and establibh policies and an
ivestment strtegy and speciSc proec  to dea with the various oms of pollution and
inapproprate land management; (ii) develop an institutional and legislate famework to ensure
eficient and equitable natual resource management in the future; and (iii) implement a
p _ogra  of enomental monitoring and anasis to pwvide the bass for settig en tal
standards and detmining the viability and costeeof future ivestments.
C. P 
3.05       The EIP is compried of the folowing major components:
(i)    Institutional Strenetheninu  to derlop the neosy famework of
envronmental policy and enabling legslation to provide Maunitius with a
sustainable program of continued development with adequate and
appopriate enironental protection.
(ii)    Land Magement and Tourom: to strengthen the process by which parcels
of land are defined, identified, allocated, trnsferd, subdivided, registered,
valued and taxed to ensure protection of natural resources and historic
architectur
(iii)    Indust. Sewera. and Solid Waste: to implement systems of sewea  and
solid waste colection and dirpcs; ass  the impacts of industrial effluent
(aquatic discharges from texte andl sugar factories) and emsions (air) from
industry on the envwronment and the health of the population.
(iv)    AgjcujJqre. to assess the impacts of pesticide and fertilizer use on the
water resources and health of the population of Mauritius.
(v)    Marine Conservation: to establish marine parks and conservatiri prw-ram
including management plan for marie resouc  and a moni*4-ung pronram
to assess any adverse impacts from deveoment on marne reswes.
(vi)    Te.testrial         to  establish a terretal conservation progam
including the country's first National ParL
The scope and objectives of the projects included in each component of the EIP are descrbed
below (A deied description of the El? is contained in a separate report prepared by a joint
GOM/Wodd Bank Team, entite  E onmental hnvstment Program for Sustnable
Devopmen, September 198:
3.06           b     lnstda s enhm  (T,otal Cos' US$0.6 milin. To address
environmntal issues as presente4 the E? recommends an extensive modification of the
exiing lel and insfituional stm  Presently, the famework is framented and inadequate.



*20X)
Such fragmentation has led to confusion and inefficiency (i.e., in the field of water resources
there are seven different institutions with some authority over the quality of surface and ground
water, yet there is no institution with jurisdiction over the quality of coastal waters).
Consequently, there is a need to establish an institutional capability to coordinate all activities
which affect the environment.
3.07       To assist in this effort, a UNDP-funded project to strengthen Institutions for
Environmental Management began in August 1989, executed by the World Bank. The main
UNDP contribution is for three technical advisers, located in the Environmental Protection
Department (para 5.07). The Environmental Policy Adviser is to assist in drafting a national
environmental policy; the Environmental Legislation Advisor to assist in formulating a complete
and cohesive national framework of legislation for environmental protection and management;
the Environmental Science Advisor to help maintain an adequate scientific basis for GOM
policy on the environment and the institutional and legislative actions taken to implement the
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
3.08       Land Manaaement and Tourism (Total Cost: US$31 million). As a small country
with high population density, land resources are scarce. The need for development of an
overall National Physical Development Plan (NPDP) is stressed in the EIP. A NPDP will be
prepared to guide land use on the island. A new system of land administration will be
established, and the land use planning and development control will be centralized and
supported by adequate resources. The NPDP will define, inter alia. how parcels of land are
identified, specified, allocated, transferred, subdivided, registered, valued and taxed to ensure
protection of natural resources and historic architecture.
3.09       There is also a growing concern about the encroachment of tourism on adjacent
non-tourist space which has resulted in lack of public access to some beach areas and lagoons.
A realistic threshold of tourist development will be established through the regional planning of
tourist zones based on a clearer understanding of the impact of tourism on the country.
3.10       This component of the Environmental Investment Program includes six parts: (i)
the National Physical Development Plan (NPDP) that wil create an overall plan for national
development of industrial, agricultural, commercial, and public lands, and for local development,
i.e., zoning policies; (ii) providing one authority with the necessary power to control national
and local development; (iii) creation of a management system (data base) containing all records
on land use and development for public lands and to the extent that information is available, all
records on privately-owned lands; (iv) and (v) both pertaining to the assessment of
environmental impacts of tourist zone development on the island, and control of that
development to minimize adverse impacts; and (vi) the protection and preservation of historic
districts and structures in Mauritius.
3.11       Industry. Sewerae. and Solid Waste (Total Cost: US$70.1 million). Rapid
economic development on the island has resulted in a proliferation of those industries that
utflize materials which, without adequate treatment, are likely to have a harmful effect on the
environment. These industries (primarily textile dye houses) are located with little regard to
their surround;ng environment. Waste water effluent from industries, hotels, and other sources
is mrely treated effectively, if at all, contributing to groundwater contamination and the
degradation of the lagoons. Solid waste collection is inefficient and incomplete; disposal sites



-a 1 -
are unmanaged dumps. The Government has recently improved the garbage collection system
in Port Louis by contracting this out to the private sector but more needs to be done.
3.12       Legislation to regulate the treatment and disposal of effluent and the location of
industrial plants will be reviewed and strengthened. At the same time further research will be
carried out to study the effects of critical pollutants and to evaluate ways of treating them or
curtailing their use (in agriculture or industry), if possible, through acceptable substitutes. A
comprehensive monitoring system will be developed and linked to enforcement through
substantial expansion of four existing laboratories and the definition of their responsibilites.
Several specific improvements to pollution control will be undertaken as immediate remedies
for the most urgent incidences of environmental pollution.
3.13       This component consists of ten parts, which can be summarized as follows: (i)
Establishment of four environmental laboratories; (ii) creation of an industrial park for the
location of industries with a heavy pollution load; (iii) preparation of a National Sewage Master
Plan; (iv) implementation of urgent infrastructure works in the Northern Tourist Zone; (v)
Preparation of a National Solid Waste Management Plan; (vi) implementation of the most
urgent works (i.e., rehabilitation of existing landfill sites and preparation of new sanitary landfill
sites); and (vi-x) studies on the impact of specific pollutants on the environment or the work
place, incentives or control measures for industry and establishment of a Hazardous Substances
Control Board.
3.14       Agriculture (Total Cost: US$0.5 million}. This sector is historically the pillar of
the economy. There are three principal environmental concerns relating to the agricultural
sector (i) the condition and sustainable management of the agricultural ecosystem; (ii) the
impact of agricultural practices on the water resources and on soil microorganisms; and (iii) the
impact of agricultural practices on human health and the quality of life. The major threat in all
three cases is the high use of fertiizers and pesticides. Although assessments of the extent of
their impact vary, the high use of chemicals in agriculture is of serious concern. There is a
need for education programs for farmers and distnbutors of agricultural chemicals to increase
their awareness of the environmental hazards posed by excessive pesticide and fertilizer use and
to acquaint them with alternative courses of action that can achieve similar results. The
Pesticide Control Board (PCB) and Pesticide Control Act will be used to bring the registration
and regulation of these chemicals under control. Research on the impacts of agricultural
chemical use on the quality of the ground water and surface water will be conducted, as well as
integrated pest management (through organic methods) and the use of more efficient pesticide
application methods.
3.15       Four parts are included under this program component (i) upgrading laboratory
facilities (included in the Industry, Sewerage and Solid Waste component above); (ii) improving
pesticide use and regulation; (iii) integrated pest management and research; and (iv) fertilizer
studies and research.
3.16       Marlne Conservation (lotal Cost: US$1.6 million). On the main island of
Mauritius, the inhabitants and foreign tourists are dependent on the use of the marine
resources, yet there is currently no comprehensive marine environmental management. No
systematic monitoring is carried out, and consequently there is insufficient data available for
planning. However, there is general agreement that parts of the lagoon system around the



-22 -
island are at serious risk from pollution and that marine resources are overxploited. Fish
catches have declined over the last ten years, indicating the importance of sutenghng and
enforcing legislation on harvesting coastal marine life.
3.17       Systematic research wfll be conducted on the condition of the lagoons and reefs
and the dynamics of the ecosystem, with particular reference to fish and rare plant and animal
species and those of special interest to tourists. This will include information on the impact of
development in all sectors (industrial, agricultural, commercial, and urban) on the marine
environment. A marine envionmental management plan and a conservation center will be
established, and urgent conservation measures taken.
3.18       This component contains six parts: (i) preparation of a marine environmental
management plan; (ii) establishment of marine parks; (iii) estabishment of a conservation
center; (iv) investigation of marine pollution; (v) marine ecosystem monitoring; and
(vi) oceanographic data collection.
3.19       Teestral ConWsevon (Total Cost USS52 mi_o ._ Mauritius is of particular
interest to international conservation efforts because of the high number of endemic plants and
animals. However, very little is left of the original flora and fauna, and that which remains is
threatened with extinction. While Mauritius has already lost a number of its endemic birds,
including the famous Dodo, several bird species have been saved from extinction through a
successful program of captive breeding and release, which is recognied internationally as a
model both for scientific techniques and for establishing a working relationship among
Government, scientists, NGOs, and international aid agencies.
3.20       An example of international cooperation was the restoration of Round bsland as
one of the few remaiing elevated tropical islands in the world that is rodent free. The
eradication of both rabbits and goats now allows ecological restoration of this 151 ha. island to
a condition simflar to that of the 19th century, thus permitting the survival of rare flora, fauna
and bids, some of which are endemic only to the island. This effort has been spearheaded by
the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources and the Jersey Wildlife
Preservation Trust with assistance from other governments and NGOs. A ten-year management
plan has been prepared for Round Island with most of its funding to come from NGOs.
Mauritius has also experimented with promoting environmental protection by leasing areas of
importance to conservation to non-governmental organizations. Isle aux Aigrettes, a 25 ha.
island off the southern end of Mauritius, has unique flora and fauna which has been endangered
by illegal woodcutters and the lack of evmronmental management In the mid-1980s,
Government granted the Mauritius Wildlife Appeal Fund, a local NCiO dedicated to
conservation, a 20-year lease for IlWe aux Aigrettes resultig in better environmental
management of the island (see Annex 6).
321        The Black River Gorges area in the western part of Mauritus has the highest
ranking in terms of priority for bird conservation among 75 forests in Arica suveyed by the
International Council for Bird Preservafion in 1988 This area is the only remaining area of
orignal forest in Mauritius and site of successful attempts to save several bird species from
extinction. Selected smaler islands around Mauritius will be managed as sanctbuies for rare
species and tropical island ecosystems. Terrestrial conservation will also provide important
education and recreation opportunities for Mauritians and foreign tourists.



.23-
3.22      The terrestrial conservation part of the Environmental Investment Program
contains four elements: (i) the establishment of the Black River Gorges National Park; (u)
management of nature reserves; (iii) offshore islets management; and (iv) reforestation.
D. Proparm Costs and Financing
3.23      The total cost of the EIP as originally estimated in 1988 and presented at the
Donors meeting in January 1989 amounted to US$65 million. The program costs, however, as
revised during appraisal including contingencies are estimated at US$109 million, with a foreign
exchange component of around US$85 million or 78 percent of the total. The increase in the
program costs are mainly due to additional projects proposed for the Northern Tourist Zone
based on the recommendations of emergency studies (designs and engineering) carried out by
consultants for this area and price increases. A summary program cost is shown in Table 3.1
below (see Annex 2 for detailed costs).
3.24      During the donors meeting held in Paris in January 1989, a total of about US$85
million was committed by various funding agencies in support of the EIP (see Annex 1). Since
then the GOM has finalized funding agreements with several agencies, including the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF), Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation (CFTC), Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (KfW), African Development Fund
(ADF), Overseas Development Administration, U.K (ODA) and the United Nations
Development Programmme (UNDP). Fmalization of funding agreements with other agencies is
pending completion of preparatory studies and preparation of terms of reference for technical
asistance. Table 3.1 also lists the agencies which are expected to fund the various components
of the EIP.



-24 -
YdA* S.It
MIRMTIUS IUVllCIUEU*lt INSIASTI PRMI (aIP) _M1t t t*81c T & FIUItIU A631
........................................................................................
(Us Mitllon)
Ltenu
PRO" CR*01     S                               Loclt    Foreion        Total        Finnlaeg
A.AIUMI1UTIUOML STRUICTMEUIMG
te1ifeet Advfw    Potfcy & Inmtit.                         0.21        0.21         Ul05
Technical Mviiser   l wir. L.leLatiau                      0.11        0.11        U0P
Tehnical Adr1w  - rvir. Scientist                          0.21        0.21        turn
Subratat for A                            0.00        0.9          0.53
B.1W * IAAW*UET A  TMa
I.1etifamt Pleicel 0.wlo w   t Ptn             0.24        1.40         1.71        lo0
H2.Str"isn Laned PlauingW & Control            0.05        1.43         t.48        CUt*
U3.Croui Lne tInfo. At Nurnomn  fot.           0.08        0.33         0.40        0a*
04.RegIot Plurmoi of Toim lZeo
aste m                                                 0.o6        0."6        C=CK
Soutisetm  Za2                                         0.46        0.66        CCC1*
05.1Mistorife  d Architecturat Ceisoetfon
VattliAh Inftitution                      0.01         o.or        0.11        ODA
lasotattfa of C eratfon WMk               0.14        0.14         0.2         Oau
06. nfrastruture fw Northemr towit Ze
OetfeId oesign & *iwvfsfan                0.13         1.1?        1.30        CCCE
olptrattion  of _has I
- voter   ly                           1.22         2.9"        4.16        C
eSiltatio                             2.3         4.18        6.51        CCCV
* Itced                                2.93         4.41        7.34         CMC
- Strm Oruinge                          0.37        0.11        0.48        CCM
SA.totlt for 66                         6.97       12.02       19.19        CMz
u-totel, fo 3                               5         1.5s        2S.09
C.I=USM    MEI Am 5   MID  WMS  01uL
C1.Vnwirmut Lsbretowfa
Contral Inviroutat Lorwtory               0.25         1.64        1.07        1ow
etr    iroennt Leh.rator                   0.18        1.Zl        1.41         18
littb  imiroimwuta L....tor               0.09         0.6         0.92    1
aereAtture 1jwirintet Labertoy            0.03         0.61        O.64        lo
ia*ttotl for cl                       0.53        4.31        44.
C2.Cretfan of lrnutrift Park
Site setection A oeiUt                    0.or         0.40        0.47       1050
l0Wlm    tion of Inustriat Site           3.53        7.s6        11.10        a13
C3.31. do Taw  srguw Sinww  Proj.
Study  d Deoftated Osaig                               0.e5       o0.0e        KfM
I09mitatin of S_Meru  hem                 0.35         1.41        1.77        Cs
C4.1stions Seera-e Metw  Ptsn
Meete Pto Stu*                            0.00         1.10        1.10        A0W
_rg Terif Study                                        0.05        0.05        *f05
lin_1in of  1medate Mak
Setatted Oselop                                      0.05        0.05    n    05
1*_mti1 e  of Civil tbh                 0.37         1.&?        1. A4cg
dlinA   -Ian at ain Projet
De0ti led O    higfr Pw _n. 1                        1.t5        1.43        Af5
ltA ntottn of Civil Marks               4.7 1       18.6        2.56         AfSlIM
CS.Incentvwas for Irct. Potluta. Consr                     0.05         0.05        c
C-.&Bteb.of 3aaezm  ut. Control Bord                       0.31         0.31        slump
Ce.m I= Neti en *ccifdt t                      ew05  0.16  0.16         0.35        NISMSF
CB.Ist o OuStt ad Leded S_       l.            0.11        0.07         0.18        03erSFu
C9.9stiaul Sotfd vte NM   nt Ptm
eelfio of Arami ImiSr  LWi Fil             0.02        0.25        0.25         IO
IWIA- n. of Arest Sa. Lod Pitt            1.56        3.43         5.01         301
ldimailtation of Present  _               0.20         0.30        0.50        16
Oetw Pln ad Dmf10                                      0.20        0.20        00*5
Civit Wot d U.int                         0.47         2.40        3.27        *ImSp'
CIO.Chorecterisetfan of 9er IdmatrT mte                    0.M          0.n         [M3
*A-toat fr C                              12.33       4.O?        56.09



.25S
Table 3.1 eantimu
MAURITIUS ENVIROEITAL IWESTNt PROGRAM (RIP) USMY COSt TAS1 & FINANCIN  ANCIES
............................................................  .......^.....
USS f It tion)
fxtewl
Local     Freign       Total         financig
O.AGRICJLTURE
D1.Pestfeide  ay Laboratory
D2.Itroving Pesticide Use ard Reglatfon         0.02        0.12        0.14         IERD
03.tntegrted Past Maugmnt Reserch               0.04        0.21        0.25   1110
D4.FertfIzers Study and Research                            0.04        0.04         18t0
Sub-total ftr 0                            0.05        0.37        0.43
E.MARINE CONSERVAtION
RI.Narine Etnvirwimmt Mwsg_ mt Pten             0.08        0.24        0.31         1COO/I8n
E2.Estabtishmnt of farine Parkse                0.07        0.31        0.38         IORO
63&.Lagoon Health Study , Pollutfon monit.      0.15        0.27        0.41         ICOD/ISlD
E5.0canographic Data Collectlon                             0.05        0.05         I3tR
16.11arine Cosrvation Center                    0.02        0.15        0.17         JAPAN
Sub-total for E                            0.31        1.00         1.32
P.TERRESTRIAL CONSERVATIto
F1.81aek Rfver National Park                   0.67         1.7n        2.42        13D
F2.Nature Reserves                             0.03         0.03        0.05        (CON)
P3.Offshore Islands                                         0.09        0.09        ODA
K.Reafforestation                               1.00        0.6a        1.67        xfu
Sub-total for F                            1.69        2.53        4.22
TOTAL BASE COST                                 21.90       66.68       80.58
CONTtNGENCIES
Physical                                        0.79         2.90        3.69
Price                                           6.46        1o.2?       16.73
Sub-totat                                  7.25       13.17       20.42
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                              29.15       79.85      109.00
Agencies with Ihich CON has finalized fuditng agreemnts.



.16-
L  Economk Justficato of the Poanm
3.25       The Environmental Investment Program (E1P) will yield a wide range of benefits
in a number of sectors. While the cash costs of the EIP iP estments can be quantified, onily
some of the benefits are quantifiable. Qualitative benefits of the EIl, hower, are also
substantial. The economic analysis detais the full costs of the EIP in ompaison with only
those benefits which can be quantified, particularly in the tourism sector which is etremely
vilnerable to deterioration in the quality of environment in Mauritius.
3.26       For those benefits for which quantitative valuation prved possible, the
conventional "with-without approach was used, whereby the willingness to pay on the part of
Mauritians to have the EIP was estimated where possible and feasible. In practie, this imnolved
estimating 'avoidance costse, i.e., the estimated losses which will accrue if the ElP is not
implemented.
327        The evaluation effort focussed on four benefit categories: the first was tourism,
because it was clear that a high enviromnental quality is central to the tourism product, and it
proved possible to approximate the order of magnitude of losses which could be incurred if
environmental quality declined; the second was health, because this is of considerable
significance for the people of Mauritius, especially those who are poor, and it proved possible
to approximate some of the medical and time costs which would be avoided if the ElP were
underaken; the third was some portion of the multi-sectoral benefits flowing as a result of
more efficient allocation of infastructure, although the estimate is based only on iformed
judgment; the fourth was the willingness to pay to visit the National Park and Marine Park
which are proposed under the EIP.
3.28       Three scenarios were considered for the economic analysi of the ElIP with reprd
to tourism:
Scenario 1: With the EIP, tourism expenditure or receipts grows at an annual
compound rate of 5 percent. Without the EIP such expenditure rmains static at
the (projected) 1993 level.
Scenario 2 With the EIP, tourism expenditure grows at an annual compound rate
of 10 percent. Without the EIP, such expenditure remains static at the (projected)
1993 level.
Scenario 3: With the ElP, tourism expenditure grows at an annual compound rate
of 2 peacent. Without the EIP, such expenditure flls at an annual rate of 7
Percent.
The wilingness to pay to avoid tourism losses is estimated at 30 percent of the tourism
expenditure which is generated, iLe. saved", as a result of the EIP. Capital costs are estimated
at US$109 million, or US$36 miSlion per year for three years, commencing in 1991. Recurrent
or operating costs are estimated at US$11 million per annum, commencing in 1994.
3.29       The quantified non-tourism benefits comprise health savings (reduced hospital and
dispensary costs and reduced loss of earnings - US$1 million annually), more efficient allocation



* 27. 
and use of infrastructure (US$1 milion annually), National Park and Marine Park benefits for
visitors (US$0.5 million annually). The non-tourism benefits total US$ 3 million per annum.
3.30       Quantified benefits and costs are projected to the year 2009. It is assumed that
the benefits wfll not begin to accrue unti 1994, i.e., after the capital expenditure is in place.
The net benefit stream shown below in Table 32 for each of the the scenarios is derived as
follows: For each year, the capital costs (US$36 million for three years) and the
operating/recurrent costs (US$11 million annualy from 1994) are deducted from the total
annual estimated benefits, which consist of tourism related benefits (30 percent of the loss in
expenditure which would accrue if the EIP is not implemented), and other benefits totilling
US$3 million annually (see Annex 3 for details).
Table 3I2  Net Benefit Ptection. Millons of Constant 1989 US dollars
Year           Scenaio 1           Scenaro 2         Scenario 3'
(5%)               (10%C0)           (2%)
1991               -36                 -36               -36
1992               -36                 -36               -36
1993               -36                 -36               -36
1994               - 5                 - 1               - 2
1995               - 1                   6                3
1996                 2                  14                8
1997                 6                  23                13
1998                10                  33                18
1999                1S                  44               23
2000                19                  56                27
2001                24                  69                32
2002                29                  83                36
2003                34                  99                40
2004                39                 116                44
2005                45                 136                47
2006                51                 157                51
2007                58                  180              5S
2008                64                 206                58
2009                71                 233                62
............. .......................
*  Uith EIP, a 21 anmuat growth in tourism receipts; without EIP, a 7X amnst decline in
touris.s receipts from the 1I9 Levet.



-28-
3.31       The internal rate of return for each scenario, over different time periods, is shown
in Table 33 below.
Table 3.3  Internal Rate ot Retur (%
Year of
Terminaon
of Benefits         cenaro I           enario 1.
2003              2.29             17.95              7.55
2005              6.95             21.39             11.02
207               10.01            2355              13.20-
2009              12.08            24.95             14.64
332        Clearly, the results are very sensitive to the scenario assumption and the length of
time that it is assumed the benefits (costs foregone) of the EIP last. However, the maximum
period projected - 16 years, from 1994 to 2009 inclusive -- is considered conservative.
Likewise, there is considerable sensitivity to the expected growth in tourism revenue above the
base line which can be anticipated if the environment is appropriately managed. It appears
reasonable to assume that the internal rate of return is likely to lie in the range of 10 to 20
percent.
3.33       The analysis was conducted as follows: the cash outlays were assumed to represent
the economic costs; the benefits which were quantified were those accruing to the tourism
sector (which would be damaged by a deterioration in the quality of the physical environment),
the health benefits (resulting mainly from the reduction in enteritis and diarrhoeal diseases), the
benefits resulting from the more efficient use of infrastructure, and the benefits yielded to
recreation by the proposed Marine and the National Park. These comprise only a portion of
the benefits, many of which cannot be quantified. Because the estimated rate of return based
on guantified benefits only falls in the range of 10 to 20 percent, it is reasonable to assure that
the overall rate of return is at least 15 percent.
334        The non-quantifiable benefits of the EIP include:
-    the cost savings in agriculture resulting from more efficient use of fertilizers,
the prevention of development of pesticides resistance, resulting in more
cost effective pest control, and better marketing opportunities for food
products;



c 29 
maintenance of imvestment in traditionalr industry because a serious toxic
waste related incident is avoided, and more cost effective waste treatment
and disposal; encouragement of investment in industry which demands a high
quality environment;
reduced costs of treatment of drinking water,
increase in the harvest of fish and shellfish from the lagoons; and
keeping open the options in terms of the potential of the genetic stock of
the unique flora and fauna of Mauritius for the development of medicines,
food production, and basic research.
3.35       It is clear that the EIP will genemate a competitive rate of return. But this
understates its significance for the future of tht Mauritian economy. The significance of the
program can be judged from the likely path of economic development if the EIP is not
implemented:
the tounsm sector wfll ultimately collapse, since growth, or even the existing
volume, is not supportable without the investments envisages;
the country will become increasingly unattractive as a location of the new
wave of clean information led industry, which will not locate in a degraded
environment. The transition to a higher value added, sustainable
manufacturing base will be impeded;
as agriculture diversifies its base, its prospects of success will be damaged if
it must 'carry' a negative environmental image; and
the existing system of allocating and managing infrastructure is economically
inefficient. Economic performance will be enhanced to the extent that such
allocation is improved.
In summary, it would be difficult to envisage the development of Mauritius being sustained in
the absence of the UIP.
F. DonorlLender and Countrv Risk
3.36       The matter of risk arises from two perspectives: from the point of view of the
donors and lenders, who will want to know what can go wrong, and how the probability of this
can be reduced, and from the point of view of Mauritius, which needs to know what are the
risks arising if the EIP does not proceed.



. 30 -
3.37       Donor/Lender R is  There appears to be a very low probability that the objectives
are faulty. If problems arise, they will do so because the implementation measures proposed
are inappropriate, and/or the implementation of same is deficient.
3.38       The selection of implementation measures has evolved as a result of over two
years of intensive debate, investigation and analysis: the measures proposed are the product of
an iterative sifting process and follow implementation mechanisms and procedures adopted
successfully elsewhere; the risk of failure in the selection of measures is very low.
3.39       It is in the implementation of the measures proposed that the risks of failure are
highest. In the areas of technical implementation -- e.g., instalation of laboratories, water and
sewer capacity, the development of solid waste facilities -- problems are unlikely to arise.
However, where conflicts of interest have to be addressed, and specifically where different
agencies have to comply with an overall plan, and private developers have to accept restrictions
on the location, nature and form of their developments, then the risks of failure increase.
These are the circumstances which pertain with regard to land use planning.
3.40       The planners are fully aware of this potential, and are addressing it by ensuring
that the implementation legislation is adequate and appropriate, and that the relevant agencies
are fully involved in plan formulation, so that it reflects their views and capabilities, so that they
in effect have some 'ownership" of same.
3.41       Countra Rislk If Mauritius does not implement the EIP, it is clear that it will
incur substantial costs in terms of destruction of the growth potential of the tourist industry, the
reduction in the quality of life for Mauritians, the loss in potential developments in industry
and agriculture which depend on a high quality environment, the loss of options for the future
with regard to the biotic potential of its endemic species, etc. The matter of risk does not arise
in this either/or situation: the probability is one that these negative outcomes will happen if
appropriate action is not taken.
3.42       The risk issue is relevant for Mauritius when we consider the case of delay: if, for
example, the decision is made to undertake the EIP, but to delay doing so, say for 5 years, what
are the implications? By assigning a range of probabilities to the total estimates of tourism
losses which could be expected over the five-year period, we can get a sense of the implications
(it is assumed that the health and other losses will certainly be incurred if the EIP is delayed).
3.43       The benefits expected at different probabilities are summarized in Table 3.4 for
Scenarios 1 and 2 only. If Mauritius has to borrow US$30 million at 8 percent to "match" other
contributions, the annual interest charges would be US$2.4 million. Even at the lowest
probability shown (0.1) the annual benefits under both scenarios exceed this amount. If the
capital and interest were entirely repaid over five years, the annual repayment would be US$7.S
million. It is clear that at the 0.5 probability, for both scenarios, the benefits over the period
will exceed the outlays. The difference would be even larger if one did not ignore the fact that
(a) interest charges are in nominal terms, while benefits are in real terms; (b) the benefits will
continue to flow long after the five-year period; and (c) the costs of deferring action for five
years would probably lst beyond 1998, as the damage to reputation is likely to continue beyond
the actual duration of the physical problem.



- 31 .
3.44      It can be concluded that the penalty resulting from delay is likely to be high, and
that any benefit accruing as a result of delay, e.g., deferred interest charges, or a lower cost
loan, is likely to be much smaller than the benefits foregone by so doing.
Table 3.4:   tl  ltfo GE        babilltie Ae
S% Scenario .10%g Sceai
Probabilitv                   -. obabillt.
=-US$ milion-                  -    US$ millio-E -
Year
1994       6.0.     4.0      3.0          10.0       6.0      4.0
1995      10.0      6.       4.0          17.0      10.0      4.0
1996      13.0      8.0      4.0          25.0      14.0      5.0
1997      17.0    . 10.0     4.0          34.0      IX0       6.0
1998      21.0     12.       5.0          44.0      23.0   -7.0



- 32 -
IV. THE PRQJECT
A. ProJect Origin and Oblectives
4.01      Since 1988, the Bank has assisted the Government in: (i) putting together a
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) to address major environmental issues. This
sector report "Economic Development with Environmental Management: Strategies for
Mauritius" was distributed to the Bank's Board in November 1988; (ii) reviewing the NEAP
with the public, private and NGO sectors in Mauritius and abroad at a Technical Seminar
funded by Government, the Bank and UNDP in Mauritius in September 1988; (iii) preparing an
Environmental Investment Program (EIP) to implement the environmental strategy outlined in
the NEAP; and (iv) hosting a donors conference in Paris in January 1989 to raise funds for the
EIP. The Government and the donors have also asked the Bank to continue its role as the
coordinating donor assisting the Government with the implementation of the EIP both through
the supervision of the proposed Project and of an ongoing UNDP technical assistance project
for which the Bank is the Executing Agency.
4.02      The objective of the proposed Project, which consists of high priorty components
of the EIP, is to put in place the policy and institutional arrangements necessary to have
physical planning, land use control, infrastructure investment and environmental protection
managed in a coordinated and rational way. The Project would also enable the Government to
take immediate remedial measures to reverse the trend of enviromental degradation and to
develop a system of environmental monitoring and analysis for setting environmental standards
and assessing the viability and cost-effectiveness of future investments.
B. ProLect Components
4.03      The project would include ten components of the EIP. A summary of these
components is presented below:
(1) Preparatlon of National Phvsical Development Plan
Total Cost:          US$2 million
Duration:            2 years
Responsible Aenc.    Ministry of Enviromnent and Land Use
Backgoun: The need for a National Physical Development Plan (NPDP) to
guide the spatial development of the island of Mauritius has been recognized for
many years. Prior to 1970, the lack of socio-economic data and experienced
physical planners prevented progress on the preparation of such a plan. During the
1970s, a major attempt to prepare a comprehensive land use plan for the country
(MATIM) resulted in the compilation of useful data, the definition of medium- and
long-term physical development proposal and suggestions for ways to exercise
development control. The fact that the plan did not contain an assessment of
development prorities with associated economic and financial costs, coupled with



- 33 .
the lack of an appropriate institutional framework for the umplementation of the
proposals, meant that there was still no effective guidance mechanism for spatial
development.
Descrition: The objective is to complete the task of preparing a National Physical
Development Plan and to institutionalize the process of updating such plans within
MELU. The project, dealing with the needs of the island proper, the coastal zone,
and the outer islands including Rodrigues, would create a capacity within MELU to
perform the following functions on a continuous basis:
(a) Creation and up-dating of a spatial information system for public sector
inmestment progams, not only in the main sectors of development
(manufacture, tourism, and agricultural diversification) but also in those
related to the provision of economic and social infrastructure (such as water,
electricity, sewerage, health, education, sports and leisure, transportation,
housing and urban and rural rehabilitation); and
(b)  Definiton of national framework to serve as a basis for the formulation of
detaied zoning policies and development and environmental controi criteria
required for effective monitoring of physical development and environmental
management at local levels.
ImpLementation: The proposed NPDP is to have a planning horizon of 15 years
with Au initial 5-year medium term plan. Using a base year of 1988, the plan
would formulate strategies up to the year 2003. The NPDP wil cover aU of
Mauritius, and will be effected in three stages.
Stage I:        Survey and analysis,
Stage I:        Formulation of alternative NPDP strategies,
Stage Ill        Elaboration of investment strategies and implementation,
programming and budgeting.
The NPDP is being prepared by MEU and Stage I of the study has already
started, concentrating mainly on data collection. The work is carried out by the
NPDP Team set up within the Planning Division of the MELU. The team, which
is accountable to the Chief Town and Country Planning Officer, wil be reinforced
by the recruitment of local professionals and long-term expatriate expert, to be
assisted, if necessary, by short term consultants for specific sectors. Assurances
were obtained from the Government during negotations that the NPDP would be
completed by December 31, 1992.



- 34-
(2) Establishment of Environmental Laboratories
Total Cost:           US$5.9 million
Duration:             12-18 months
Responsible Agengc.    Ministry of Enviroment and Land Use
Badcround: A significant limitation in managing the environment of Mauritius is
the lack of detailed technical data on the quality of water resources, the pollution
control practices of industriaL agricultural, and commercial sectors, the
environmental hazards in or near the work place, and the quality of air at certain
locations. The existing laboratory facilities as well as the data collection and
processing procedures are inadequate to meet the increasingly urgent need for
information to serve research, policy formulation, monitoring and enforcement.
There is currently conflicting legislation which allows overlapping responsibilities
among Government agencies for environmental testing.
Dsd2tion: The wide range of environmental testig required for this purpose is
best carried out in severa laboratories with different functions. Four laboratories
would be established and/or upgraded. The Central Environmental Laboratory
(CEL) would provide coordination and guidance for the three other laboratories:
Water Quality Laboratory (WQL); Health Quality Laboratory (HQL); and
Agricultural Quality Laboratory (AQL), which would conduct environmentally
related testing limited to their areas of expertise.
The Central Environmental Laboratory will provide standard methodology, training,
quality control, information on permissible maximum contaminant levels, and audit
the other laboratories. It may contract with the three other laboratories to
perform environmentally related analyses as required to meet the objectives of the
overall environmental program for Mauritius. A fixed fee per test per sample
would be established in order to provide each subcontract laboratory with
operational and capital expansion funds to support these activities. This would
require a mechanism to charge for these tests and to retain the funds within each
subcontract laboratory to meet recurrent epenses (see Annex 4 for details).
Im&lementatIon. Existing procedures will be strengthened to provide a mandate
for responsibilities of the line agencies in environmental testing as follows: a)
National Environment Commission and the Environmental Protection Department:
Central Environmental Laboratory - regulations for and oversight of all
envircnmental analysis; b) Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Postal
Services: Water Quality Laboratory - all testing of water, waste water and effluent,
c) Ministry of Health and Ministry of Labor Health Quality Laboratory - all
testing of air, noise, radiation, and hazardous materials formation and entry into
physiological substances; and d) Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural
Resources: Agricultural Quality Laboratory - all agriculture-related testing,
including foods, fertilizers, pesticides, and soils. Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that prior to the estabfishment of the CEL, GOM
wfll submit to the Bank its proposals for clearly defining the testing responsibilities
and limitation for each of the laboratories and, fottowing the consultation with the



- 35-
Bank, will implement the agreed divion of responsibilties among them. Except
for the CEL, acquisition of land is not enmvaged for the WQL, HQL and AQL
Regrding the CEL, assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that all formalities for acquisition of land would be completed by June
30, 1991.
(3) Site Selection and Deslgn for an Industrial Parl
Totidal               US$0.78 million
Duration:        2 years
Resuonsible Mencv     Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology
lackond: Industries which produce a high liquid pollution load will either have
to treat their effluent to a high degree in future for safe disposal into water bodies.
such as streams, groundwater, or the sea, or pay tariffs to discharge the pre-
treated effluent into a municipal sewer. Even if the latter option is chosen, pre-
treatment of certain pollutants at the plant may still be required, so that only those
pollutants are discharged into the sewer which can be removed at the municipal
treatment plant. These industries also require large amounts of water, which can
only be provided in certain locations on the island. In particular, such industries
include tetile dyeing, leather tannin6 electro-plating, food processing, dtilling,
and beer brewing jewelry making, etc.
A sizable number of new establishments in these sectors have located in different
parts of the island in recent years, and the demand for more locations is likely to
continue. Locations in sewered areas and where large amounts of water are
available have become very scarce, and waste water treatment to a standard where
it can be discharged into a natural body of water is prohibitively expensive for
many industries. This has created a demand for special sites where the necessary
infrastructure, including water supply, is available and where their waste products,
both liquid and solid, can be safely managed and disposed of in an enviromnentally
acceptable manner.
I)esalqfl: An in-depth study of two alternative sites identified by the GOM's
selection team would be carried out to make a final selection and prepare detailed
designs and tender documents. The proposed study would cover the following
aspects (see Annex 5 for proposed Terms of Reference): present water demand
and specific pollution load from polluting and water-intensive industries; future
demand for factory space from such industries and the cost of alternative sites for
individual firms; further study of the two sites and recommendation for site
selec6on; study of the environmental effect of solid waste and treated effluent
disposal at the two sites; determine the charges needed for cost recovery and to
provide an incentive to firms to locate at the industrial site; once the site has been
selected, preparation of detailed designs for the site and the provision of
infrastruure, including roads, water supply, waste water treatment, drainage, solid
waste disposal toxic waste disposal, and electricity, and preparation of tender
documents for consruction



- 36 -
unplementation: A committee for the selection of a site for the proposed
Industnal Park for Water Intensive and Polluting Activities was establlshtd by
GOM and is chaired by the Ministry of Environment and Land Use (MELU). It is
composed of the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology (MOI), MEDIA,
the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Postal Services (MOE), CWA, the
Meteorological Department, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural
Resources (MAFNR), Ministry of Works (MOW), Ministry of Local Government
(ML), and the Ministry of Health (MOH). The committee will be responsible
for supervising the study and makdng the final site selection in consultation with
other public and private organizations.
Based on the availability of land, water, access roads, and other factors, a study
team appointed by the committee identified two alternative sites in April 1990 for
detailed investigation, one located at Bel Air (eastern part of the island) and the
other Beau Vallon (south-east). At both locations, the land is used for agriculture
and has water sources and transportation available. The land at Beau Vallon is
more valuable for agriculture than at Bel Air, but may offer the possibility of
cheaper waste water treatment, since its proximity to the sea may permit a waste
water outfall beyond the reef
(4) National Solid Waste Mana2ement Plan
Total Cost:          US$7.17 million
Duration             4 years
Responsible Aeenc:    Ministry of Local Government
flgqo-_und: Only a small proportion of the solid waste generated in Mauritius is
collected and dumped at designated sites. The rest is burnt or disposed of
wherever a convenient place can be found. Apart from being unaesthetic and a
health risk, the leachate (liquid) that drains from the solid waste accumulations
over the land surface or into the ground contains a high concentration of nitrates,
toxins and other pollutants. When the leachate mixes with the groundwater, which
may ultimately flow into a lagoon, it can have a significant impact on the
environment. Of immediate concern is the pollution of the main aquifers on the
island, such as that serving Quatre Bornes and Beau Bassn. There is no provision
at present on the island for the disposal of toxic wastes.
The NEAP recommended the preparation of a National Solid Waste Management
Plan to better manage waste disposal in an environmentally safe manner. A
consultant funded by ODA prepared a preliminary report in January 1989, and a
follow-up ODA funded team of consultants is expected to arrive in Mauritius in
late 1990 to prepare a comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan.
In the meantime, major improvements in solid waste collection have been achieved
through handing over the responsibility for waste collection to private contractors
in some areas such as Port Louis. The quantities collected increased several-fold,
and burning and indiscriminate dumping by the population decreased markedly in
these areas.



- 37-
DesaiQlon: The Project would deal with the most urgent needs of waste
management, which is provision for environmentally safe dumping of solid and
toxic wastes. This would include the design and construction of a sanitary land fil
at a new site, emergency rehabilitation and management of the present dumps. A
suitable location for the controUled land fill has been found at Arsenal, which has a
sufficiently thick layer of clay to build an impervious bottom layer for the land fill
and to cover the wastes as they are deposited in a planned manner. The leachate
will be coUlected for treatment before it is either reapplied on the flU or the
resulting effluent discharged into the sea.
Taooc wastes would be disposed of in a designated part of the land fill and could
serve the entire island until additional sites have been prepared. A treatment plant
for the leachate would be built and provisions made to store storm runoff from the
site during a heavy downpour. The site would be fenced in and access controlled.
It would serve the entire northern part of the Island and Port Louis, comprising
about 40 percent of the country's population.
The work to be carried out under this component would consist of the preparation
of detailed designs and tender documents for construction of a new sanitary land
fill Equipment would be provided for the management of the site. Emergency
improvements would also be carried out on 3 to 4 existing dumps in other parts of
the Island (other than Roche Bois where rehabilitation is already under way). The
work would consist of compacting the dumped material, covering it with earth,
stopping the burning, consolidating the area of new filling, fencing and controlled
access.
Imclementatlon: The Ministry of Local Government has recently started the
rehabilitation of the biggest dump in the country, at Roche Bois, to cover the fresh
material, level the site, fence it in, close it down as soon as another site has been
established, and convert it to other use. A site for the new sanitary land fill at
Arsenal has been identified by a consultant as the only feasible one out of three
that were proposed for the northern part of the island. One of the sites proposed
at Mare Seche would be topographically advantageous because it lies in a
depression and is partly waste land, but has virtually no soil on top of the rock,
which is needed to form an impervious bottom layer of the land fill to catch the
leachate. Another proposed site was at Mon Loisir, which would interfere with
the plan to build a new airport at Plaine des Roches eventually, since the birds
which inevitably coDect near the dump would make air traffic unsafe.
(5) Rtesearch on Inteargted Pest Manniement (1PM)
Total Cost            US$0.3 mfllion
Duration:            3 years
Responsibb Aaenci.    Ministry of Agriculture, FLsheries and Natural Resources.



- 38-
B           Mauritius has a long history of biological pest control and at the
same time one of the highest per hectare application rates of pesticides in the
wofld. Most of this is in the form of herbicides in sugarcane production and
insecticides in horticulture, particularly tomatoes, green vegetables, and fruits.
Pesticides are applied with inefficient methods, resulting in heavy contamination of
ground and surace water. On-going development and application of non-chemical
control measures require greater attention and additional posblties which have
shown some success in other countries need to be explored.
Declutto9n: The following five main studies on 1PM would be cauried out.
(a) Development of Botanical Insecticides. Botanical extracts known for their
insecticidal properties and feeding deterrent activity have been used
successfully to control pests. The study would screen local plants to find
those having extracts with insecticidal properties.
(b) Use of Behavior Modifving Chemicals. The study would focus on three
specific species of the fruit fly. It includes training at a foreign institute
familiar with control of these pests with pherormones (4 months).
Techniques for isolation, identification and testing of behavior modifying
chemicals would be studied, followed by field testing and evaluation (4
years).
(c)  Inteerated Control of Tomato Pests. Tomato culture is plagued with
multiple pests in Mauritius, specifica1ly fungal diseases, caterpillars and fuit
fies. Biological control with bacillus thuringensis and other forms of IPM
bave not been used successfully in the field. However, because of the
extensive use of pesticides on tomatoes, there is a need for biological
research on tomato culture which would involve an inventory of local
parasite complexes and breeding. A search and importation of natural
enemies would be conducted followed by a breeding program, then the
natural enemies of tomato pests would be released for field testing and
evaluation.
(d)  Integrated Management of Plutella Xylostella. Braica crop (cabbage) is
attacked by lepidopterous pests. Some means of biological control have
been suggested, but not tried in the field. This study would include the
identification of natural predators against this pest. Once located, they
would be released against a culture of the pest. One month of overseas
training is included in this study. An insectary (100 ml) would be built.
(e)  Use of ULV and Electrostatic Spraving Equipment. This study would test
equipment to apply a pesticide directly to the target of interest. Currently,
back-pack sprayers are used in Mauritius. They are very ineffient in the
volume of pesticide lost during the application process, iLe., chemical that
never reaches the target, but is lost to drift Two types of application
equipment would be purchased and tested: ultra low volume (ULV) and



- 39-
electrostatic sprayers. The equipment would be field tested and the results
evaluated.
Imnieentatlon: These studies will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Natural Resources (MAFNR). MAFNR has established a Technical
Steering Committee to oversee the implementation of the studies. In particular,
the Technical Steering Committee was given the responsibility of (a) bring:g
together scientists and others involved from other sectors to head up and
participate in the varous studies; (b) formulating plans of action and detailed
programs for submission to EPD; (c) monitonag progress in project
implementation; and (d) regularly reporting on progress to EPD. The terms of
reference for the Technical Steering Committee and its composition was confirmed
with Government at negotiations. Establishment of the Technical Steering
Committee would be be a condition of disbursement of the expenditures related to
this component.
(6) Marine Consernation
(a)  Prenaraton of a Marine Environmental Management _an
Total Cost:          US$0.37 million
Duration:            3 years
Responsible Agengr.    Marine Conservation Division, MAFNR
Backalound: Coral reefs almost completely surround the island, creating a sub-
aquatic plateau of about 25 km width. They form calm lagoons, protected bays,
and beautiful coral-line sandy beaches, which are of high scenic value and have
allowed the development of a major tounst industry. The coral reefs and lagoons
together with the nursery grounds of the mangrove areas and estuanes, have
contributed immensely to the development of artisanal fishery with some 2,700
professional fisherman. The average fish production from this ecosystem is 1,300
tons per annum. Some 15,000 aquarium fish are exported annually. These delicate
ecosystems are threatened by a variety of environmental hazards, the impact of
which is only vaguely understood.
Desciption: The Marine Environmental Management Plan (MEMP) would classif
the individual components of the marine environment of Mauritius (reefs, lagoons,
mangroves, channels, etc.) according to a scheme based on the need for sustainable
exploitation. A series of zones would be developed, such as for scientific research,
preservation, fishery reserves, manne parks or diving parks, mineral extraction
zones, etc. The objectives of each zone are to be determined and the activities
permitted in each zone drawn up. The zoning plan would consist of a booklet and
a series of maps on which the zones are clearly marked and the activities
permitted in each zone clearly spelled out. This approach is based on the scheme
developed by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority in Australia.
Approprate enforcement mechanisms would be established to regulate the use of
areas specified in the zoning plan.



- 40-
Implementatfon: A technical adviser, specialized in Tropical Marine Environmental
Planning and Management, would be required for a period of 18 months to work
within the Marine Conservation Division. The adviser's duties would include:
(a) to develop, jointly with Mauritian counterparts and in consultation with
Government, priate bodies, NGOs, users and the public in general, the
aims, objectives and framework of the Marine Environmental Management
Plan (MEMP) for the entire coastal waters of the State of Mauritius;
(b) to review and assess information, obtain what other data is required, to
develop the MEMP; to prepare the actual zoning plan for the marine
environment of Mauritius, and management guidelines for each zone; to
ensure that the MEMP is both an administratively workable document and
comprehensible by the general public.
The project would be carried out within the Marine Conservation Division and two
Mauritian specialists would be assigned to work with the technical advisers. In
addition to training the Mauritian counterparts on the job, the technical adviser
would recommend appropriate formal training program in the following fields: (1)
ground-truthing methodologies; (2) aerial photography and remote sensing, (3)
documents interpretation; (4) data analysis; and (5) preparation of a management
plan.
(b) Establishment of Marine Parks
Total Cost:           US$0.47 million
Duration:             3 years
nimlementine Agencv.  Marine Conservation Division, MAFNR
Bacdmround: Although scientific data are lacking, there is a general consensus that
the reefs around Mauritius are degrading in many areas. The coral reefs are of
the utmost importance for a variety of reasons. These reasons are spelled out in
the justification for the marine management plan. One way to preserve the
essential functions of the reef is by creating marine parks. A marine park caters
to the needs of tourism, scientific research, education, preseration of biodiversity
and ecosystem diversity, while it is also an area from which replenishment of fish
stucks takes place.
tlesrudtlon: Since 1974 several sites have been proposed as potential marine
parks in view of their aesthetic and biological values. The most suitable and
feasible site seems to be the Baie de l'Arsenal, just north of Port Louis, as it
harbors weil preserved coastal marine ecosystems. The park and its eefs are
easily and safely accessible and close enough to several major tourist hotels to
attract a good number of diving tourists. Baie de l'Arsenal has much of geological
interest, including different rock formations (basalt, beach rock, raised beach and
raised reef), three types of beaches, and the dunes at Pointe aux Piments. A
second area which has been proposed as a manne park and which has good



- 41 -
potential is Blue Baie, near Mahebourg. Here, a well developed reef is found
adjacent to major tourist hotels which have expressed an interest in a marine park.
In addition, a number of reserves in the lagoons and along the outer reefs wil be
established.
In-depth surveys would be carried out for the potential sites, resulting in a
categorization of sites as to their general state, the coral diversity, the health of
such corals, the diversity and abundance of associated plants and animals. The
sites will then be classified into different categories for declaration as national
marine parks, nature preserves, and reserves for scientific research, recolonizable
zones, etc. Each site would be demarcated by means of buoys, and moorings will
be placed to prevent anchor damage from boats. For the marine parks, a patrol
boat would be acquired and a visitor center established.
Implementation: The participati .n of the private sector in establishing and
managing the marine parks and reserves will be sought to the maximum extent
possible. Already several hotc have expressed an interest in such parks or
reserves in their vicinity. Bou,dets, pamphlets and photographs will be prepared
for each delimited zone for distribution. Legislation for the protection of marine
parks will be drawn up and enforcement will be carried out by park wardens,
assisted by the National Coast Guard.
The technical adviser for the Marine Environmental Management Plan Project
would assist in this project. Detailed survey of potential sites would be carried out
by the Scientific Diving Unit of the Marine Conservation Division. An appropriate
training program would be prepared and implemented for the marine parks
manager and park wardens.
(c) Investieatlon of Marine Estuarine Pollution & Marine Ecosmstem Monitourin
Total Cost            $0.51 million
Duration:             3 years
Responsible Agenc.    Marine Conservation Division, MAFNR
lBaclksrund: It is commonly perceived that the lagoonal, reef and estuarine
ecosystems are seriously threatened by pollution from agriculture, industry,
municipal waste and solid waste disposal. There is visual evidence of severe
pollution in estuaries from industrial -ones, and also evidence of pollution around
outfalls adjacent to populated areas and areas of dense tourism development. No
basic data exist however on levels of pollutants in the marine environment, and no
measurements of pollutants even in the obviously effected areas. Such data are
urgently needed to assess the impacts of pollution on the marine environment and
to develop appropriate management provisions. Furthermore, the explosive
proliferation of sea urchins and the Crown of Thorns starfish has been observed as
well as widespread disappearance of corals in the lagoons. These reports are
based on sample data and incidental observation, while real trends can only be
established by systematic observation over longer periods of time.



- 42-
Descrintlon: An investigation of Marine Estuarine Pollution is to determine the
long-term impact of pollutants and other factots, such as natural predators,
cyclones, and fishing, on the lagoons and the reef. A monitoring program to
determine basic parameters of the lagoon and reef habitats would be established in
order to detect changes which might occur. Phase I of the investigation of marine
estuarine pollution, which would run for six months, would be intensrve, with the
aim of identifying the nature, extent and location of the problem, and providing
recommendations for incorporation in the Marine Environmental Management
Plan and in terrestrial water and waste management plans. Phase U, which woud
run for the remaining two and a half years, would aim to further investigate
problem areas identified in Phase I and to continue the collection of monitoring
data so that seasonal variations and trends can be identified.
For Marine Ecosystem Monitoring, transects would be laid across the lagoon and
reef to detect changes in the lagoon and reef ecosystems. The monitoring program
would continue indefinitely. However, for the purpose of this project, a three year
time period is deemed sufficient to detect trends and changes and to determine the
frequency of monitoring.
lmplementation: A consultant for marine pollution is required for a period of
three months - two months for Phase I and one month for Phase H. In addition, a
consultant for marine ecosystem monitoring is required for a period of eight
months - four months in the first year to start the program and train counterparts
to be followed by two visits by the consultants over the next two years. Four
Mauritian counterpart staff would be assigned to work with the consultants.
(d) OceanoMraphlc Data Co{lection
Total Cost:           $0.06 million
Duradon:              2 years
Responsible ALencv    Marine Conservation Division, MAFNR
Paclround: Information on the physical oceanography of the waters around
Mauritius is required for marine environmental management and coastal
development. Wave data, particularly on large waves associated with cyclones, and
tidal data are needed for beach development, beach protection, disaster mitigation,
public safety and ecowstem management. Current data are needed for ree,
lagoon and estuarine areas, both for input to the Environmental Management Plan
and for predicting the residence time and movement of pollutants in the coastal
zone.
DesUiotlon: This component has three separate parts relating to waves, tides and
currents: (a) Waves. A Datawell wave rider buoy would be procured and
deployed permanently off Mahebourg at a depth of 50m to continuously record the
wave characteristics in this region. Statistical parameters such as significant wave
height. maximum wave height, zero crossing wave period and spectral density
would be evaluated. Based on the analysis, expected waves for different return



- 43.
penods would be computedL A model would be devloped to hindcast waves for a
given synoptic situation and for a cyclone crosing the coast of Mauritius. Data
would be computed us8ig existing facilities at the Meteorological Service; (b) -ke*
New mountings are needed for the exsting tide gauge network Data would be
evaluated using existing filities; and (c) C   A program of current
measurements would be canied out on transects across the lagoon, as wel as in
channels, estuaries and to a limited extent on the outer face of the reef. The
ptogram would measure changes in current speed and dicion at various depth
over different tidal cycles and under varyig meteorological conditions. Maps
would be produced showing oveall current pattero around Mauritius and a report
prepard relating current pattems to oceanographic and meteorological
phenomena.
ImlemelltatIOu. The wave and tide components would be caried out within the
existing Meteorologial Serice based at Plaisance Airport, with the support of the
University of Mauritius, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources
and the Mauritius Marine Authority. The survey of currents would be conducted
by the Marine Conservation Division.
(7) CreatIon of the Black Riv  i Gorms Natonal Park
Total Cost.          US$2.97 million
Duration:             4 years
Res Bnsb  Aaec,.    Terrestrial Conservation Unit, MAFNR
Backund: The only area of original forest remaining in Mauritius, home to a
number of endangered species of birds and flora, is in the Black River Gorges and
surroundings. This area has the highest priority for bird conservation in all of
Afica, ranlking first among 75 forested areas surveyed in 1988 by the International
Council for Bird Preservation. It has been the site for the last 1 years of a
program of preservation of eremely rare, endangered endemic species, especially
the Mauritan kest, pink pigeon, and the echo parakeet. Conservation of natve
flora and the habitat for these endangered birds is also impornt, as these habitats
are badly degaded through destructive activities and through invasion by highly
competitive exDtic species.
Apart from its paramount importance for conservation, the area possesses high
scenic value and is one of the few places inland where people can enjoy nature. It
offers opportunities for environmental education and recreation, as well as
expanding the tourism base of the country. Additional benefits occur through
watershed management and research. Presently the inner gorges area is closed to
most Mauritians and tourists as it is leased for deer farming and hunting.
In 1973, natural forest in Black River, an important habitat area for birds, was cut
down to establish a pine platation for forestry production. Tlhs eort was funded
by the Gonment and the Wodd Bank under the Mauritius Integrated Rumal
Development Project (Cr.0419). The destruction of this habitat was an important



- 44-
caus- for the population decline of endangered birds such as the pink pigeon, the
echo parakeet and the fody as well as the extinction of several plant species. The
proposed Project would include this area in the Black River Gorges National Park
and would attempt to reestablish a habitat conducive to conservation of native
species.
Desciption: The Project would facilitate the establishment of the Black River
Gorges National Park as an area of natural and international importance for
conservation of endangered species, many of which are found only on the island of
Mauritius. Some areas of the park would be limited to research and conservation
due to their critical and sensitive nature. Other areas, especially within the gorges,
would be made available for more extensive use by the general public for
recreation, education, and tourism. The rim of the gorges would continue to be
used for scenic viewing and nature study.
To meet the conservation objectives, the Project would fund a number of resource
management goals which are extremely important to ecosystems and species
preservation and restoration. In particular the project would fund control
measures for exotic plants and animals which are devastating indigenous species
and communities.
To meet educational, recreationaL and tourism objectives, appropriate public
facities would be established for administration, resources management, education,
tourism, and research. Adequate staffing to manage the park would be provided
and supported by training in park management.
To meet the research objectives, the Project would fund development of an
expanded captive breeding center, facilities for field researchers, and equipment to
continue ongoing research activities. International and Mauritian NGOs are
committed to continuing their very substantial efforts in achieving this goal as well.
ImpIementatlon: This component would be implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries, and Natural Resources (MAFNR) through Terrestrial
Conservation Unit which would be strengthened through technical assistance and
training. Park personnel positions would be funded, supplemented by scientists,
equipment, and materials from national NGOs (such as the Mauritian Wildlife
Appeal Fund) and from international NGOs (such as the Jersey Trust for Wildlife
Preservation and the World Wlddlife Fund). The present tripartite cooperation
among Government, local scientists and NGOs, and international organizations,
which has been very successful, would be continued through the creation of a
Parks Advisory Board to meet regularly as necessary for the purpose of evaluating
progress on implementation. Assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that the Board would be established by June 30, 1991 at the
latest. After completion of implementation, the Board would continue to have a
strong influence on park management, policies, and funding. Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that the Black River Gorges
National Park would be established by December 31, 1991 at the latest, as well as



* 45 -
a body to manage the Park which shall have qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers.
C. Protect Cost
4.04      The total cost of the Project including contingencies is estimated at US$20.5
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$16.1 million or 78 percent of the total. A
breakdown by component is shown in Table 4.1. The total Project cost of US$20.5 million
includes physical and price contingencies and taxes. Without taxes total project costs are
estimated at US$193 million. Prices are at mid-1990 levels and are based on recently received
bids and final design cost estimates. Physical contigencies are set at 5 percent of civil works
and equipment, amounting to US$0.63 million. Price contingencies of US$3.1 million,
amounting to 15.1 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies, are based on projected local
and international inflation rates. Local taxes on the net earnings of contractors and on goods
not directly imported for this Project are estimated at US$1.2 milion. Government has stated
that goods imported for the Project will be duty free. The detailed costs are shown in Annex 7.
D. Financdng Plan
4.05      The proposed Bank loan of US$12.37 million equivalent would finance about 64
percent of total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 60 percent including taxes. The loan would be
repayable over 17 years, including a five-year grace period, and would bear interest at the
Bankes standard variable rate. The Government of Mauritius would be the borrower. In
addition, the International Centre for Ocean Development (ICOD) is expected to provide
US$400,000 for consultancy, technical assistance and training for the Marine Conservation
projects. Effectiveness of the ICOD grant would be a condition of disbursement for the
expenses related to the Project components financed by ICOD. Counterpart funds would be
provided by GOM. To enable the Government to prepare for start-up activities, project
expenditures incurred between June 1, 1990 and the date of signing would be eligible for
retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$500,000 or 4 percent of the loan amount. The
financing plan is presented in Table 42.



-46-
Table 4.1:
(US$  )mon
Forig
as % of
LOWI       Eaoxr    Total    Total
(1) Ntioat Physic  Deveopmet Plan      024         L47       1.71    86.2
(2) Environental Laboratories          0.53        431       4.84    89.0
(3) Industria Pari'
-Desigm and En&gneering             0.07        0.60     067   90.0
(4) Solid Wase Mangement Ptan:
-Desp of Sanitary Landfi Site       0.02    :     Z      025    90.5
-Implementation of LdfIM:           1.58        3.43 -    5.01   6M5
-Rhailikation of Preset Dump        0.20 0.30'    0.S            60.0
Sb-total or ():                       1           3.6       S.76:   68.7
(5) integratd N   Mt & Rmesech        0.    ..04   021       025    853
(6) Marine                  --atio     0      .    0A:;X  1.15    74.
(7) Bblc Rie Gors  aiol Park           0.          175       2.42    71
Tota                                  3.64          I" .:         7M
(a) Physi: :: :; -: - : l   .         0.13  :     0:.t49    0.63    7U8
(b)0Pru .                             08 -43:               3.10    7EL2
:  .   '': v'-                    -   ''-'
sib''k                             0 .8    52.92     .3.73    7
4A4'       16.8        3  :: 783



47-
Table 4.2: Finaneing Plan
-  -   -       %of
- Local  Foreicn   Total    Total
Goverment of Mauritius              4.45     331      7,76    38
World Bank                          0.00    1237    1237      60
International Centre for Ocean
Development (ICOD)                         0.40     0.404     2
Total                              4.45    16.08   .20.53    100
E. Procurement
4.06       Procurement of laboratory and earth moving equipment needed to operate the
sanitary land fill would be done on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Civil
works contracts for the construction of three environmental laboratories would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. There is
sufficient capacity in Mauritius for local contractors and supply agents to assure adequate
competition for LCB, which requires at least three proposals from qualified bidders per
contract. A good number of international firms are represented in Mauritius and have therebv
the opportunity to participate in LCB.
4.07       Contracts for various small buildings, access roads, and other minor civil works
would be awarded on the basis of LCB, up to a total value of US$1.59 million. Contracts of
maximum US$100,000 each for civil works to be built at different locations on the island would
be awarded on the basis of local shopping, with at least three quotations, up to a total value of
$280,000.
4.08       Minor equipment (consisting of vehicles, boats, computers, office equipment, etc.)
is needed for five project components under the implementation responsibility of four different
Government agencies and would therefore be procured through a variety of small orders, using
the method of international or local shopping. Each of these contracts will have a value of not
more than $00,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.85 million.
4.09       Studies, design and supervision will be carried out by consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
World Bank. They will be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures of the
World Bank on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank



- 48-
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. For technical assistance and for
training, GOM will employ specialist and consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants.
4.10      GOM has extensive experience with procurement procedures. Contractors for civil
works and goods would be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory
to .he World Bank as laid down in the Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits. LCB will include local advertising, opening of bids in public, clarity of evaluation
criteria in tender documents, award to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, and non-
exclusion of foreign bidders from the procedure. Each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more is subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
4.11      A summary of the procurement airangements is shown in Table 4.3. Out of the
total estimated Project cost, except for the construction of a land fill which would be entirely
financed by GOM, about 34 percent would be procured through ICB, 20 percent through LCB,
13 percent through international or local shopping, and 33 percent through other procurement
arrangements.



- 49-
Table 43:
Mauritius Environmental Monitoring Develonment Proiect
Procurement Arrangements"
(US$ million)
Intl. o
Lou
PEocurement Element             ICB         LCB   Shopning    0jL   Total
Construction of Laboratories                1.62                         1.62
(0.97)                       (0.97)
Laboratory Equipment             4.00                                    4.00
(4.00)                                  (4.00)
Construction of Land Fill                   4.62                         4.62
(0.00)                       (0.00)
Minor Civil Works                           1.59     0.28                1.87
(0.91)   (0.20)              (1.11)
Earth Movers & Other Equipment  1.36                                     1.36
for Land Fill                  (1.36)                                  (1.36)
Vehicles, Boats, Office                              1.85                1.85
Equipment, etc.                                    (1.12)              (1.12)
Technical Assistance,
Consulting Services                                          4.66       4.66
and Traininge'                                               (3.81)    (381)
Lal Staffing, etc.                                             0.55      0.55
(0.00)    (0.00)
TOTAL                            5.36       7.83     2.13      5.21     20.53
(5.36)    (1.88)   (132)    (3.81)   (12.37)
I/   Figures in parentheses are amount financed by IBRO.
3/   According to IBRO Guideltnes for the Use of Consultants (August 1981) except
for consulting/training estimated at US$400,000 to be financed by ICO.



so,
F. Dibhu_bO
4.12      The proposed IBRD loan of $12.37 million would be disbuzued as follows:
a)   60 percent of total expenditure for ci  works,
b)   100 percent of foreign expenditure and 85 percent of local expendiue for
equipment, materials and supplies, and
c)   85 percent of local expenditure for services of consultants resident in
Mauritius and 100 percent of foreign expenditure for other consulting
services, technil assistance and training.
4.13      The Schedule of Estimated Disbursements is shown in Table 4.4 Disbursements
would be made against standard IBRD documentation, except for payments for contrts valued
at less than US$25,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed on the basis of statements of
exenditure (SOE). To the extent possible, all withdrawal applications should be aggregated to
not less than US$25,000. Snpporting documents for amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs
would be held in a central location and made available for review by auditors and visiting Barnk
missions.



- 51-
Table 4.4   imtj
(US$ Mull=o)
Bank FY and         lsbursed:                 Cumulative
QurE lnding     in Cerm             Aoupt        % Of Tgi
l99 Maw. 311, l!     009                   0.09             0.7
Jun.  30991 .    0.09                   011
1992 ep. 30,A491     06                    0.44         -
Der. 31, 1991     0.27                  0.71:            5.7
Mar. 31, 1992     0.53                  1.24            10.0
Jun 30; 19        0.3                   1.77            143
13 Sep, 30, 1992     0.70                  2.47            20.0
Dc. 31, 1992      0.71                  3.18            25.7
Mar. 3t,  1993    .97                   4.15            33.5
Jun. 31993        0.97                  5.12            41.4
&4 p.3, k  993       08                    6.00            485
:. 31,1993        0.89                  6.              S5.7
Ma. 31, 1994      Om8                   7.77'           62 
Jun.3 0 1994     0O.9                   8.66            70.0
1995 Sep. 30, 1994    1.06                 9.72            786
-Dc. 31, 1994     1.06                 10.78           87.1
Mar. 31, 1995     Om                   11s5             936
Jun. 30,195        0.79                  237            100.0
losig Date: June 30, 1996



- 52 -
G. Accountina Auditin and Retln Reguirements
4.14      Project accounts will be maintained by the EPD/MELU with separate accounts for
each component and wil be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. The
MELU's accounts are audited regularly by Govemnment auditors under the supevision of the
Director of Audit who submits his report to the Parliament. AU Project accounts will be
audited by the Director of Audit according to generally accepted accounting procedures and will
include a separate opinion on statements of expenditure. AssuranceS were obtained during
negotiations that Government wil submit certified copies of such accounts and annual Audit
Reports to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.15      The Borrower wiUl prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be submitted to
IBRD not later than six months after the closing date of the Loan.
HE Protect Imnlementation and Sune_vislon
4.16      As detailed in Chapter II, the different components of the proposed Project will
be implemented by various Ministries, with overall coordination being provided by the
EPDIMELU. In particular, the EPD will be responsible for (i) preparation of quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the EIP; (ii) maintenance and compilation of Project
accounts; (iii) coordinating procurement of goods and services; and (iv) maintaining liaison with
various funding agencies involved in the funding various components of the EIP.
4.17      The Project covers a four-year period. The expected implementation schedule for
major activities of each component of the EIP was agreed with the Government and is shown in
Annex & The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
4.18      A project supervision plan is presented in Annex 9. Total Bank staff inputs for
supervision is estimated at 70 weeks.



- S3 -
V. INSIUTONAL FRAMEWORK AND MAIN AGENCIES
5.01      Mauritus' existing institutional and legislative arrangements for environmental
management and protection have developed sector by sector on an incremental basis over a
long period, and Governmental recognition that environmental issues are basic to economic
development and that they cut across all sectors is very recent. New responsibilities and
organizations were gradually introduced in response to changing needs and prionties, usually in
addition to rather than in replacement of existing ones. This has resulted in a complex set of
relationships with a considerable degree of shared responsibilities and functions which have
undermined accountability. Based on the recommendations of the National Enviromnental
Acton Plan (NEAP), the Government has already taken the first major step in strengthening
the institutional framework with the establishment of the National Environment Commission
(NEC) chaired by the Prime Minister and of an Environmental Protection Department (EPD)
within the Ministry of Environment and Land Use.
A. National Environment Commission (NEC)
5.02      As a principal policy and decision making body for environment protecdon and
natural resources management, the NEC sets national goals and reviews and approves: (i) a
NEAP; (ii) major changes in existing policies or proposed new policies; (iii) major amendments
to existing laws or proposed new laws; and (iv) environmental standards. In addition, the NEC
also provides the necessary oversight and coordination of Government actions. In particular, it
reviews on a regular basis progress made by individual Ministries/Departments in the
implementation of the NEAP and resolves inter-sectoral issues.
5.03      The NEC has already approved a National Envronmental Action Plan (prepared
with the assistance of the Bank) and a White Paper on National Enviromental Policy (in
consultation with the Bank). The White Paper on the National Environmental Policy was also
approved by the cabinet in June 1990. In addition to fully endorsing the NEAP, the White
Paper on the National Environmental Polcy also defines the institutional framework vis a vis
the functions of the NEC and the EPD relating to environmental protection and natural
resources management.
B. Environmental Protection Depnrtment (EPD)
Mnistrsv of Environment and Land Use (MELU).
5.04      The Government's plan for the organization of the EPD is to leave the existing
environmental functions and responsibilities largely where they are at present in the other
ministries and departments, but to carry out necessary streamlining and strengthening and some
of the specific changes as recommended in the National Environmental Action Plan. In
addition to serving as the NEC's secretariat the EPD would assume cross sectoral review,
enforcement and oversight functions, along with appropriate additional environmental protection
and management functions which are not now covered by exsting bodies. In particular, EPD
would: (i) formulate govenment goals and strategies for enviromnental protection and natural
resources management; (ii) coordinate and monitor implementation of the NEAP; (iii) provide



.54 .
advice and assistance to other Ministries in modifying exdsting policies or developing new
policies; (iv) provide support in amending existing legilation and defining needS for new
legislaton; and (v) review and/or formulate all emironmental standards for NEC consieration
In addition, a series of functions not being carried out by other ministries wIll be assigned to
EPD. These include (i) evaluation of environmental implications of major economic and
sectoral policies; (ii) identification and evaluation of options for pollution abatement and
providing technical advice on pollution control practices; (iii) formulation of priorities and
coordination of a government-wide program of research on critical envnmenal and natural
resource management issues and (iv) preparation and pubLicaton of an overall asessment of
the current state of the eAvironment and emerging trends.
5.05      As per the recommendations of the NEAP, all of the above functions are to be
organized and carried out by five main units within the EPD:
o Environmental Assessment
o Standards Formulation and Review
o Enforcement
o Policy and Planning
o Public Information and External Relations
5.06      Presently, while recruitment of staff is in progress, the above functions are grouped
within three units in the Department. The present and proposed organizational structre of
EPD is shown in Annex 10. Current staffing of the department consists of the Director
(appointed in June 1990), Deputy Director, Implementation Adviser, two Divisional Offiecs and
12 officers (6 Environmental and 6 Technical). Although, the present level of staffing is
considered inadequate for the department to function effectvely, the Ministry of Environment
and Land Use is in the process of recruiting additional staff for the Department. Asurances
were obtained from Government during negotiations that MELU will appoint the necessay
additional officers and administrative staff in EPD.
5.07      Under the Institutional Strengthening component of the Environmental Investment
Progam (EIP), three technical advisers are being provided to EPD/MEU to help establish
environmental policies, legislation, environment2l standards and institutions. Thi two-year
program of technical assistance is funded under a UNDP Project (Institutions for Environmental
Management - MARJ89/009) with the Bank as the executing agency. Two of the three
Technical Advie  (Policy and Institutions; Legislatve) joined the EPD in February 1990 and
the third Adviser (Scientific) joined in September 1990. Considerable progress has already been
achieved, with the assistance of the Advisers, in the preparation and adoption of a National
Environmental Policy and an Environmental Protection Act. The National Environmental Policy
was adopted by Government in June 1990 and a draft Emironmental Protection Act was
approved in principle by the Cabinet in August 1990. CDmments are now being solicited fiom
vaious sector ministries, NGOs and other interested organizations before the act is sent to the
Solicitor General and to Parliament for final consideration.



.55S
C   wfomenta Counci of Mauritlus fEf )
5.08       The National Envirnmental Policy, recenty adopted by the Govenment, cals for
the establishment of an Envirnmental Council of Mauritius, with representative membership
from Industry, NGOs, union, educational institutions, art societies, cultural and religious
groups, media and political parties. The ECM is to be constituted as an advisory body to the
Miister of Housing, Lands and the Evironment. Through the ECM effort shal be made to
reach national consensus on all environmental and natural resources management issues. The
proposal for estab nt of ECM is consistent with the recommendations of the NEAP.
D. Non-Governmenl Orizatlons (NGOs)
5.09       Nongovernment groups with interest in environmental issues are only just emerging
in Maurtius. However, recently as a result of growing public awareness of environmental issues,
seveal new (ool based) NMOs have been formed. Non-governmental groups of relevance to
the environment in Mauritius are of three types (i) overseas ecological groups working in
Mmuritius; (ii) local economic interest groups, such as the Hotel and Restaurant Association
(AHRIM); and (ih) local environmental/wildlife groups such as SPACE, FOE (Friends of the
Environment), MWCS (Mauritius Wildlife Conservation Society), MMCS (Mauritius Marine
Cnservation Society) and MAUDESCO (Mauritius Council for Development Environmental
Studies and Conservation). Overseas groups such as World Widlife Fund (WWF),
International Centre for Protection of Birds (ICBP) and Jersey Wildlife Prefseration Trust
(JWPT) have had an important and technicaly effective role in Mauridus.
5.10            The NGOs (both local and international) have actively participated in the
formulation of the NEAP and the EIP. In particular, their contnrbutions in the Marine and
Terrestrial Conservation aspects of the NEA have been pivotal in helping establish policy
prionties and investment strateg in these sectors. Representative of the JWPFr and WWF
participted in the appraisal of the Black River Gorges National Park component of the
proposed project. Representatives of these NGOs were also included in the Steering
Committee appointed by the Goernment (within MAFNR) to assist and advise in the
implementation of this component.



56-
VL BENEFTIS ECONOMIC JlSTIlCATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01       The Project comprises core elements of the Enviromnental lnv.estment Program;
the elements comprise prerequisites, without which the rest of the EIP cannot succeed. Thus
the overall benefits attnbutable to the EIP are attnbutable also to the Project.
6.02       Benefits which can be attnbuted specifically to the Project inclu&dJ: cost-effective
allocation of environmentally related infrastructural imvestment; environmentally appropriate
location of new investment; environmental quality control; treatment of industrial, including
toxic waste; improved disposal of solid waste; development of cheaper, more environmentally
benign forms of pest control for agriculture; the conservation of the only area of original
indigenous forest remaining in Mauritius, and the associated flora and fauna, with the options
which the conservation of this genetic stock keeps open for the future in terms of pc:.'rtial
development of medicines, food production, and basic research, and the recreational
opportunities provided by the National Park; conservation of the Marine environment, and the
development of recreation opportunities via the Marine Parks.
B. :conomic Justificaton
6.03       A high quality environment is important for the future sustained development of
the main sectors of the Mauritian economy. This is especially clear in the case of tourism,
where environmental quality is central to the country's attractiveness and comparative advantage;
the enriching and diversification of the tourist menu to embrace more than sea and sand is also
important in distinguishing the tourist product, and lengthening visitor stay.
6.04       Experience in other countries indicates that the expansion potential of existing
industry would suffer if there was a serious toxic waste-related incident, because of the negative
public reaction resulting therefrom. The perception of Mauritius as environmentally pristine
provides a useful competitive advantage in attracting new, non-polluting industry, where quality
of life considerations sometimes loom large in locational decisions of key staff.
6.05       The development of agriculture will benefit from a transition to a more
enviromentally benign set of practices, as a "green image becomes important for marketing.
6.06       Reducing environmentally related health expenditures and productivity losses will
benefit the economy, including those citizens who are poor and economically and socially
deprived. This group will also benefit substantially from environmental conservation in general,
because they are more likely than others who are more fortunate economically to depend
exclusively on the natural environment for food and for recreation, and cannot readily escape
the effects and losses imposed by degradation.
6.07       A high quality environment is central to the successful economic and social
development of Mauritius. The Project is designed to provide the basis for cost-effective



- 57-
management of the country's environment, by providing a series of initiatives to address existing
problems, and to prevent same arising in the future.
C. Rate of Return
6.08       The quantified benefits comprise the net contribution from the continued growth
of the tourist sector (which will be inhibited if environmental quality deteriorates), the health
costs (medical and productivity losses) avoided, the savings resulting from the more efficient
allocation of infrastructure, and the value of recreation opportunities in the proposed Parks.
Based on only a partial quantification of benefits, the estimated minimum annual real rate of
return on the entire Environmental Investment Program falls in the range of 10 to 20 percent
and is probably about 15 percent (see paras. 3.31 to 3.33 and Annex 3 for details). Maintaining
the atitactiveness of the island to tourists comprises the main quantified benefit, but health and
other benefits are also significant.
6.09       Since the viability and coherence of the EIP depends on the implementation of the
Project, it follows that the rate of return to the Project - which is an essential part of the EIP
- will also be at least of this magnitude. Furthermore, since the Project acts as a catalyst for
the implementation of the EIP in its entirety, and the donor commitment thereto, it is likely
that the returns to the Project Mer se are far above 15 percent.
D. iLsks
6.10       The main risks in the execution of the Project relate to the Goverment's ability to
make the institutional and policy adjustments necessary to achieve implementation, including
enforcement. However, such risks are diminished by. the nature of the NEAP process itself;
which intensively involved Government and the private sector at all levels as well as other
interest groups including NGOs, and therefore assures commitment in the setting of objectives,
priorites and delvery mechanisms; the progress already made in institutionalizing environmental
policies; and the track record of the implementing agencies in other programs. These risks are
also minimized by the likely economic costs to Mauritius of delays or poor implementation of
the Project because of the high depend .cy of the Mauritian tourist economy on a high quality
environment, and the substantial losses which would therefore ensue if serious degradation were
to become apparent. Fmally, the external visibility of the program vis-a-vis the donor and
environmental communities will be an important incentive for government to implement it.
6.11       The sensitivity of the rate of return to reduced recreation benefits and shorter
duration of benefits yielded was examined. The projected rate of return proved to be robust in
that, even without quantifying many of the benefits, taking only 14 years instead of 16 years as
the time span over which benefits flow, and taking the lower of two projected benefit streams,
the real rate of return still exceeds 10 percent.
6.12       If the Project were delayed for 5 years, during which time a serious sequence of
environmental 'incidents" occurred which eliminated the 5 percent growth projected for the
tourist sector for ten years, the losses (i.e., the estimated willingness to pay to avoid losses)
from tourism alone would be as fQllows:



1....    .
1"99
6.13       Gtven eiting environmental trends, the probability must be coe to 1 that such
an incident, or series of incidents, will happen in the absence of the Project. ff the avoidance of
these losse is attributed to the Project investment of US$20.5 million dollars, the latter shows a
very high rate of return with the entire Projec investment ecovered in three years.
6.14       Finay, if the tourism sector were to be damaged for other (non-enviromental)
reasons, e.g., by an unexpected major surge in the numbers of tourists, rather than increased
expenditures, poor quality development, etc., then the case for conservaton would be
undermined, since the economic irationale for the EIP rests in major part on protecting the
prosperity of the tourism setor. It is, therefore, important for Goverment to continue its past
policies of pudence in the expansion of the tourism sector.



.59 
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that:
(i)    the National Physical Development Plan would be completed by December
31, 1992 (para. 4.03 (1));
(ii)    prior to the establishment of the CEL GOM would submit to th  Bank its
proposals for clearly defining the testing responsibilities and limitation for
each of the laboratories and, following the consultation with the Bank,
-would implement the agreed division of responsibilities among them (para
4.03 (2));
(iii)    land acquisition formalities for the Central Environmental Laboratory would
be completed by June 30, 1991 (para. 4.03 (2));
(iv)    a Parks Advisory Board would be established by June 30, 1991 (para. 4.03
(7));
(v)    creation of the Black River Gorges National Park by December 31, 1991
and a body to manage the Park, which would be adequately staffed (para
4.03 (7)); and
(vi)    qualified and experienced staff appointed to EPD in adequate numbers (para
5.06).
7.02      Conditions of Disbursement (related to the Integrated Pest Management and
Marine Conservation Components of the Project):
(i)    establishment of the Technical Steering Committee for the IPM component
(para. 4.03 (5)); and
(ii)    completion of co-financing arrangements with ICOD for the Marine
Conservation component (para. 4.05).
7.03      With the above assurances and covenants, the Project would be suitable for a loan
of US$1237 million on IBRD terms with 17 years maturity and 5 years grace.



MAURITIUS
Environmental Monitorint and Development Proiect
Donor Pledges at January 1989 Paris Conference
Donors Mtg. 1/89             Terms of             Date of          Finalization of
EunAing Agena                       Amount Pledged              Funding           Confirmation by         Loan/Grant
_Government           Agreement
CCCE                                     US$15m            51, 15 years
West Germany                             DM5.7m            Grant                   July 12, 1989
(US$4m)
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.                  US$5m             9%, 12 years
African Development Bank                 US$lm             .75Z, 45 years                              May 30, 1989
US$lOm           7.6% + 1% commitment
charge, 15 yrs. at
variable int. rates
Commonwealth Fund for Tech-              US$3m             Grant
nical Cooperation (CFTC)
European Investment Bank                 US$5m             3%                      July 17, 1989                          1
0%
Food and Agriculture                     US$250,000        Grant                   Dec. 29, 1989       July 14, 1989
Organization (FAO)
International Center for                 US$lm             Grant                   Dec. 29, 1989
Ocean Development (ICOD)
United Nations Development               US$600,000        Grant                   April 12, 1989      August 25, 1989
Programme (UNDP)
Nordic Investment Bank                   US$4m             15 years: 5 years       July 14, 1989       March 9, 1990
grace; .51 over LIBOR
Nordic Development Fund                  US$4m             40 yearst 10 years      July 14, 1989       March 9, 1990
(NDF)                                                    grace; .751
World Bank                               US$25m            17 years: 5 years
grace, variable int. rate
Total Funding:                US$85.85 million             Loans Interest Rates more than 5  - US$44.0 million
of which - Loan               US$77.00 million                                    less than 52 - US$33.0 million
- Grant             US$ 8.83 million



MAURITIUS                                                                  0|
Environmental Monitoring and Development Project
0
Detai.led Program Cost Table
w
mum gwmstaum    uM         - Mus In i
~~~~  -   ~~~~~~~*W    ow    la)U.3    g at 3stu eutts11 1W066   IecmIqSEW                                              we mat   a     Irmo.   I"
*13*33.t UU1 SSt St
pokys a Me.        w mu                to.=   tie.1     mm                                                       2.6               . t      jeil
-.*I Ad ev- lalt. S ItIa    Uw   mu                  xs=    S.m    1.11.13                                                                 0   36.3   321St
Uumwu1 66    - baIl *101414     e    mu              316,105I  230.=0  2wM                                                     lA          0 321
9M.a off A                                        53      3,    1253         0       0           0         0                           0 0   III  Q   1005   "o.w
_* LI    1^ -K mliO lE  
OU N41101  ft* lW               a     mu    4W .=    1. 13"  14,53  s3 aU.1). I,e                                                              31 W -o V   0 .231  1.04.33
P        stednue   S Ox"   gm    mu      .Lu  1.m.13 1.41.W   V3.3                                          Gu.          1s.4X.        0    l.mU  1;.m.s3
GIVION to  teW. a a     tea1.         mu  dA                 41m.=   3163              '                                         .             12.1    422.44
N.AOMI"a ofwq tevU am
ante. m                     ma   mu              63.,1   "LOWU           103.5                                             us.u         o  sim    W."
sonAb"n ho  CON Nu ~   ~          ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~6813 o  m  s.
WWWteia.dArte. 3                    mcmM                   1.1up5.
S mee   mat ImtaiSe           M      u inaeIArW= ut2t11e3
l     Im  atem             is    mu      43.gm N  10.I.3    uM.  O.                                O.m ,s.m 0s   i.m. *Os
eh8 Su2Z.|.t. ,as.   bauwti mtmeGND    m,l    3.13   53.5   21.1                            13.1  ,13.1                    21.5   62.53   03.66 2.56s
U.101rbagtrt #W "raw* l6at an
wo mwsmos"                        NU.  mmtG mn.=  1-=W            * ,       " l" 41t ^ ^: lt
aminat kat  atoh
- ml"MSt_p                      mu   1.MW  I.MlAD    ,3                        g         .216   I M                     4.1.W            M."    I
-  1ewlm                       mu   2.tM.W5     4"  CMAN                    1St40, 2.32S.5  O..I                      S     t    .   1.3         6.1.
* mis                   m~~~~~~~~~u 2=.M 3.53  .   1.3.415m                     2 .0a.m  4A41.5                1.36143   W.53 I.543.   S.m.m
- VW, sa3W                      au      M=,1   Mt.=   44.00                        0      33.5   Ill.=                   433.6   24.01  333f    6.=
batial IPS  .  6,114.5312.53.13 1L3U1   0 1.31.13 3.310.100    SUOND 3.33.13      0       S IS.2N.5   64.WA  4.63.33 24110.1
OA4"a $W S                              1,325 3.I.53 IS.1.53 2.5.53 2.126.53 2.436,53    &u.A   6.53.610       = 66.3  23.53 .G3    62   4.10.52  ,.u..u
Swelokaot mluuWtwMW1        In   OK       23I 0  1.641.1W  3.91.2)              I..         21610   362.53  kim10         3.53.536033    .33
a&w kg3111s l*ratV         a      mu    IU.EO 1.22.90 3.414.Xb                    R 30,1   WEAl  113.    4S.21           3,434.30   6.0   4261  1.13.12
Fmis aatraas UWAteY         a     mu      el,=   62.00  630.1                    66.423     81.30  326.5   So.=5           53,5    6.13   54.   3.116
~ktoed  e la3ral ulawatwy  U      mu      3.13  915,1  135.33                    113.53     3.53   4013    ajo1            03       am~  .mm        w,
M4a  off Cl                           W3.  4,33.3B 4.S,UO         0       0 3.33.3      331,5   W1.40  20.=1        0 4.33.11   ULM0  53.4   ,6.3



MAURITIUS
Environmental Monitoring and Development Project
Detailed  Program Cost  Table                 (contd.)
-EE amnawsu ml - wIS Uo -s
hutwul li .                      tMI    tl                                cit   Ms                             Tot alee 
Ins       w                                                                                         rAW      Dm 10 s   Ol utinl w   eIat    mu .  f*g4eq   tStg  c
03tt tf tblt SoI3w
sts bletIa       p               a      m          .m bl.m    om11)  a.1 111I,                                                                               * t12*0?    13,S 2
"eIMMMuM co ee.a l Site         go      =ID~ uo.03A   ,.M.01 11.eui.m11                                  2.534.01)3 ?.582.=                  11.01.13   554.O 2.2101.232 13.53133
C   ad IQi                              an*.m                      *1                   .m 4tb1                                                              a 111          11.611
I      bt  e    fS w ad                 Cll 58m  3  1.19  1.414,.   1,0C1*                         0      330= 1.434.030          0          1.151.0W    68.350   321.091  2.111.241
C* Miami Sinrqp maw Poo
IMtw' PIap St*                   MDO   30            a 3*0.=.C  1.Nom68             3.30.330S.30.                                                            0   308.=3  1.111.631
P4  1w13*                        033A  0M                  *.mD  O .m                 (.                                                 .0         0    6.11E.m            11.9113
tIo1 llUI                        anD   I3                  3.m      *.m0              45.m                                                      456.30       a    BA.D    5.91
Is1ioIIoda g Civil af           so    a         m.a0  ,.4.mm  I.M1.m                               o      289 31.410.0W           0          I.ej)       01.13   284.350  2.32. ItO
IIo ltl gO 681 Proust           alM U    O
bx;ik olia p 3m RAm  I           Mo    30               I.301.   1.10.30            3.60.1                                        0           30   no. we  3.34.333
IaIs allo Wo Clvil IRf          Mem            4.1.13D 0O.M320 21.30.40                            a    4.132.0Wf 30.45.1         0         23.SUMW   1.110.10) 4.M*;   20 .0.62
C5.1r    lm  Iat  b . Polk3. CtUil  WI    30                 50.13   So.=                18.0                                        0             19.33        0    I.No      51.N30
C1.9c .c *=cm aw03* .        o       o       0       31.3      53    180.30               11.13                                           31.331    )A           0    410.1111  635.411
*lA.       d WM adg esstso        cw        -        111.00    CI.0 S 11 MOM              15.11090                                         OS      350.00W)      0    42.5      231M.5
clip c irwma Im twp U11S fl             3e 9      2.1311   MMR3     M030              MAN                                                        *41         a    41i1   321.1
MW124. el &Mm   to. tc if III           I MS    I.u.u. L4310D &M.01111                It0.3  1.111,.13   1,sws3m  2.oMM                       L.=i.    240.               0. 22. W  1
_111tt<< |  Go pro      W        E30    0 t Ms     D.XS   S1,#X I sW. la=                                                             snD.eD             2 .11111   ML=a    On.111
"ift,  =ad gO PuU               5Ue               n       Iu.1     Skew                       300m                                                       50W   16.110 o1.30
civil U"    so                   urDn    so     On.Am  :AD3  a1.m                           2t15.3         01,0              tuin,illO   1 0 $2..1111.  3l60        JhL1S  4.0UL63
ctGWzarll tuks  ar                              12j".801)A$  gD4O.M4                                                                                     2.5. x0  2SD,X   311e1 10.01.1
03 PWlc    T  I*5OIW                 to a. l*awp  <z3u3
II l3w F3aq5t3c3a eb ad Rs dtIwn   aF W.Cm            3.60    In.2    133,02 3.680                                                I8*W n3.eo0   40.43    22.9"4   W1.30
m IdaOt9 UPot Ml'                    5p sa    .       23.S13   25301  26.3    15.3A0               3            l        n.Dl 4.0W  36.00  MM  t s0.5)   1.003   2C5.63    0.C5    42.80    2s11.4
De IlwatIra su,* ad cn               CD-4plci                  44.0W    44.13             n.M       n.0                                             44.0)    3.80      0 .116 1s.0sl
Sab-Wil Sw 0                                     54.41 0   1413MG    423.01)   35*0    55.0W Is.50.         16.030   24.30   66.53     3.30   42.3    I 3.1 r     13 l25  ,5 Si25
0
I.,.
o r



m'aIu'n w'tzmUO 9      'orm'C a r oswme s MWIMI   0 mar11  .ra-ar cmmai mwms  rms arnoi. wat                                     M       unIw
'St'ts uia  arul 'uw  wrotell mutt  wwO  mcm               Wwat mtIu  a5-m 'Car     urm WWI                                   I ADO 101-9
011'0 w1,    mIS   m'`a 1 a        sar o                                        .m *'l mWm   swim      m    so                  w121:0zirn ts
a-'    M.It  oWS   WU                                       rmv   mu            mut  arm               VW                      m WAI oj mtg
1 90s   snas   owe      oos  llDu           mIIU   ow.o                          ores  mw   aoem         w   (M                   mm  gU 
r su.w.l ai-ra   ow-c   Nowls        m'eaos   a6   mI'    arlDrlmt    e.t  WD'   was om,r  Uor     -11                     4 qtwn MM
Ow-Wo  Sto'           IIml-t  WO 0011  MOI  'util   WM   WolWot 02DI '  sti                                                      gt"
em'ure  WcM   Go's   00,01u.  r,mb 'rsat WV                weeoat  aes   t      Woswo    Owe$  mOwn    M m                   GIAJIMSV
un     am'w          am                    o    mo'b  b' mal'a  ares-  ar'm1 "'                            vJ           81 t W   tWal 1
own  tll  sal   Own                                        o'                   sla   We               M    u         o        an ap1s}wg
U 11111s'wim  Own   wats  Wu                               War    Wml          asat  Oins  S0b'   ,u mo          SU wuisl 21  ElI Was'e coaU-
ursa   mars  arc,  aru             Own   owes   cso        umv                 mom    rMM   own       110               MCAR0VPM'
Stam   sir,"   aI   uwo,l  m-    mro'                      ate           CwV D  SUt  oWU    500.2t    M       1    W31 PftM    4aS3   = 51
aw1   h3pwJ  ~paVo we  an. b1uteit  dsma  *j  mm"" "utwo  0U1Cw  m =   diAJ arni -j          mn                 SnE    v
4OP    *IdM S It 5U                    sRt i,as                    P1U1  15)6                *W* IbPI
Om M M  - W"1  muusm  m1n1_s   Ma
t(prLoi)    aTquJ, l'O  uz90 So3  weaj
x to)                                     :aI>rold luatudolaA&a pup SUTIoVuOli Ie5uioj1htu3
Q a                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn IZIDmflV



Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF THE EIP
A. General
1.         The environmental investment program will yield a range of benefits, only some of
which can be quantified and evaluated. Under "benefits" below,the categories for which
valuation of benefits are and are not feasible are discussed. All of the cash costs can be
quantified. There is therefore an asymmetry in the data available for analysis, in that the cost
data are relatively complete, but the benefits are not.
B. Cost and Benefits
2.         Costs. It was assumed that the market prices used for all inputs are a reasonable
proxy for social opportunity cost. This can be justified on the basis that Mauritius is a small
open economy, operating in global markets, with a near full employment economy. Thus, the
investment and operating costs estimated as comprising the actual outlays of the EIP are taken
as comprising the economic costs. Nevertheless, this is an understatement, because these costs
comprise only the costs incurred by the public sector, mainly for environmental infrastructure,
and the operation thereof. They do not include the quite substantial costs which will be incurred
by the private sector in complying with the various regulations etc. However, as noted above,
the value of the benefit stream is even more understated, so that this understatement of costs is
not likely to alter the overall conclusion.
3.         Individual elements of the EIP will be implemented over periods ranging from two
to four years. In order to facilitate computation, it is assumed that the entire package will be
undertaken over a three year period, and that the benefit stream will not commence until the
investments are complete. The time period for which the stream of benefits and costs was
evaluated is 1991 to 2009 with benefits commencing in 1994. Annual recurrent costs have been
estimated at 10 percent of total capital outlays, rounded to the nearest million.
Total Investment Cost:  $108,987,572, or $36 million per year for three years,
rounding to the nearest million.
Annual Recurrent Cost: $ 11,000,000
4.         Benefits. There are no markets for the outputs of the Environmental Investment
Program which can be directly used to evaluate the benefits. The latter can be descnrbed
qualitatively as follows, by sector:
Sector A: Benefits not Ouantitativelv Evaluated
(1)  Agriculft'te - the cost savings resulting from more efficient use of fertilizer,
and moi.. cost effective pest control; beiter marketing opportunities for food
products.
(2)  Industry - maintenance of investment in "traditional' industry, because a
serious (toxic waste related) accident is avoided; encouragement of
investment in new industry which demands a clean environment as a pre-



Annex 3
Page 2 of 10                          - 65 -
condition of location; more cost-effective waste treatment and disposal;
cleaner intake water, and consequent lower water treatmSent costs.
(3)  Global Community - conservation of the remaining unique flora and fauna
of Mauritius, and benefits yielded thereby in just knowing that these have
been conserved - i.e.,vicarious consumption; the options which have been
kept open for posterity in terms of the potential of the genetic stock for the
development of medicines, food production, basic research (Option Value).
Sector B: BenefUt Cateeories Evaluated
(1)  Tourism - maintenance of the flow in, and growth of, tourist expenditure in
general, and specifically, maintenance as a priority destination for the high
income/high expenditure visitor; provision of marine and forest-based natural
attractions and focal points.
(2)  Households and Consumers - fewer deaths, and better health mainly as a
consequence of reduction in enteritis and diarrhoeal diseases; clean water;
less litter; access to the National Park; the satisfaction of knowing that key
environmental assets and species -- symbolic of Mauritian culture and
identity - have been conserved for posterity.
(3)  Multi-Sectoral - More cost-effective allocation of infrastructural investment,
especially water supply, waste treatment and disposal; more efficient
allocation of Crown lands.
5.         Evaluation of Beneflts. For those benefits for which quantitative valuation proved
possible, the conventional 'with-without" approach was used, whereby the wfllingness to pay on
the part of Mauritians to have the EIP was estimated where possible and feasible. In practice,
this involved estimating "avoidance costs"; i.e.,the costs or losses which will be avoided if the
EIP is undertaken.
6.         The evaluation effort focussed on four benefit categories: the first of these was
tourism, because it was clear that a high environmental quality is central to the tourism product,
and it proved possible to approxinate the order of magnitude of losses which could be incurred
if environmental quality declined; the second was health, because this is of considerable
significance for the people of Mauritius - especially those who are poor - and it proved
possible to approximate some of the medical and time costs which would be. avoided if the EEP
were undertaken; the third was some portion of the multi-sectoral benefits flowing as a result of
more efficient allocation of infrastructure, although the estimate is based only on informed
judgement; the fourth was the willingness to pay to visit the National Park ant Marine Park
which are proposed under the EIP.
7.         Tourism. There is universal agreement that the tourism business and revenue
would be adversely affected by a deterioration in environmental quality. There is less agreement
as to the extent of the damage, or when it would be most likely to be felt.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
8.         The following three scenarios were agreed to be in the "plausible conservative"
range:
Under Scenario 1, it is assumed that, with a continuing high quality environment,
real tourism expenditure would increase annually at a compound rate of 5 percent.
If the EIP is not proceeded with, and the environment thus deteriorates, it is
assumed that growth continues at 5 percent per annum up to 1993, but does not
grow thereafter: the effect of the deterioration in quality is not to lose existing
vulume, but to wipe out growth after 1993.
Under Scenario 2 with a high quality environment, annual compound growth is
projectei at 5 percent to 1993, rising to 10 percent thereafter. It is assumed that
the absence of the EIP will wipe out all the growth projected post-1993.
Under Scenario 3, it is assumed that, with the EIP, tourist receipts will increase at
an annual rate of 2 percent. Without EIP, it is assumed that tourist receipts will
decline at a rate of 7 percent per annum. The benefits of the EIP comprise the
difference between the 2 percent growth and the 7 percent decline.
Willingness to pay is estimated at 30 percent of the tourism receipts. The
rationale for this estimate is outlined below.
In each scenario, the tourism expenditure estimated as being attributable to the defensive
environmental expenditures is the difference between the no growth outlook post 1993, and the
growth projected. Note that what is being discussed here is growth in tourist expenditure, not
growth in tourist numbers: it is hoped that most of the growth projected will come from
increased expenditure per visitor.
9.         Many experts feel that these are both very conservative assumptions.
10.        Having estimated the fall in tourism expenditure which could be expected if the
environment is allowed to deteriorate (by not undertaking the EIP), the next step was to
estimate what proportion of this expenditure is represented by the willingness to pay at the
margin on the part of beneficiaries from tourism expenditure - direct and indirect - to prevent
the decline.
11.       It is estimated that the contribution by Restaurants and Hotels to GDP in 1989
amounted to 815 million rupees, and that this in turn comprised 80 percent of the Tourism
sector's contribution to same, so that tourism's total contribution to GDP amounted to 1,019
million rupees. Since gross receipts from tourism in 1989 amounted to 2,830 million rupees,
then 1,019/2,830 or 36 percent of total expenditure comprises value added.
12.        The willingness to pay at the margin to attract tourist expenditure is not the same
as average value added: willingness to pay would be somewhat less than value added on the
"first round" of tourist expenditure. However, willingness to pay" will apply throughout the
direct, indirect and induced sectors which benefit from tourism expenditure, rather than being
confined to direct effects: some of the construction industry - with a GDP contribution in 1989
of 1467 million rupees - is "driven" by the tourist sector, as is some of the transport (airlines
and taxis) sector.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 10                         -67-
13.        Balancing the fact that "first round" willingness to pay at the margin will be
somewhat less than value added, but that this imbalance would be more than corrected for
when other effects are included, we conclude that 30 percent of gross tourism receipts or
expenditure comprise a reasonable estimate of willingness to pay to generate/retain tourism
revenue at the margin.
14.        Applying this coefficient to the two scenarios yields the estimated willingness to
pay to keep the Mauritian environment pristine for the tourist industry (Annex Table 1).
15.        Health, Of the diseases caused primarily by environmental conditions, enteritis and
other diarrhoeal diseases are by far the most significant in Mauritius. The incidence of malaria
is very low, and most of those cases which do occur are imported. The 38 deaths from typhoid
fever showed a worrying increase in 1989 - up from 15 in 1988 - and the annual number of
recorded deaths from pesticide ingestion fall in the 30-40 range (details in Annex Tables
2 and 3).
16.        It was assumed that the implementation of the EIP would reduce the incidence of
enteritis and other diarrhoeal diseases by 50 percent below the 1989 level, mainly by improving
the disposal and treatment of sewage. It was not possible to estimate the impact on the other
disease categories. (It is felt that many of the pesticide-related deaths are suicides, but no data
are available in this regard.)
17.        Valuation focussed on three items: the costs of hospital treatment, the costs of
dispensary treatment, and the value of output lost as a result of illness.
Assumptions
Costs of hospitalization:        MuRs 800 per night
Costs of dispensary visit:       MuRs 300 per night
Ave. stay in hospital (1988):    2.7 nights
Ave. monthly earnings in mfg.(1989): MuRs 2934, or MuRs 146 per day
18.        Attendance at hospital results in loss of 5 days work for 50 percent of the cases
representing the working age population (54 percent of hospital admissions in 1988 were over
14 years of age). Attendance at dispensary results in loss of 3 days work for 50 percent of
cases. EIP will reduce incidence of disease by 50 percent.
19.        Health Benefits. Applying the assumptions yields the following:
Reduced hospital costs:          (4467 x 0.5) x 2.7 x 800     = MuRs 4.82 million
Reduced dispensary costs:        (27521 x 0.5) x 1.0 x 300    = MuRs 4.13 million
Output foregone (Hospital related):  (4467 x 0.5) x 5 x 0.5 x 147    = MuRs 0.82 million
Output foregone (Dispensary related): (27521 x 0.5) x 3 x 0.5 x 147   = MuRs 3.03 million



Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
20.        Converted to US dollars, the totals can be summarized as follows:
US$ million
Reduced hospital costs     0.32
Reduced dispensary costs   0.27
Value of output not lost   0.26
Total                      0.85
This can be rounded to US$1 million.
21.        Multi-Sectoral Savines on Infrastructure. The development and implementation of
the National Physical Plan will allow more efficient investment and utilization of infrastructure,
and will help ensurc that new investments in roads, sewerage, electricity etc. are complementary.
22.        The new data base for the Crown Lands will allow much more rapid rent
collection than heretofore, it will facilitate analysis and comparisons, and will be helpful in the
environmental and financial assessment of lease applications and renewals.
23.       It was estimated that the savings resulting from the implementation of the Plan
and the Crown Lands information system would result in annual savings of at least $15 million
per annum.
24.        National Park and Marine Park Benefits. It is projected that, after 5 years, visitor
numbers to the National Park and the marine Park will total 350,000 annually. Assuming an
average willingness to pay of US$1.5 per visit (it will be higher for tourists, lower for residents),
the total willingness to pay is US$525,000, rounded to $0.5 million.
25.        Total Benefits. The total estimated benefits are shown in Annex Table 4. The
dominance of tourism is notable, comprising over 90 percent of the estimated benefits, even in
the lower of the two scenarios.
C. Analvsis
26.        The estimated costs and benefits are combined to yield the net benefit stream
shown in Annex Table 5, for each of the two growth scenarios projected for tourism:
27.        The internal rate of return for each scenario, over different time periods, is
estimated in Annex Table 6.
28.        Clearly, the results are very sensitive to the length of time that it is assumed the
benefits (costs foregone) of the EIP last. although a tendency to converge is observable as the
period lengthens. However, the maximum period projected - 16 years, from 1994 to 2009
inclusive - is thought to be quite conservative. Likewise, there is considerable sensitivity to the
expected growth in tourism revenue above the base line which can be anticipated if the
environment is appropriately managed.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 10                                   -69-
29.           Rate of Return. It appears reasonable to assume that the internal rate of return is
likely to lie in the range of 10 to 20 percent, or 15 percent average.
Amex table I
Eotlmted W1tltiDess to PaY to Avoid the ELimination of Growth in tauriso
Exnmnditure Per tourist 1993: Two Seenerios
(AWl data expressed in Mittions 1989 US Dottars)
Year        o Grow             5X          10             Difference              klJttnaness to Pay
Post 1993        Growth                     0-5X         0-1CX         0-5%          0-10%
(1)             (2)         (3)          (4)           C5)          (6)            (7)
(2)-Cl)     (3)-Cl)       (4)x0.3       (S)xO.3
1989           184              -           -           .
1990           193              -                        -                  -             -
1991           203              -           -            -    -
1992           213              -           -                         -
1993           224             224         224 
1994           224             235         246           11          22             3             7
1995           224             247         271          23           47             7             14
1996           224             259         298          35           74            10            22
199?           224             272         328          48          104            14            31
1998           224             285         361          61          137             i8           41
1999           224             300         397          76          173            23            52
2000           224             315         437          91          213            2?            64
2001           224             330         480          106         256            32             77
2002           224             347         528          123         304            37             91
2003           224             364         581          140         357            42            107
2004           224             382         639          158         415            47            124
2005           224             402         703          178         479            53           144
2006           224             422         773          198         549            59            165
2007           224             443         851          219         627            66           188
2008           224             465         936          241          712           72            214
2009           224             488         1029         264         805            79            241



Annex 3
-ag7e  7 of  10
-70 -
Aimex Table IA
EstlUmted Ui(linsness to Pay to Avofd the Elimination cf
Tourism Growth with EIP (2% wer aim ard the Absotute Redtih  in
Tourism Receints without EIP (7X oer annmam.
(AUt date expressed in mtlLions 1989 US DoUaers)
Year       2% Growth           5X           t21-        4x0.3        Other          OilioSUm      Wet
Decline                    Tourisf                                  Benefit
(1)          (2)              (3)          (4)           (5)         (6)    -)                    (8)
;(5)46)
1989           184                -
199Q           193                -          -                         -
1991           203                -          -            -36
1992           213                -          -            -                                        -3
1993           224             224           -                                                     -36
1994           228             209          19          .6             3              9            - 2
1995           233              196         37           11            3.            14              3
1996           238              183         55           16            3            19               8
1997           242              171         71           21            3             24             13
1998           247              160         87           .26           -            29.             18
1999           252             149         103           31                         34.             23
2000           257              139         118          35            3             38             27
2001           262             .130         132          40            3             43             32
2002           268              122         146          44                         .47             36
2003           273              114.       1S9           48            .3            51             40
2004           279              106         173          S2            3             55             44
2005           284       .       99         185          S5            A             58             47
2006           290               93         197.         59            3             62             51
2007           296               87       .209           63      .     3             66.   -        55
2008           301               81        220           66            3             69             58
2009           308               76        232          .70            3             73             62
Note: The Net Bewefit eoLumn - (8) - is derived by deducting the capital costs - US$36 mfttion eech year for
three years - and the  nnumt recurrent costs US$11 im ttion - from Willingness to Pay estirates In colwum  (7).



Annex 3
Page 8 of 10
-71 -
Annex Table 2
Re ort to Sanitary Authorities & Cases Irated. Selected Diseases (1982-89)
i2SI    .I2.~1       984                     9-87'                   1988        98
Malaria
-indigenous           623       264         102           16           9          24          82           4
-imported              45        32         41            38          24          96          136          74
Total:             668      296         143           54          33          120         168          78
Typhoid Fever            4       15          10            6          19           8           15          38
Enteritis & Other
DiarrheaL Disease:
Cases treated in
Govt. Hospital        5509     5093        4590         3932        3813        3722        4467         n.a.
First Attendance
at Dispensarie.S     23565    25286       24813        Z2722       26950       27939       27521         n.a.
Registered Deaths      166      10?         107           n           76          62          103        n.a.
source: Data provided by Dr. R. Neewoor, Department of Health
Annex Table 3
Pesticide Related Death and In-patient  reatment. 198488. No. of Ceses
Deaths due to toxc
effects of pesticides                 37           32           35          26           36
in-patient treatment for toxic
effects of pesticides                352          347         352          337         331
Source  Ministry of Healt



Annex 3
Page 9 of 10
- 72-
Annex Table 4
Table: ToaLO W imated Benefits in millions oF 1989 US!
.. , :, .,', ...... , 3,   :
: Tourism               .Tot-al-  *1.  
1994'            7            6        3    :            10      9
199$                 14      113017                              4
1996   :    0 -      22    -16        - 3      13       :2       1
-199        14       31     :21        3       11        34   V4
1998       18        41      26        3       21         4     29
:1999       23 -    52        31    - 3        26        55 :
.200       -27  - 64-    35                3  30         6       38
200:-   : 32         X .77   40        3       3         80      43
20031                91      -.44     .3    40           94      47
2003        42      107      As48      3       45      1-0 
2004       47     :: 124     52        3       50       2127     5S
2005        53     144      55       -3       56       147      58
2006        59    .165       S          3-    62      : 168      62.
207                 18       63        .3      69       191      66
2008        7-2     214      66        3       7S       217      69.
2009        79      241      70         3      82       244      73



Annex 3                               73
Page 10 of 10
Annex Table S
Net Benet Proiections. Millions of constant 1989 US dollars
Year         Scen.1            Scen,2           Sen.3
(5%)             (10%)            (2%)
1991         -36               -36              -36
1992         -36               -36             -36
1993         -36               -36              -36
1994          -5               -1               -2
1995          - 1                6               3
1996           2                14                8
1997           6                23              13
1998          10                33               18
1999          15                44              23
2000          19                56               27
2001          24                69               32
2002          29                83               36
2003          34                99               40
2004          39               116               44
2005          45               136               47
2006          51               157               51
2007          58               180               55
2008          64               206               58
2009          71               233               62
Annex Table 6
Internal Rate of Return (%)
Year of
Termination
of Benefits    Scen.1         Scen.2           Scen.3
(%)            (%)             (%)
2003          2.29          17.95            7.55
2005          6.95          21.39           11.02
2007         10.01          23.55           13.20
2009         12.08          24.95           14.64



Annex 4
Page 1 of 10
- 74 -
MAURITIUS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTABLISHMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATOPIES
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND LAND USE (MELU)
INTRODUCTION
1.     A significant limitation in assessing the state of the environment
in the country of Mauritius is the lack of detailed, technical data on the
quality of water resources, the pollution control practices of industrial,
agricultural, and commercial sectors, the environmental hazards in or near
the workplace, and the quality of air. The development of laboratory
capabilities for this assessment is critical. The purpose of this project
is to provide funding for such laboratory capabilities within the
Government of Mauritius (GOM).
DLSCRPTION
2.     The wide range of environmental testing required to meet these
objectives can best be met with several laboratories. It is recommended
that four laboratories be developed and/or upgraded: a) a Central
Environmental Laboratory (CEL), b) a Water Quality Laboratory (WQL), c) a
Health Quality Laboratory (HQL), and d) an Agricultural Quality Laboratory
(AQL). The CEL will provide coordination, guidance, and oversight for the
other laboratories, which will conduct environmentally related testing
limited to their area of expertise.
3.     The CEL may, in order to support special projects, contract with
the three other laboratories to perform environmentally related analyses as
required to meet the objectives of the overall environmental program for
Mauritius. It is recommended that a fixed fee per test per sample be
established in order to provide each subcontract laboratory with ongoing
operational and development costs to support these special activities.
This will require a mechanism, possibly including new legislation, to
charge for these tests, and more importantly, to retain these funds within
the individual subcontract laboratories for their direct use.
4.     The Government of Mauritius has conflicting legislation, which
allows overlapping responsibilities for environmental testing. It is
recommended that new legislation be introduced to provide a mandate for
environmental testing as follows: a) National Environment Commission (NEC)
and the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) - regulations for and
oversight of all environmental analyses, b) Ministry of Energy (MOE) -all
testing on water, wastewater and effluents, c) Ministry of Health (MOH) -
all testing on air, physiological fluids, noise, radiation, and hazardous
substance formulations, and d) Ministry of Agriculture (KAFNR) -all testing
on agriculture, foods, fertilizers, and soils.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 10
- 75 -
nITIUTIONAL FRAIUIWRK PM T
5.      The NEC has given the EPD, In the Ministry of Environment and Land
Use (MELU), the responsibility for establishing and enforcing environmental
regulations. As part of this mandate, the EPD will manage the CEL. This
lab, under EPD authority, will help to ensure that there exists adequate
environmental protection for the entire country.
6.      The CEL will provide guidance and oversight for the WQL, HQL, and
the AQL relative to environmental analyses. This is detailed belows
o Provides training and standard methodology for al;
matrices of Interest, including documentation on the
analytical methods and the required Maximum
Contaminant Levels (MCL) or standards of
enforcement.
o Provides training and Quality Assurance/Quality
Control (QAIQC) procedures for the standard methods,
includings
-  procedures for establishing Method Detection
Levels (MDLs) and Practical Quantitation
Limits (PQLs);
-  calibration procedures for analytical
instruments;
-  acceptable accuracy, precision and recoveries
for each method;
-  quality Control chart procedures;
-  number of blanks, duplicates, spikes per set
of samples; and
-  good laboratory practices.
o Implements a National Accreditation Program and an
Audit Program for all laboratories in Mauritius,
both GOM and Non-Government Organisation (NGO)
laboratories.
o Audits the level and quality of routine and
compliance monitoring activities of the individual
laboratories, at least on a aemi-annual basis.
7.     The CEL may subcontract for environmental testing with the three
other la',oratories. This testing may be in response to various surveys or
assessment projects defined by the EPD. The EPD/CEL will pay these
laboratories for the services rendered according to a fee schedule that
will be established. A budget for this testing must be established by the
EPD/CEL. The purpose of paying fees by the CEL to the subcontract
laboratories is to supplement their ongoing operational costs. This will
&saure appropriate staffing and instrumental resources to meet the



Annex 4
Page 3 of 10
- 76 -
anticipated growth and priorities in the project related environmental
requirements for Mauritius.
8.      If a Ministry (e.g., MAFNR) wishes to have testing done on a matrix
for which they do not have responsibility (e.g., water), that Ministry will
contract for the work to be done by the appropriate Ministry (e.g., in this
case, Energy - WQL).
9.      Each of the satellite laboratories (WQL, HQL, and AQLj will also
provide routine and compliance monitoring environmental analyses as jointly
agreed to between the respective Ministries and the EPDICEL. Eachl Ministry
will be required to provide budget monies for this routine and compliance
testing. The EPD/CEL will periodically audit the level and quality of
testing by each Ministry, at least on a semi-annual basis. It will be
critical that these three laboratories provide high quality work in a
reasonably short period of time, and most importantly, in line with the
priorities established by the CEL. In addition to the project related work
defined by the CEL, these three laboratories will also continue to provide
the rou. a non-environmental testing they have been conducting in the
past. Each ministry will continue to provide a budget for this testing.
10.     she CEL will also: a) provide non-routine environmental testing, b)
respond to urgent problems with its mobile laboratory, c) develop new
analytical methods, and d) provide research into the treatment of hazardous
wastes. These respons -bilities are more clearly defined in the following
section.
TESTING RESPONSIBILITIES
11.    The proposed testing responsibilities for each laboratory are as
follows:
1. CENTRAL E.VIRONMENTAL LABORATORY (CEL) - NEC/EPD
o  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES LABORATORY (ORGANICSIINORGANICS)
o  NON-ROUTINE ANALYSES & ANALYTICAL METHOD DEVELOPMENT
o  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT - HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT
o  QUALITY ASSURANCEIQUALITY CONTROL GUIDANCE FOR ALL
LABORATORIES
o  ACCREDITATION OF ALL LABORATORIES - GOM & NGO
o  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SURVEYS
o  MOBILE FIELD TESTING LABORATORY - AIR & WATER
2. WATER QUALITY LABORATORY (WQL, - MINISTRY OF ENERGY
o  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES IN WATER - POTABLE, SURFACE, GROt1D
SEA, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE WATER
o  MOBILE FIELD TESTING LABORATORY - WATER
3. HEALTH QUALITY LABCRATORY (HQL) - MINISTRIES OF HEALTH & MINISTRY



Annex 4
Page 4 of 10
- 77 -
OF LABOR (COMBINATION OF GOVERNMENT ANALYSIS DIVISION (GAD),
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS), & PESTICIDE ASSAY LABS)
o  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES IN PHYSIOLOGICAL SUBSTANCES
o  AIR MONITORING ANALYSES
o  MOBILE FIELD TESTING LABORATORY - AIR
o  NOISE AND RADTATION TT:STING
o  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES FORMULATION ASSAYS
o PESTICIDES, DYESTUFFS, TANNING CHEMICALS, ETC.
4. AGRICULTURAL QUALITY LABORATORY (AQL) - MAFNR
o HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES IN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES, FOODS,
FEEDS, SOILS
EQUIPENWT DETAILS AND COST ESTIMATES
12.    Equipment requirements are summarized in the tables, below.  Costs
are based on direct purchases from vendors and do not include brokerage
fees, which could add at least 30% to the estimated costs. The spare parts
estimates include disposables and cover a period of 5 years. Estimates for
training provide for the cost s of the training programs and a trainer to
come to Mauritius to provide training for appropriate people in all the
laboratories. Training for instrument repairs and sampling technology may
best be done outside of the country.
1. CENTRAL ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY (ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
DEPARTMENT)
o  EQUIPMENT                                $ 621,540.00
o  FREIGHT                                  $  62,154.00
o  SPARE PARTS AND INSTALLATION             $ 513,981.00
o  TRAINING                                 $  102,175.00
SUB-TOTAL                       $1,299,850.00
2. WATER QUALITY LABORATORY (MINISTRY OF ENERGY)
o  EQUIPMENT                                $ 494,030.00
o  FREIGHT                                  $   49,403.00
o  SPARE PARTS AND INSTALLATION             $ 366,369.00
o  TRAINING                                 $   48,275.00
SUB-TOTAL                       $  958,347.00



Annex 4
Page 5 of 10
- 78 -
3. HEALTH QUALI ff LABORATORY (MINISTRIES OF HEALTH AND LABOR)
o  EQUIPMENT                               $  360,760.00
o  FREIGHT                                 $  36,0O6.00
o  SPARE PARTS                             $ 245,526.00
o  TRAINING                                $  50,225.00
SUB-TOTAL                       $ 692,587.00
4. AGRICULTURAL QUALITY LABORATORY (MINISTRY OF AGRICt iLTURE)
o  EQUIPMENT                               $ 277,935.00
o  FREIGHT                                 $  27,794.00
o  SPARE PARTS & INSTALIATION              $ 213,294.00
o  TRAINING                                $  42,125.00
SUB-TOTAL                       $ 561,148.00
GRAND TOTAL                     $3,511,932.00
LABORATYB DUILDING SIZE AND COST ESTIMATES
13.    The estizates for b-ilding size are based on the number of
instruments and other equipment, the volume of testing expected for the
next five years, and the input provided by the technical staffs of each
laboratory. The total space required by the equipment has been increased
by 3O0 to allow for sample preparation and general wet chemical analyses.
The total space has also been increased by 602 (called a grossing factor)
to allow for common areas, corridors, toilet facilities, etc. Finally, the
total space has been increased by 102 per year for 5 years (502) to allow
for the expansion that has been anticipated. The cost for land has not
been included in these estimates.
14.    The cost estimates per square foot have been taken directly from
the estimates provided by EPD and have been applied across the board. This
estimate is $57.00 per square foot, and is assumed to include construction,
furniture and fixtures, and laboratory bextiches and cabinets. It is further
assumed that air conditioning will be provided in all new laboratories; air
conditioning must also be provided for the entire Agricultural Quality
Laboratory and fume hoods installed. The size of the existing AQL is large
enough to accommodate the new equipment.
1. CENTIAL ENVIRONHENTAL LABORATORY (EPD)
o  10,000 SQUARE FEET                      $ 570,000.00
2. WATER QUALITY LABORATORY (MOE)
o  8,000 SQUARE FEET                       $ 456,000.00
3. HEALTH QUALITY LABORATORY (NOHI/OL)
o  4,000 SQUARE FEET                       $ 228,000.00



Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
- 79 -
4. AGRICULTURAL QUALITY LABORATORY (MAFNR)
o  AIR CONDITIONING ONLY                    $   75,000.00
TOTAL BUILDING COSTS                 $1,329,000.00
SUMMARY OF COSTS
o  IN THE AGGREGATEs
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                         $3,269,132.00
TRAINING COSTS                          $ 242,800.00
BUILDING                                $1,329,000.00
CONTINGENCIES                           $ 242,046.00
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                  $5,082,978.00
o  BY LABORATORY:
CEL
LOCAL COSTS                             $ 239,400.00
FOREIGN COSTS                           $1.723,943.00
TOTAL                    $1,963,343.00
o  WQL:
LOCAL COSTS                             $  191,520.00
FOREIGN COSTS                           $1.293.544.00
TOTAL                    $1,485,064.00
o  HQL:
LOCAL COSTS                             $   95,760.00
FOREIGN COSTS                           $ 870,856200
TOTAL                    $  966,616.00
o  AQL:
LOCAL COSTS                             $   31,500.00
FOREIGN COSTS                           $ 636,455.00
TOTAL                     $ 667,955.00
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                  $5,082,978.00
masTuG AND PROJECTED STAFIN  LEVELS
15.    The existing staff in all labor&tories are highly motivated to
perform the testing required, however, they aro severely constrained by
poor working conditions and inadequate equipment and facilities. There
appears to be no need for scientists trained in biochemistry to work in any
of the laboratories. The need is clearly defined for chemists (analytical)



Annex 4
Page 7 of 10
- 80 -
and microbiologists for scientific officer positions and trained or
experienced staff in the other positions.
16.    The issue of instrumentation repair and maintenance is a critical
one. It is recommended that two such repair officers be hired at the CEL
and provide this service for all laboratories. Training is available
through most instrument vendors.
17.    The apparent disparity between the wages paid to government
scientists and private-sector scientists will be an ongoing problem. This
situation will not attract into the GOM the highly skilled technical people
needed to perform this highly sophisticated environmental testing. It is
recommended that a thorough salary survey be performed to set the
laboratory staff salaries comparable to those in the private sector. If
qualified staff are not available in the short-term, it may be necessary to
consider the use of private contractors.
1. CENTRAL ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY
o  EXISTING STAFF         1      CHEMIST/SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
o  NEW STAFF              1      CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
4      CHEMISTS/SCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
10     TECHNICAL OFFICERS
2      QA/QC - ACCREDITATION OFFICERS
2      INSTRUMENT REPAIR OFFICERS
5      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
3      ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF
TOTAL     28      PEOPLE
2. WATER QUALITY LABORATORY
o  EXISTING STAFF         1      BIOCHEMISTISCIENTIFIC OFFICER
4      TECHNICAL OFFICERS
2      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
1      DRIVERISAMPLER
o  NEW STAFF              1      CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
2      CHEMISTSISCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
I      MICROBIOLOGiST/SCIENT. OFFICER
10     TECHNICAL OFFICERS
5      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
2      DRIVERSISAMPLERS
5      ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF
TOTAL     34      PEOPLE



Annex 4
rage -S of 10
- 81 -
3. HEALTH QUALITY LABORATORY
o  EXISTING STAFF        1      CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
5      CHEMISTSISCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
10     TECHNICAL OFFICERS
5      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
5      ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF
o  NEW STAFF             4      CHEMISTSISCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
1      INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST
6      TECHNICAL OFFICERS
4      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
TOTAL     41      PEOPLE
4. AGRICULTURAL QUALITY LABORATORY
o  EXISTING STAFF        1      CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
6      CHEMISTSISCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
6      TECHNICAL OFFICERS
6      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
o  NEW STAFF             2      CHEMISTSISCIENTIFIC OFFICERS
2      TECHNICAL OFFICERS
2      LABORATORY ATTENDANTS
2      ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT STAFF
TOTAL     27      PEOPLE
TIKING CONSIDERATIONS
18.    All details provided below assume that the project will be
initiated at the beginning of 1991.
1.  CENTRAL ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY (EPD).The time for building the
CEL should take approximately 12 months, thus the building should
be ready by January, 1992. The water and air analysis kits and the
mobile lab should be purchased immediately. The remaining
equipment should be purchased during the month of October, 1991 for
delivery by January, 1992. Staffing should begin near the end of
1991, so that people can be trained when the equipment arrives.
This laboratory will require approximately four to six months after
the staff and equipment is in place to be considered f ily
operational.
2. WATER QUALITY LABORATORY (MOE). The time for building the WQL
should also take approximately 12 months, thus the building should
be ready by January, 1992. The water analysis kits and the mobile
lab should be purchased imediately. The remaining equipment
should be purchased during the month of October, 1991 for delivery



Annex 4
Page 9 of 10
- 82 -
by January, 1992. Staffing should begin near the end of 1991, so
that people can be trained when the equipment arrives. This
laboratory will require approximately four to six months after the
staff and equipment is in place to be considered fully operational.
3.  HEALTH QUALITY LABORATORY (MOHIHOL).  The time for building the HQL
should also take approximately 12 months, thus the building should
be ready by January, 1992. The air analysis equipment and the
mobile lab should be purchased intmediately. The remaining
equipment should be purchased during the month of October, 1991 for
delivery by January, 1992. Staffing should begin near the end of
1991, so that people can be trained when the equipment arrives.
This laboratory will require approximately four to six months after
the staff and equipment is in place to be considered fully
operational.
4. AGRICULTURAL QUALITY LABORATORY (MUFNR). !;o building is required
for the AQL, however, air conditioning and the hookup of fume hoods
must be completed prior to ordering *quipment. The equipment
should be purchased during the month of January, 1991, for delivery
during May of 1991. Staffing should also begin during this period.
If desired, staff from the other laWoratories could be trained on
the gas chromatographs, graphite furnace atomic absorption
spectrophotometer, high performance liquid chromatographs, and
UV/Visible spectrophotometer at the AQL, if this is convenient with
their staffing plans. This laboratory will require approximately
two to four months after the staff and equipment is in place to be
considered fully operational.
IHPLDEHZTTIOa SCEEDULt
YEAR                1990   1991    1992    1993
QUARTER               1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
COMPONENT
CEL                       ---------------
w   L                     -----------
HQL                       -----------
AQL                       ------
ISSUES AM3 CONCERNS
1. LEGISLATION
A. Legislation is required to clearly define the testing
responsibilities and limitations for each Ministry. For



Annex 4
Page 10 of 10
- 83 -
example, the Ministry of Energy has complete responsibility
for all environmentally related testing of water (potable,
votewater, groundwater, etc.). Any other Ministry
requiring environmental testing of water must contract with
the Water Quality Laboratory (MOE) for that tosting.
B. Legislation is required to allow for the charging and
retention of fees for the contracted testing mentioned In
I.A above.
C. Legislation may also be required to allow for a job
classification study and salary adjustment for
onvironmental scientists and technicians. This is strongly
needed to attract and keep capable people in the G0N
laboratories, since the salaries offered in the private
sector are substantially higher than in the civil service.
D. Alternate legislation may be required to allow the use of
contractors, at least in the short-term, in the GO labs if
there exists a shortfall of qualified people.
2.  CCSEIThENTS REQUIRED BY THE GOM
A. Staffing requirements for the laboratories must be
guaranteed by the GO in order for this complicated
environmental monitoring program to be effective.
B. The G0M must also commlt to ongoing operational and capital
budgets to maintain and Improve the individual
laboratc'.ies- As discussed during the appraisal mission in
Ifry 1990, each Ministry will provide funds for routine and
compliance monitoring, however, the level of testing will
be jointly established with the EPD and monitored by them.
3. TRAINING
A. There are two apparent options for training -- local and
foreign. The cost estimates assume bringing trainers to
Mauritius, rather than people going awmy for foreign
trainlng. This seem to be the best way to assure that
training will be included in contracts for the purchase of
equipment. The training for instrument repair personnel
and sampling personnel may require foreign travel and
training at remote sites.
B. The assumptions made for training also assume that all
appropriate personnel from all laboratories be trained on
the same lnstruments at the same time.



Aniex S
- 84 -                        Page I of 5
MAURITIUS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STUDY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
FOR WATER INTENSIVE AND POLLUTING ACTIVITIES
Appointment of Consultants
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        The industrial expansion of our manufacturing sector in recent
years has brought about in its wake a growing demand for industrial space
from water intensive and polluting activities. This demand is at present
coming mostly from the textile sector, where more and more industrialists
are interested in setting up dyeing plants as part of their operations in
an effort to achieve vertical integration of their manufacturing
activities. Coupled with this demand, there is also keen interest from the
leather sector for space where leather processing could be set up.
2.        With the increased importance of the above-mentioned activities
in our industrial development, regulations governing these highly polluting
operations are becoming most stringent in order to ensure preservation of
our physical environment and underground water resources.
3.        Hence the need is being felt to develop an industrial estate
with all the necessary site infrastructure where such activities could be
located; and enjoy the knowledge that their wastes (gaseous, liquid and
solid) are successfully being treated in an environmental acceptable
manner.
The Progosed New Industrial Estate
4.        This project will involve the development of a large area of
land (around 20 ha) the extent of which is to be determined after having
examined the present demand for factory space from polluting activities,
the trend for future demand and the possible need to relocate some existing
aetivities which are presently wrongly sited.
5.        The proposed estate will be fully serviced to include all
essential infrastructure such ass water lines, sewer network, storm water
drainage, power lines, telephone and telex lines, a comprehensive internal
road network, service reservoir for water supply to the estate, a
centralized plart for the treatment of liquid effluent from the various
processing activities on the premises, provisions for sludge treatment and
disposal, a fully protected and managed hazardous waste disposal site,
appropriate air pollution control and monitoring, an incinerator and all
such other necessary implements for the protection of the environment and
other utilities as may be found necessary for such a project.
6.        The study will recommend whether the industrial estate should be
initially provided with factory buildings, including their total floor
area.



Annex S
Page 2 of 5                        - 85 -
7.        The rest of the land will be made available on lease to
industrialists, who may wish to set up their own factory buildings. The
whole estate will be landscaped so as to be environmentally pleasant 'nd
properly integrated to the surrounding areas.
8.        A site selection of the exercise for this development has
already been carried out by a local team comprising representatives from
various Mir.istries and organizations concerned.
9.        Based on a set of well-defined criter'a, including compatibility
of the site with other land uses, water availability, access roads,
possible mode of disposal of treated effluents, power availability and
telecommunications services, the team has, during the month of March and
April 1990, selected two alternative sites located in Bel Air (eastern part
of the island) and Beau Vallon (south east). An in-depth study of these
two preselected sites will have to be carried out and recommendations for
the appropriate site must be submitted.
10.       The study will give the general guidelines for a planned
development for the whole estate.
Detailed Study and Preliminary Desian
11.       Given the importance of such a project, there is a need for a
detailed study to be carried out first in order to look at all the
technical and financial aspects of its implementation.
12.       The main objectives of the study are as follows:
o    to review the present set up of dyeing activities in our
manufacturing sector within the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and
to investigate the actual effect, if any, these activities are
having on the local environment;
o    to establish the present and future demand (over next five
years) for factory space from polluting and water intensive
activities, such as dyeing and leather processing, electronic,
jewellery, chemical processing, battery making, electroplating,
printing and publishing;
o    to establish the extent of land that would be required for this
project;
o    to review and identify the pollution hazards from sectors like
electronic, jewellery, chemical processing, battery making,
electroplating, printing and publishing and such other
activities corresponding to the diversification strategy of our
export manufacturing sector and which may be located on this
estate;
o    to establish with the Central Electricity Board, the Mauritius
Telecommunications Services and the Overseas Telecommunications
Services the timing for the provision of power, telephone, telex
and telefax services to the site to be developed;



Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
- 86 -
o    to consult authorities, such as the Ministry of Works, the
Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Local Government, the
Municipal or District Council Authorities, the Ministry of
Energy, Water Resources and Postal Services, the Central Water
Authority and the Government Fire Services, on statutory
requirements that world need to be taken into consideration In
the execution of such a development;
o    to establish clearly all the important infrastructural
facilities that would be required, vis, service reservoirs,
treatment plants, internal sewer network and mode of discharge
of treated effluent, on site laboratory for monitoring
individual tenants and all other relevant services;
o    to prepare a preliminary design for the outline scheme of the
whole project and explain clearly the approach to be followed
for the execution of this developments; and
o    to establish the techno-economic feasibility of this project on
the aforementioned recommended site, including recommendation
regarding a new tariff structure.
Sc"oe of Consultancy Services
13.       The consultants shall assume sole responsibility for the
execution of this study and shall ensue that only those members of his
personnel with the relevant experience and expertise in similar works are
deployed on this assignment.
14.       The involvement of MEDIA in the execution of this study would be
as followst
o    identifying relevant institutions ,,Ad organizations as may he
needed and requested by the Consultants and arranging all
appropriate meetings;
o    making available to the Consultants such relevant data and
information as it may have in its possession;
o    arranging for transportation to and from such meetings and for
any other internal visit relevant to the study; and
o    providing such office facilities as they may be available.
15.       Notwithstanding any opinion or views which may be glven by MEDIA
or any other party during the course of discussions, the Consultants shall
be solely responsible for the conclusions and recommendations contained in
their report.
16.       In the context of this study, the Consultant shall inter-alias
o    seek the views of the Ministry of Industry and Industrial
Technology, the Ministry of Housing, Lands and the Environment,
the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources
and Postal Services, the Ministry of Works and other relevant



Annex 5
V_ E
rase 4 of 5                     - 87 -
authorities concerned on the assessment and api, -%ensions with
regards to existing and proposed polluting induitries, including
dyeing operations, In the Mauritian Industrial Sector;
o    review, as far as practically possible, the different dyeing
compounds and other industrial chemicals that are being used
locally in textiles, leather, and other polluting industries
such as jewellery, electronic, chemical processing, battery
making, electroplating and printing and publishing and make an
assessment as to their level of toxicity;
o    review different types of pretreatment and treatment plants and
waste disposal techniques (land fill, Incineration, etc.) that
have been successfully used elsewhere to treat similar wastes
with particular reference to the sort of discharge that also
would be expected on the proposed estate and make
recommendations as tot
-    the most suitable effluent treatment system(s) for this
project;
-    pretreatment requirements;
-    the technical support required for the management of the
plant;
-    training that may be required for personnel manning the
plant; and
-   monitoring requirements.
O    carry out the overall physical planning of the area to be
developed and showing clearly the various recommended
infrastructural facilities, the proposed layout of factory
buildings which may be recommended by the consultants, the green
space recreation and public utility areas, and all such other
facilities as may be found necessary for the proper functioning
of such an estate;
o    recommend in clear terms the steps to be followed for the phased
development of the project;
o    produce details of analysis carried out to satisfy MEDIA that
infrastructural facilities provided will meet optimum
requirement;
o    carry out preliminary design of all major infrastructural
services to be provided on the selected site, including all
required off-site infrastructural measures such as final
effluent and solid waste disposal which need to be coordinated
with any existing or proposed development in the adjacent area;
o    produce in clear outline the landscaping proposed to embellish
the whole estate;
o    produce a set of recommendations on the primary effluent
treatment to be undertAken by operators on the estate, before
any discharge could be exfected;



Annex 5
-88a -                        Page 5 of 5
o    submit cost estimates, broken down in its various components,
for the implementation of the entire project;
o    provide a detailed operational plan (monitoring, maintenance,
etc.) to ensure that the entire infrastructure is properly
operated and maintained and provide a monitoring plan that will
guarantee such performance;
o    notwithstanding the above, carry out all additional
investigations and produce such details as may be found relevant
to this project in order to ensure completeness of the study.
Duration of Study
11.       The study is expected to last for a period of fou- months.
Instructions to Consultants
18.       The Consultaacs shall propose their fees to carry out this
study, based on the above Terms of Reference and covering such other
aspects which in their opinion, after discussion with MEDIA, are essential
for the completeness of the study. All other qualifications to the
consultancy proposal must be clearly stated.
19.       The Consultants shall submit the following information together
with their offers
o    a detailed work program, including organization and work
management plan including both local and overseas input, for
undertaking this study;
o    the names and curriculum vitae of those members of his staff who
will be working on this assignment;
o    the estimated completion period; and
o    comprehensive cost of consultancy services.
20.       The Consultants shall commence work on this study immediately
upon acceptance of their offer by the Government of Mauritius.
21.       The Consultants shall, upon completion of the study, submit five
(5) copies of a draft final report in English for discussions. The final
report shall be submitted in fifteen (15) copies not later than one month
after approval by the Government of Mauritius of the draft report.



Annex 6                             - 89 -
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Leasing Areas for Conservation Management
to Non-Governmental Crganizations - The Mauritian Experience
1.          Mauritius  has  taken  the  lead  among  countries  promoting
environmental protection in trying a new tool for conservation management,
leasing areas to non-governmental organizations. The Government does not give
up its sovereignty or its securitylpolice functions over the area but simply
agrees for a stated period of time, subject to lease cancellation for non-
performance, that the NGO will operate the area's conservation operations.
This tool allows NGOs to concentrate their resources on management plans for
the areas without burdening the human and financial resources of Government.
The tool also allows Government to moritor implementation of the lease at a
much lower cost than if it had to fund the conservation effort itself. For
NGOs the lease can be a powerful instrument for fund raising since it makes
the NGOs responsible for the efficiency of their conservation efforts and
ensures that the NGO has a formal commitment from Government. Fund raising is
often most effective where there is public sector commitment combined with
private sector efficiency.
2.          Ile aux Aigrettes, a 25 ha island off the southern end of
Mauritius, has unique flora and fauna, which has been endangered by illegal
woodcutters and the lack of environmental management. The Forestry Department
has not had in the past sufficient resources to maintain Ile aux Aigrettes as
an important conservation site and consequently the island has steadily
deteriorated. In the mid 1980s the Government of Mauritius granted the
Mauritius Wildlife Appeal Fund (MWAF), a local Non-Governmental Organization
dedicated to conservation, a 20 year lease for Ile aux Aigrettes. Using a
combination of its own resources and assistance from international NGOs,
local and international scientists have established a number of activities to
protect the island, including hiring watchmen to stop illegal woodcutting, a
program of weeding of exotic species to protect endemic specimens, and
several scientific programs including the release of Mauritius kestrels, bred
in the United States, on the island, and a successful effort to eradicate
rats. The fact that this was done by MWAF has not only improved the status
of Ile aux Aigrettes but has reduced the organizational and financial burden
on the Department of Forestry which has been able to concentrate its efforts
on other ob1ectives and areas of the country. Having a lease has enabled MWAF
to raise alditional funds since it could demonstrate the results or its own
efforts.
3.          In 1989 The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural
Resources and the Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust (JWPT) produced a five
year Management Plan for the Restoration of Round Island to carry on from the
previous success, recognized internationally as a model, to begin the
restoration process of this 151 ha island. The management plan sets out nine
goals:  (i)  establish  consistent  and  effective  precautions  against
introductions of alien animals. Access to the island should be by permit
only; (ii) attain either effective controls or eradication of all problem
weeds. Visits by management parties should be made three times a year for
the next five years; (iii) propagate and thus increase the numbers on the



- 90 -                          Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Island of the ten species of threatened native plants present including the
three endangered species of palm; (iv) reestablish hardwood species foncerly
present on the island; (v) establish on other rat-free islands wild
populations of threatened geckos, skinks and snakes now found only on Round
Island; (vi) search for and determine the habitat requirements of the
borrowing boa, introducing recovery measures if appropriate; (vii) survey the
invertebrate fauna of the island; (viii) establish viable populations of
carefully selected endangered plant species of lowland Mauritius in suitable
habitats on Round Island; and (ix) establish an on-going monitoring
programme, incorporating field trials where appropriate, that will measure
the effectiveness of all management and restoration techniques used on the
island.
4.          The cost of Implementing the management plan, including about UR
176,250 annually for weeding, would be borne by national and international
NGOs. MWAF is requesting Government to grant it a 20 year lease for
convervation activities on Round Island to Implement, Inter alia, the
Management Plan.   This would allow MWAF, assisted by JWPT, to use Its
resources more effectively than if channeled through Government and would
allow Government to use its resources on other high priority areas while
maintaining the right of the lessor to monitor the implementation of the
Management Plan. The lease grants Government the right to revoke the lease
If MWAF fails to live up to its obligations and does not Interfere with
Government's responsibility for security of the area.
5.          The proposed leasing arrangement for Round Island is being
discussed with Government.
Mauritius
Way 23, 1990



MAUR.TIUS
Environmental Monitoring and Development Proiect
Detailed Proiect Cost Table
G9x
WMC t       t 127                     Iqplc.                     Total  Jgelml                         CIvlt  rm$                          T W       sll    trs m       al   9
14p    ( tsnl   fauop    gmC4 b3l etatm coeultatdtdlosov  t (l         foIlp   trotlqnl    vimt  0h      5  Om  l    mw*iq.  lou
11.41b1tol A.loll kowmII Plk          DA      W7.=0  1.4771121 1.714.1W  1.30.11)  1IC.0I00 47.60         0         0        a   w.m   i,n4.m        me    W.8    UW4
ab4*l fw                                   1W.=   1,417W.   1.714.=           100.60   517.61)        0        0         0   2311.6  .1714.0    urn   W.m   ,.mstm
C.I6ull    -        MID am
Cl.owkwoo*uI ol *watpa
Cw&rao wlr ozN tJX "I UW       3v mu     U1.11 1.1141.101 I.6.1ew         a        0 o .17.3W    38.6 3n,c  342.6    1.0          S lo.w    PS     5 a    E113  2.23a
btearlwI      slnlu iatwy        136       119.40  1.=1.om  1.414.3W      0        0   910.41 018 la.601   2.66    4.3            0 1,414.65   3Am    3man   l,11m
NbaWi Flsklretol LUWdY           131      of.m   4m.a1   m11.m1           0        A    o0.40    e,.=5    HO.M       5O.X         o   m1.m111   jo.m    mO.m    1.1118
Dw'lmitwo fiwlrtassa l 1*        lUwa1  mu  3      M.w0   03.100 a6       0   0          1.=11    20 3.41    4.10     .111        0   W.16    3.,I    MaL         1.wm
s4htool lal                      o   51.63 4e.30  4.140.69W           0        0 39.3vD0   31.601   71.60   241.0            0 4.51.11   35.6    QM4  5.M.3
C2.0ratk  d SMursl2  PRft
sito blectom a, gulp             mIA      all=      3.60   613.631)       0   P70.6          0        0        0   O                 6             0   112. m    1M61
w.fttlaal %1ld " "I I IN
Onip of  Wsl fbiwy Ldill I 0"            23.15  223.1   23.60            0   20.40          0   O              0        0        0  O .405         0    41.11    31.10
lmu1mw . do Se3m So. Led fill  M.    1.UD.6  3.4m.0 5.013.00              0   110.35  1.111.180  1.131,10 1,2..110      0        0 5.01.w    244.13  U,2    60.7 
hilli1atie ad From&9 0n         in 8         35.60 12.6011  116.601      0        S   01.600         0        0         0   100.0   ROAR0   3.60    11511110    05.60       .
wtotl for C                             I2.M     o.0n.6,0 11.274.31)      0 1.06.00 4.1110160 a.64,6   3.6.0   2.601 1611   M        11,274.31    1m  2.4114.111 I1G. v
U. lMqsti4j fapt b    *So b          on        3L60   210.60   24.60    15.,o           0   124.56    I16.01 t 24.60    106                MAN       3.3      0111A1    33.61
*5-WaS IV S                               X3.      1W.3    24.60      15.01             124.6    3,1       24.6011 Io          .60     6.6 1111    2 IL5    0.61    3.
El.blm oSwIt _  t          F  Pla     M        11.     23.60   310.60   150.0)         0    41.600        0         S    905.6    3,60    1.         3.0    I=           .35
12.lat*lld ta  lerki Pat                      72.6011  350.60   33.60n1       S        0   2305.60    41.4601    4,o 3.11             0   133       fIlm     6.1        .1
1314.1.p   lNitS fti* i SoliAla, IbaIt. 1     541,61 1   .600   412.60        0   110.60a    M.210        0        o         0    3.31   411.60    1316M     3.6      m5.m
g             bOa 1bikOtls 1kM                    0    4.s       47.=05       0        0    41.15         0         a        0        0      3       2.31111,   1.36    3.34
-.-I
664 1  r I2                               M,=    01.130    4311D 150,D    ISO,"1 .=1N ,e $11.30    2.1111 111Z4.0    LO              .X=        M       21O  1,^"L
V.13319 111'
nSAIN.   ol0w btll  Aw                M      074,1  1474,10 2.4ao.o    366    2511.601  313.43)  O2.60    646    S5L611               0 2.430.11   65,60    P7.1I4  2,W.S1
Sb-toral aF                              674.611 1.746.30 2.420,0   360.40   231.00   313.40    31061)   8.6    11U=             a 2.42040       16 4m.714 2,,1.
WIO u   COST  IeCm                           3,8411.21 13, 151.35 56.5m.60 I.5.00  .5 A.111,6  1.2.0  2054.60  3.61.400   41.351111  454.0111 52.0 612  3.31.64 9.51l03
wit CO5T. 111111l0 I Iftl                  4.446.141 10.0S.203 20530.344 2.181.012 1.8B,535 7.1,9.60  ,243.517  4.612,25   W18754   16.1M 2751.341



Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
- 92 -
M&AUITIUS
Environmental MonitorinTg  and Develovment Proiect
Project Cost Estimates
(Base Cost in US$)
Locol         Foreign          Total        Financing
I.      PREPARATION OF NATIONAL
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
(a)  Technical Assistance:
physical planners t48 month.
transport planner (12 months
systems anays'y (18 months)
tourism economist *e months)
development economist (24 months)
infrastructure engIneer (24 months)
sub-total for (a)                                  o          1,320,000      1,320,00          IBRD
(b)  Consultants:
short term consultants                                0           100,000        lW00,00         IBRD
(c)  Eu Ilpmont:
micro computers, vehicles                             0            57,00W          57;000        IBRD
(d)  Other Local Staff:
head of unit (48 months)
physical planners (48 months)
statiscal assistant                            237,W0                   o        237,08          GOU
sub-total for (d):                           237,00                   0        237,000
sub-total for (I):                           287,000          1,477,0W       1,714,000
II. ESTABLISHWENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
LABORATORIES
(a)  Central Environmental Laboratory:
equipment                                             O           es3,9 W833,90                  IBRD
spare parts and Installation                          0           513,9W         513,9W          IORD
raining                                               0           102,100        1020 to          IBRD
building construction                          228,000            842,000        570,000         COM/IBRO
sub-total (a):                               228,00a          1,641,900      1,869,900
(b)  Water Quality Laboratory:
equipment                     O                                  543,4           43,400         IBRD
spare parts and installation                          0           366,400        366,400         IBRD
trakining                                             0            48,500         48,500         IBRD
building construction                          182,400            273,6w         456,000         GOM/IBRD
sub-total (b):                               182,400         1,2231,90       1,414,3W0
(c)  Health Quality Laboratory:
equipment                                             036803680                                  IR
sPare parts and Installation                          0           245S,00        245,5W          IBRD
training                                              0            so,200         50,200         IBRD
building construction                           91,200            186,80         228,000 oOM/IBRD
sub-total (c):                              91,200           829,400         920,600
(d)  Agricultural Quality Laboratory:
equipment                                             0           305 7ao        30S,700         IRD
spare parts and Installation                          0           213,300        213,300         IBRO
training                                              0            42,100         42,100         lORD
building construction                           80,000             45,00          7S,00          GOM/I8RD
sub-total for (d):                          30,000            600,100 t838,00
sub-total for (II):                        531,600         4,309,300       4,840,900
III.SITE SELECTION a DESIGN FOR AN IND. PARK
(a)  Study of 2 Alternative Sites;                   67,00             6083,000       670,000         G0M/lORD
detailed design A preparation
of tender documents for the
selected site



Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
Local     Foreign        Total          Financing
IV. NATIONAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
(a) Design A .Sup. of Arsenal Sanitary           23,700          226,760        260,400       GOL/I8RD
Landfill
(b) Im lementation of Arsenal Sanitary        1,608,000        8,433,00       5,013,000       GOY/IBRO
Landfill (excl. land acquis;t on)
(c) RehabiiltatTon of Present Dumpa             200,00           800,000        560,000       COal
sub-total for (SV):                     1,803,006        8,969,700     6,783,400
V. RESEARCH ON INTEGRATED PEST MAANAGEMENT
a  Technical Assistance                              0           16,000 we15,0               IBRD
bl Egui pment                                    0           124,600       124,600       I9RD
c  Clv I torks                                 6le,00           24,0O          40,000       GOM/IBRD
d  Training                                      6,000           45,500         50,500       COIIBRD
e  Other                                         16,000               0         16,000       COil
sub-total for (V):                         83,000          20s,0a0       246,000
VI. PREPARATION OF MARINE ENVTL. MOT. PLAN
a  Technical adviser (18 months)                     0           2100 20 1S0,000             ICOD
b  Equgipment (computers)                             0           20 WO          20 080      IBR
ic) ilat.erIal (dravi ng)                        20,000                0         20,000      GClO
Training                                                         50,000         0,000        ICOD
eOther:
aerial photography                           10,000               0         10 000       COil
remote sensing                                   0           15,000         15 000       IURD
ground truthing                              5,000                0         5:000        Gail
reparation of zonal plans                   80,000               0         80a00        coOi
local staffing                               10,000               0         10,000       GaIl
sub-total for ():                          56,000          1S,000         70,000
sub-total for (VI):                        75,000          236,000       810,000
VII.ESTABLISHIMENT OF MARINE PARKS
(a) Training                                          0           80,000         80,000       ICOD
'b) Equitpnt:
patro  boats (2)                                 0           6o,0           60,000       IBRD
radio conemnication                              0           10,000         1o,000       I8RD
-afety equipment                                 0            10,000        10,000 mIRD
fiber glass boat                                 0           150,000       1S0,000       I8RD
(c) Civil Works:
bouys, moorings, etc.                        10,000               0         10,000       CON
diving centers '82000                                        48,000         80,00        COMl/iRD
education material*                          80,000               0         30,000       COlr
sub-total for (VII)                        72,000          808,000       380,000
VIII. INVESTIGATION OF MARINE ESTUARIN
POLL. A MARINE ECOSYSTEM MONITOR:NQ
(a) Consultants:
Morine ecqaystel  (8 months)                     0           80,000         80,000       ICOD
marne po ,lution (  onths                        0            80,000        80,000       ICOD
sub-total for (a):                              0          110,000       110,000
(b) EguTpment:
dfving gear spectrophomter                  118,000           12,000       12S,000 ON/IRD
vehicles (2j                                     0           40,000         40,000       IERD
15-seater van, cargo van,
underwater camera                              a           100,00        100,0W        BR
outboard motors (2);
Inflatable boat                                0            Sine           6,000       IB
(c) Other:
Local Staffing                               82,000               0         82,000       cOI
sub-total for (VIII):                     145,000          267,000       412,000



Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
-94 -
Local     Foreign          Total           Financing
IX. OCEANOGRAPHIC DATA COLLECTION:
(a)  Wave Recording Instruments                           0            28,900         28,900        IORD
(b)  Spares an Mooring Hardware                           0            20,440         20,440         IBRD
sub-total for (IX)                                 0            47,340         47,340
X.  BLACK RIVER GORGES NATIONAL PARK
(a)  Technical Assistance:
project manager                                      0           300,000        300,000         IBRD
(6)  Consultants:
visitor services                                     0            46,000         46,000         IBRD
park warden/superintendent                           0            30,000         30,000        IBRD
surveys                                         18,000            27,000         45,000        GOM/IBRD
design                                          33,000            60,000         83,000        GOlD/IBRD
constructlon supervisor                         35,000            53,000         88,000        COI/18ORD
sub-total for (b)                             86,000           206,000        291,000
(c)  Civil Works:
visitor center/hq.                              24,000            38,000         80,000        GOlD/lORD
captive broed center                            48 000            72,000        120,000        CGOla/IBRD
maintenance/st9rage                              7,000            13,000          9,000        GOIJ/IBRD
util/rds/pkg/sate                               18,000            27,000         46,000        GOd/IBRD
Gorges development                              90,000           41,000         ,76000         GOi/I8RD
rmtrin ranger sts.                               9                46,13000       75,000        GOM/18RD
uoee *ads                                      lOB,OOO           16408,000      680,000        GOMl/IBRO
Resource Management:                            20,000            30,000         50,000        OWM/IORD
animal control                                   2,000             3,000         64,000         GOld/IBRD
trails and tracks                               10,000            16,000         26,000        GOI/IBROD
misc. barriers/gates                             5,000            10,000         16,000        GOII/IBRD
sub-total for (c)                            661,000           830,000      1,370,000
(d)  Training:
park conservator                                     0            43,000         43,000        IBRD
visitor ser. spec.                                   0            16,000         16,000        IBRD
resource mgt. spec.                                  0            27,000         27,000        IORD
park rangers                                         0            30,000         30,000        IBRO
sub-total for (d)                                  0           116,000        118,000
(e)  Equipment:
- coeps 4 x 4                                          O            80,000         80,000        T8RD
-ton lorry, 4x4, dbl cab.                            0            17,000         17,000        jORO
3-ton lorry                                          0            19,000         19,000
utility trailer                                  1,000             1,000           M,000       COII/BRD
trail b;ike                                          0            12,00         12,000         I8RD
camp trailers                                        0            46,000         46,000        I8RD
generators                                           0             6,000          6,000        I8RD
radios                                               0             65000          6,000        IBRD
office equipment & turntturo                    15,000            23,000         38,000        GOMiIORD
v ch equepmintm furniture                       20,000            43,000         63,000        IBRD
rvsearch quipt rnt                                   0            14,000         14,000        IBRD
field equipment and tooln                            0            12,000         12,000        IBRD
sub-total for (e)                             36,000           277,000        K3,000
sub-total for (X):                           674,0w           1,748,00      2,420,000
GRAND TOTAL:                               3,641,300       1?  1-,s30-0   18, ,802,600



Annex 8
- 95 -
MAURITIUS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1991     1992    1993 1 1994
Project Components                       _j _} _              r-     
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 l 2 3 4
(1)  National Physical Development Plan              _ _  _    _    -
(2)  Environmental Laboratories                        _ _ _ _ _
(3) Industrial Park:
- Design and Engineering
(4) Solid Waste Management Plan:
- Design of Arsenal Sanitary Landfill Site
- Implementation of Landfill
- Rehabilitation of Present Dumps
(5)  Integrated Pest Management & Research                 _-
(6) Marine Conservation
- Management Plans
- Marine Parks
- Health Study & Pollution Monitoring          _ _ -         -  _      _
- Ocean Data Collection                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(7)  Black River Gorges National Park               _ _ _ __ _i           __  



- 96 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Mauritius
Environmental Monitoring and Development Prolect
Project Supervision Plan
1.        Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for this project to require 3 staff-weeks during the first
project year and 4 staff-weeks per year during the remaining 4 years of
project implementation).
2.        Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)     at the end of March, June, September, and December of
each year.
(ii)     by the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) in
the Ministry of Environment and Land Use (MELU), which
will coordinate report preparation by the various
project implementing agencies.
(b) Project Monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility
of the Environment Protection Department (EPD), MELU. Review
meetings with the participation of the various project agencies
will be held normally every six months, i.e. mid-April and mid-
October of each year. The meetings will be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Land Use
(MELU).
(c) The Environment Protection Department (EPD) will be responsible
for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and
for providing information required by missions. Missions will
normally be accompanied by the Director, EPD.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will
normally be chaired by the Financial Secretary, Ministry of
Finance with the participation of the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Environment and Land Use, the Director of EPD and
representatives of project implementing agencies.
3.        NGO Participation.  Participation of NGOs in Bank supervision
mission is also envisaged. NGO input will be essential in the
implementation of the Black River Gorges National Park. A total of ten
staff weeks of NGO input is envisaged.



- 97 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
DM*l Supervision Input Into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                               Expected Skill                  Staff Input
(Month/Year)              Activity                     Requirements                   (Staff-Weeks)
2/91            Supervlsion mission                   Economics/Financial Analysis          S.0
(Project Launch Workshop)            Municipal Engineering
Procurement
Disbursement
Review of Detailed Plans for:                                               1.S
(a) Environmental Laboratories       Laboratory
(b) Black River National Park        Planning/Architectural
10/91           Suprvision Mission                    Economics/Financial Analysis          2.0
(to review start-up, and
implementation of
organizational arrangements)
Review of Plans for:                                                        8.0
(a) IPM Research Program             Agriculture
(b) Marine Conservation              Marine Biology
(c) NPDP                             Planning
3/92            Supervistoo mission                   Economics/Financial Anaiysls          6.0
Agriculture
11/92           Superviston Mission                   Financial Analysis                    6.0
and Mid-Term Review                  Engineering
Planning
1093            Two Superviston Missions              Economics/Financial Analysis          12.0
Engineering
1994            Two Suprvision Miesions               Economics/Financial Analysis          12.0
Agriculture/Engineering
1905            Supervislon mission                   Economics/Financial Analysis          6.6
Planning
Engineering
1996            Supervision Mission                   Economics/Financial Analysis          6.9
(including to prepare PCR)           Engineering



MAURITIUS
ENVRONMENTAL MONITORING & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR EPDIHELU
ruCOfu        - --------        E L    U            ArIM            1
pluc, I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~p                                                           iuio
1 on  I                   me               I~~~~~~~ a)c.        a    SWOF        4 w.
~ limit II Piemiug           aI.  F                                I SaC. OFFIe.      I        Sw.  4., Of1ctST
_ad _  I.      _       -Off
Unit       r ,dpt.d to 1990-.1



- 99 -
LIS OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE
W- THlE PROJECI FILE
A Management Plan for the Restoration of Round Island, Mauritius,
prepared by Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust at the request of,
and with the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Natural Resources, Mauritius. By D.V. Merton, I.A.E. Atlinson,
W. Strahm, C. Jones, R.A. Empson, Y. Mungroo, E. Dulloo and R. Lewis (1989)
Bassin Blanc - Its Importance and Conservation
The Establishment of a Botanic Garden in Rodrigues
A report prepared for the GOM by the Food & Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations, based on the work of Ms. Wendy A. Strahm
Conservation of Endemic Plants of Mauritius and Rodrigues,
Progress Report on WWF/IUCN Project 3149 by Wendy Strahm (March 1, 1989 -
September 30, 1989)
Proceedings of the Royal Society of Arts and Sciences of Mauritius,
Sessions 1983-1987, Volume V, Part 1, 1988.
- A Draft Bill for a National Parks Act, by Franklin Work (February 18, 1990)
Etude de la tarification de rassainissement a l'ile Maurice (November 1981)
National Environmental Action Plan for Mauritius by M. Rathnam, B. Baratz,
J. Post (March 1, 1990)
Sustainable Industrial Development, UNEP -Report No. ISSN. 0378-9993, Vol. 12
No. 3-4, (July - December 1989)
Mauritius Environmental Protection Progrmme Technical Seminar Report of
Proceedings, a seminar organized jointly by the Ministry of Housing, Lands
and the Environment and the World Bank, with the assistance of the UNDP
(September 12-15, 1988).
Conservation of the Native Passerines of Mauritius



IBRD 22665
MAURMUS
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- __ -Trvunk Roads
Aw,fl Roods
Otier Makn Roads                                                      St A
Built ULp Areas
S4or Camr
{                                   B~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~ALACLAVA  /                    /         >
fJ;~  ; PttposedProjectS es         MARINEPAIK M/\ 
Forests anid S(rkbImd       ASNLRW
*                      Fsonnytodsen!bl:r     SAM          7AR)Y LP5Nttoy_
Alhtudes Oer 1000 Feet
;  Z 3  z  *   s jriO~~RT LOUIS                     -  7        -                      )  
Aoor*ooor     Pbr'd.ons                                          \  I   
-         ~~~ALTERNAIVE If
Tero
<_,'.~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '.. b'._/r/''.,\                doeO r005005. ra,. yt0~W
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*0,1                                    ao.r  / O     .OUt  007W0 *00005   mY   tflOo 
:~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80 .nr.o .w ;rin .oReds. ner, /rc .50'
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d to 0., vor ,O;. 100 8. - 0                     .oiOddW fCto 
/  ;<  i.  ............. ~t~'Ss V / J----.___......................o. cut.s.o...  ros.... -   do.fl..00o..................... ss) ,
Rche we    A   \   W  S %s sosPER
,   H.a.~~PRK,,ay.,                                                            AL,  s
ip                                                                     .A)\  , X.X    \.-    A 
bvr  ) -           /   __ .  9   J r de
SEPTEM%BER 19f90



