Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14412
DMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WESTERN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2904-IN)
APRIL 18, 1995
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         =            Rupee (Rs)
The exchange rate between the Rupee and the US dollar (US$) during the project period was as
follows:
Year        Rs/US$
1988/89     14.5
1989/90     16.7
1990/91     17.9
1991/92     24.5
1992/93     28.9
1993/94     31.4
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton (t)                      =            1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic meter (cm)                    =            35.3 cubic feet (cft)
1 barrel (bbl)                        =            0.159 cubic meter
1 metric ton of oil (330 API)         =            7.3 barrels
1 metric ton of condensate (56° API)  =            8.3 barrels
1 metric ton of gas liquids (LPG and NGL) =        9.1 barrels
ACRONYMS USED
GAIL               =     Gas Authority of India Limited
GOI                =     Government of India
HBL                =     Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (Gas Pipeline)
OIL                =     Oil India Limited
ONGC               =     Oil and Natural Gas Commission
MEASUREMENT ABBREVIATIONS
cm                 =     cubic meters
mcm                =     thousand cubic meters
mmcm               =     million cubic meters
bcm                =     billion cubic meters
mmcm/d             =     million cubic meters per day
mmtoe              =     million metric tons of oil equivalent
mmnt               =     million metric tons
mmt/y              =     millions of tons per year
toe                =     metric ton of oil equivalent
t                  =     metric ton
t/d                =     metric ton per day
t/y                =     metric ton per year
OTHER ABBREVIATIONS
ERR                =     Economic Rate-of-Return
LPG                =     Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGL                =     Natural Gas Liquids
PMP                =     Pressure Maintenance Program
SBM                =     Single-Buoy Mooring System
WIF                =     Water-Injection Facility
SAR                =     Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
P reface   ..........................................................                                                              i
Evaluation              Summary .................                        .......................................... i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................... 1
Evaluation    of   Project   Objectives ..........................................................                                 1
Project   Context ...........................................................1
Accelerating  Gas  Field  Development and  Production .....................................1
Identifying Gas Markets and Improving Gas Development Planning .................. 2
Project    Achievements ..........................................................                                                 3
Overview  ..........................................................                                                    3
Physical   Objectives ..........................................................                                        3
Gas  Sector  Planning   and   Pricing   Policy .................................................... 4
Economic    Performance ..........................................................                                      4
Financial  Objectives   for   ONGC ..........................................................   4
Macroeconomic    Impact ..........................................................                                      4
Institutional Development . .......................................................... 5
Environmental   Protection ..........................................................                                   5
Major   Factors   Affecting   Project   Performance ........................................... 5
Factors  Within  the  Scope  of Government Control ........................................ S
Factors  Within  the  Scope  of  ONGC   Control .............................................. 6
Factors   Outside   the   Project ..........................................................                             7
Sustainability ..........................................................                                                          7
Bank   Performance ..........................................................                                                      7
Borrower             Performance ..........................................................                                        7
Assessment   of   Outcome ..........................................................                                               8
Future          Operations ..........................................................                                              8
Main    Findings   and   Lessons   Learned    .......................................................  9
PART     II:   STATISTICAL     ANNEXES ....................................................... 11
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments                                                           .11
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3:  Project Timetable .12
Table 4:              Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated                                       .           13
Table 5:              Key Indicators for Project Implementation .13
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .13
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .13
Table 8A: Project Costs .14
Table 8B:  Project Financing .14
Table 8C:   Project Financing IBRD Categories .15
Table 9:  Economic Evaluation .15
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .16
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.                                                                               17
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions.                                                                                     17
Appendices ..........................................................                                                              18
Appendix 1:  Contribution of the Borrower's Implementing Agency ................ 19
Appendix 2:    Map   of  the   Project  Area .................................................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WESTERN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROTECT (LOAN NO. 2904-IN'
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Western Gas Development
Project in India, for which Loan 2904-IN in the amount of US$295 million equivalent was
approved on February 22, 1988 and made effective on September 2, 1988.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, the original scheduled closing date. The loan was
fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place on July 20, 1992. No co-financing was
involved.
The ICR was prepared by H. Morsli, of the Industry and Energy Department Oil and Gas
Division (IENOG), who was the Task Manager throughout the Project, and reviewed by J. F.
Bauer, Chief India Energy Operations (SA2EG), and Mrs. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor
(SA2DR).
Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by preparing its own project evaluation.






ii
WESTERN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 2904-IN
INDIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    At the time of project appraisal in 1986, India's industrializing economy had a high energy
intensity, despite conservation efforts, and economic growth prospects through the 1990s indicated a
large gap between domestic petroleum demand and supply. Forecasts showed a doubling of petroleum
demand from approximately 40 million tons (mmt) in 1986/87 to roughly 80 mnit in 2000, while
output from the Bombay High oil field which supplied about 70 percent of the country's domestic oil
production was expected to decline by an annual rate of eight to ten percent, beginning in the mid-
1990s. To meet additional demand and avoid major increases in the country's oil import bill, a key
element in the energy sector strategy of the Government of India (GOI) was to supported the
substitution of domestic gas for imported oil, making use of flared gas and substantial untapped gas
reserves (paras. 1 and 2). However, several major constraints to gas development existed: (a) lack of
sufficient production and transmission infrastructure; (b) need for further resource evaluation; (c)
market development uncertainties; and (d) an inadequate institutional framework for sector
development. Having financed four projects for oil and gas development during 1981-1984 (para. 3),
the Bank had acquired considerable experience in working with India's petroleum sector prior to the
Western Gas Development Project (the Project). The Project built upon favorable technical results
from previous projects and launched a dialogue between the Bank and GOI to focus on gas marketing,
long-term development planning and pricing. Furthermore, the Project took place at a time when GOI
was moving toward developing partnerships with the private sector to promote greater efficiency in oil
and gas sector operations and increased resource mobilization.
Objectives
ii.    The Project had .wo major objectives. The first was to assist GOI appraise, develop and
produce natural gas reserves in the Bombay offshore areas and in the onshore oil and gas fields in
Gujarat State. This objective was reasonable given the physical constraints India faced on the
production side of gas development. To meet this objective the Project included the following
components: (a) Phase II in the development of the offshore South Bassein field; (b) the construction
of a pipeline from the offshore Heera oil and gas field to the Uran gas terminal serving the Bombay
market, making use of gas that was being flared; (c) appraisal and initial development drilling of the
Gandhar field; and (d) evaluation of offshore reserves in the Tapti and Hazira fields for future
development. The Project effectively mitigated risks of not meeting these objectives by careful
selection of fields for development, conservative production assumptions and sensitivity analyses of
the Project's economic benefits (paras. 2-4). The Project's second objective was to help GOI launch a
long-term development plan for the gas sector to ensure gas use in sectors yielding the greatest
economic benefit. For this purpose, the Project included funds for detailed sector studies to coordinate
the demand and supply aspects of gas development (para. 5). These studies were appropriate given
the early stage of gas sector development. To further support sector development objectives the
Project included covenants to ensure regular reporting on the status of market development and
reviews of oil and gas prices in relation to the financial viability of the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission of India (ONGC), the Implementing Agency for the Project.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   The Project surpassed its original physical objectives for gas development. Higher than
originally anticipated incremental gas and liquids production during Project implementation (1988-94)
indicates that output over the life of the Project will be about 126 million tons of oil equivalent (toe)
instead of 68 million toe, the estimate at project appraisal. The re-estimated economic rate-of-return
(ERR) on the project is 94 percent, compared to the appraisal estimate of 72 percent (Table 9). Paras.



iii
9-13 of the ICR review the results of Project components in terms of meeting physical production
targets. The Project's current annual incremental production, about 7.7 million toe, represents around
26 percent of India's current oil imports.
iv.   During the evaluation of gas reserves at Tapti and Hazira offshore fields, a reassessment of the
required seismic and drilling programs indicated that the cost involved would be much higher than the
budgeted cost and that the original work plan would have resulted in an incomplete evaluation.
Therefore, in consultation with GOI and the Bank, ONGC promoted both fields to private participation
instead of using project funds. These fields were included in recent petroleum licensing rounds and
ONGC is currently negotiating contracts for field evaluation and development with a consortium of
local and private companies.
v.    The Project made some progress in improving gas marketing, development planning and
pricing policy. However, GOI did not use funds designated by the Project for detailed studies to
promote long-term planning. In compliance with the related project covenant, the gas-producing
companies, ONGC, Oil India, Limited (OIL) and Gas Authority of India, Limited (GAIL), initiated an
annual three-year rolling gas development plan. However, they did not maintain this activity
throughout the Project. Furthermore, GOI conducted a pricing study in 1990 which recommended a
move towards market-based pricing instead of a government-controlled pricing system. However,
although an initial price adjustment was made following the study, GOI did not fully sustain the
study's recommendations.
vi.   The Project made appreciable contributions in the promotion of environmental protection and
the expansion of private-sector participation in ONGC's operational activities, despite no such explicit
project objectives. The Project took measures to protect the environment in both the design of its
drilling operations and in the clean-up measures for these operations (para. 19). It also promoted
private sector involvement in ONGC's operations by demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of
contracting out drilling and other well-related services for the appraisal and initial development of the
Gandhar field (para. 18).
vii.   The main factor within the control of GOI which had an adverse effect on the Project's
implementation was the recurrent problem of delays that resulted from GOI's complex, bureaucratic
procurement process. There are two aspects of the process that led to these delays. First, instead of
decentralizinig the procurement process for greater efficiency as originally planned GOI exercised
excessive centralized control over the process through a complex series of committees. Second, there
was a large turnover of procurement officers during the Project's implementation period, which broke
the continuity of the process and caused protracted disagreements between ONGC, on one side, and
contractors and suppliers, on the other side. These procurement problems delayed most project
components by about a year, resulted in mis-procurement of one component (Table 8C), and (along
with other problematic administrative procedures) contributed to the cancellation of another project
component (para. 21). Factors which enhanced the outcome of the Project were: (a) the use of a
pressure maintenance system to increase liquids production from the Gandhar field (paras. 12 and 23);
(b) lower than originally anticipated project costs (paras. 9 and 26); and (c) considerable savings to
ONGC which resulted from the Bank's agreement to finance the construction of both the oil pipeline
and the gas pipeline from Heera to Uran (para. 24 ).
viii.  The assessment of the Project's outcome, overall, is highly satisfactory. The Project closed as
originally planned, on June 30, 1994 ( Table 3). Project costs totaled US$653 million, much lower
than the expected cost of about US$ 1.1 billion. The lower cost primarily resulted from declines in
prices of oil industry goods and services worldwide. The Bank disbursed the full amount of the
US$265 million loan. Table 4 outlines the schedule of disbursements.
Main Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
ix.   Accelerating Gas Resource Development and Production. The main findings are as follows:
(a) there is considerable demand for gas in India; (b) gas development projects are cost-effective; (c)
the execution of the technical aspects of gas development are well within the capability of ONGC; and



iv
(d) privatization of oil and gas field services improved technical performance and reduced costs. The
Project's physical results were very favorable, despite procurement problems which lowered the
efficiency of project execution. Current production levels and projections from ONGC indicate that the
output of gas, condensate and gas liquids should be fully sustainable at least through 2006 (para. 27).
The related lessons learned from the Project (para. 37) are:
(a) Careful field selection and preparatory work are important to project
performance. Gas development work under the Project proved to be very cost-effective
because of the Project's focus on well-established fields, which were subject to considerable
advanced preparatory work by ONGC.
(b) There is a need to focus on the causes of procurement difficulties in India.
Given limited supervision time, the Bank focused only on removing specific bottlenecks
blocking individual project components. To alleviate some procurement problems, the Bank
and GOI have agreed on standardized bidding documentation and the initiation of a bidding
process for critical items before the presentation of a project to the Board.
(c) The use of technical assistance for onsite managerial and operational
expertise can be extremely beneficial to project performance. Technical assistance
helped ONGC improve its performance under the Project, especially in the area of onshore
operations, which had been neglected for some time.
(d) The coordination of a project's implementation work should receive high
priority in project preparation and timing. During the two-year lag time between the
Project's appraisal and its effectiveness, the ONGC team involved in appraisal which was also
to handle implementation moved on to other company assignments and coordination difficulties
resulted.
(e) Contracting out specialized services to the private sector can improve
technical performance and cost effectiveness. The favorable experience associated
with using private companies to supply specialized drilling services for the Gandar field
convinced ONGC of the effectiveness of such partnerships.
x,.    Due to the success of the Project, the Bank and GOI launched a follow-up operation, the Gas
Flaring Reduction Project, begun in 1991. This project's objectives are to: (a) eliminate gas flaring
from the Bombay High oil and gas field; and (b) assist ONGC in the construction of a second gas
trunkline, designed to allow ONGC to recover gas from other fields adjacent to the Bombay High
field, as well as from the South Bassein gas field (para. 35). In addition, ONGC obtained a loan from
the Asian Development Bank to implement a second phase in the development of the Gandhar field
(para. 36). The Gas Flaring Reduction Project incorporated most of the above lessons in its design.
Notably, this project agreement contains covenants to: (a) review the procurement process and the
organization of the project's implementation; (b) establish well-coordinated project implementation
units; and (c) promote further private-sector involvement in the oil and gas sector.
xi.   Gas Sector Development Planning and Pricing. The Bank had hoped to convince GOI to
move away from central control over gas allocation and pricing to a market-based system that better
reflects the value of gas to the economy. This objective was intended to be implemented through
the Project's component for planning studies and the covenants for regular reporting on progress in
planning and pricing. However, GOI decided not to do the long-term development planning
studies originally planned under the Project. Furthermore, GOI did not regularly update and report
on its planning according to the specifications of the Loan Agreement (Table 10). Thus, despite
some initial interest, GOI did not move toward a market-based system as quickly as the Bank had
envisaged. The main lesson learned is that the Bank and GOI should have formulated clear
progress indicators taking into account GOI's preference for a gradual approach toward
liberalization and the Bank's concerns about ensuring the efficient development of gas resources.






1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
EVALUATION OF PROTECT OBJECTIVES
Project Context
1.    The Western Gas Development Project (the Project) supported the policy of the
Government of India (GOI) to promote gas development to satisfy the increasing energy needs of
India's industrializing economy. At the time of project appraisal in 1986, India's economy showed
significant energy intensity. Petroleum demand was growing at approximately six percent per
annum compared to economic growth of around five percent. India had an estimated 1.35 billion
tons of oil equivalent (toe) in commercially recoverable oil and gas reserves. Petroleum product
consumption was about 43 million tons (mrnt) annually compared to crude oil production of about
30 mmt. Oil imports were used to meet the supply gap and they accounted for 30 percent of oil
consumption. India was facing the possibility of major increases in these imports due to: (a)
expected declines in production from the Bombay High oil field, which provided 70 percent of the
country's oil supply; (b) projected continuation of high oil demand growth despite conservation
efforts; and (c) limited petroleum exploration success. During the preparation of the Project, as
part of a strategy to support the substitution of domestic gas for imported oil GOI constructed the
Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (HBJ) Pipeline to bring natural gas from the Bombay offshore fields to
markets in the northwestern part of the country. The Project also took place at a time when GOI
was moving toward partnerships with the private sector to improve operational efficiency in the oil
and gas sector and increase resource mobilization. The Project's design built upon successful
technical results in four previous Bank projects and expanded Bank involvement in the areas of gas
marketing, long-term development planning and pricing. The Project's main objectives are
evaluated in the following sections: (a) accelerating natural gas field development and production;
and (b) identifying new gas markets and improving gas development planning.
Accelerating Gas Field Development and Production
2.     India had three established gas-producing areas at the time of project appraisal: western
offshore fields and onshore fields in Gujarat and Assam (see map attached as Appendix 2). The
estimated total recoverable reserves of these fields amounted to 680 billion cubic meters (bcm),
with an annual production capacity of 26.9 million cubic meters per day (mmcm/d), equivalent to
539 mnillion toe. The western offshore field contained 80 percent of recoverable gas reserves and
74 percent of gas production. Project appraisal estimates indicated that natural gas production over
the decade beginning in 1987 could rise to 45-60 mrnmcm/d, equivalent to 13-17 mmtoe per year or
about one half of India's crude oil production in 1987. However, there were several constraints to
bringing existing reserves into production: (a) the absence of transmission infrastructure; (b)
insufficient production facilities; and (c) the need for further resource evaluation.
3.    The Project responded reasonably to gas resource constraints with two objectives on the
production side of gas development. The first objective was to increase gas production from fields
with recoverable reserves through three project components: (a) Phase II development of the South
Bassein offshore field, to double gas production capacity from 10 mmcm/d to 20 mmcm/d; (b) the
construction of a pipeline from the offshore Heera oil and gas field to the Uran gas terminal serving
Bombay, to transport gas that was being flared; and (c) appraisal of and initial development drilling
in the Gandhar field. The second objective was to evaluate, through a field evaluation program,
gas reserves for future development in the offshore North Tapti and Hazira fields. This program
was to consist of seismic surveys, seismic data interpretation and some appraisal drilling. The
implementation of these objectives was well within the capabilities of the Borrower's Implementing
Agency, the Oil and Natural Gas Commission of India (ONGC), which had experience in all of
these activities and had been the recipient of four Bank loans (totaling US$1.18 billion) in the
petroleum sector since 1979.



2
4.     The major risks in meeting the Project's production objectives were: (a) uncertainties
about the commercial viability of proven gas reserves; (b) the possibility of a sharp decline in the
international price of oil; and (c) a policy for gas-pricing and allocation that neither promoted the
best use of natural gas nor encouraged its efficient development. To adequately minimize these
risks the Project's appraisal work (a) focused on well-established fields and used conservative
assumptions about expected production; (b) prepared sensitivity analyses of the Project's economic
viability based on oil prices as low as US$12 per barrel; and (c) provided a special component for
marketing and development planning studies along with covenants to support regular reviews of
gas sector development (Table 10). There were no major changes in project objectives on the
production side, although there were a few changes in individual project components in response
to project findings and the availability of funds. Herein, paras. 21, 24 and 25 outline these
changes.
Identifying Gas Markets and Improving Gas Development Planning
5.     At project appraisal, estimated gas use was about 12.4 mmcm/d (3.6 million toe
annually). The fertilizer industry was the main consumer, along with some other industries in the
Bombay area. However, GOI had not yet made a detailed review of potential gas markets or
established long-term development plans for gas resources. Thus, in addition to meeting physical
production targets, an important project objective was to continue Bank dialogue with GOI on gas
development policy and planning. In addition, since at project appraisal prices played little or no
role in signaling to gas-consuming industries the real value of gas, the Project also intended to
assist GOI in developing adequate pricing and contractual arrangements to promote gas use.
6.    The Project provided for a study of long-term gas sector planning to support optimum
production and utilization of the Western Gas resource base. The scope of the study which the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proposed was comprehensive and appropriate to support the large
investments required for gas substitution. On the production side, the planning study was to: (a)
review reserves and potential production profiles; (b) identify various development options and
their related operating costs; and (c) select, on the basis of findings from the gas utilization part of
the study, the least-cost program for developing gas resources over a 20-year period. The study
was to prepare high, low and medium gas-supply scenarios for gas utilization. To develop these
scenarios the study was to identify details about potential gas users in the Bombay and Gujarat
areas, such as the volumes of gas they could consume, the costs of gas conversion and the
approximate prices that would encourage gas conversion. Then the study was to estimate the
economic value of gas for each use, accounting for the fuel replaced, and evaluate related operating
costs and environmental benefits (net-back value). ONGC had the capacity to handle the
production side of the planning study with some specialized technical inputs from domestic or
foreign specialists for complex or marginal fields. The Gas Authority of India, Limited (GAIL),
the state-owned gas transmission and distribution company, had sufficient expertise to conduct the
studies on gas utilization. GOI's Gas Coordination Committee was an appropriate body to
coordinate both the production and utilization aspects of the study.
7.    The Project also included several covenants that were reasonable for ensuring GOI's
continued attention to the Project's objectives for marketing and planning. It provided for GOI to
submit to the Bank an annual report on gas marketing, covering a three-year period and addressing
the steps necessary to ensure the connection of sufficient users and thus sustain a high capacity-
utilization rate for the gas produced. GOI also confirmed that it would make arrangements to
coordinate ONGC's production planning efforts with GAIL's utilization planning efforts, either
through GOI's Gas Coordinating Committee or another appropriate authority.
8.    At the time of project appraisal, the Bank and GOI recognized that the expected production
of large quantities of associated gas resulting from the Project would require GOI to establish a
more comprehensive pricing policy. Policy discussions between GOI and the Bank led to the
following principles for gas pricing: (a) linkage of the gas price to the price of fuel or feedstock



3
replaced; (b) a simple price structure with uniform prices along the (HBJ) pipeline; and (c) a fair
return on costs to the operator of the pipeline, GAIL. Based on these principles, GOI developed
the following set of gas prices: (a) Rs 1400 per thousand cubic meters (mcm) for gas at the
transmission system gate for both offshore and onshore gas; (b) Rs 2250/mcm for gas supplied
along the HBJ pipeline; and (c) Rs 500-1000/mcm in Assam, where there was a surplus of
associated gas. To insure proper pricing policy between ONGC, as producer, and GAIL as
distributor, the Bank requested GOI to provide the Bank with the contractual basis for the
provision of gas by ONGC to GAIL. This measure was reasonable to ensure that pricing termns
provided ONGC with adequate remuneration to allow the company to meet financial covenants of
the Project and ensure the financial autonomy of GAIL.
PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
Overview
9.     The Project surpassed its original objectives for gas production. It also made some initial
progress in gas development planning and pricing. However, during the Project's implementation
the Bank realized that it would be difficult to bring about far-reaching gas sector changes within the
scope of one project; the follow-up Gas Flaring Reduction Project contains specific provisions
supporting economic gas development and pricing. The Project closed on the original date
planned, June 30, 1994, as Table 3 notes. Table 5 outlines the Project's implementation
indicators. Project costs, which totaled US$653 million, were much lower than the expected cost
of about US$1.1 billion due to declines in the cost of oil industry goods and services worldwide
(Table 8A). The Bank disbursed the full amount of the loan, US$295 million, for the Project and
Table 4 provides the schedule of disbursements over the project period; Table 8C shows
disbursement by category. The Project met the major objectives outlined in paras. 2-8. The
following review of Project achievements covers: (a) physical objectives; (b) gas-sector planning
and pricing policy; (c) economic performance; (d) financial objectives for the Implementing
Agency, ONGC; (e) macroeconomic impact; (f) institutional development; and (g) environmental
protection.
Physical Objectives
10.   South Bassein Field Development. The completion of development infrastructure for the
offshore South Bassein field and the related Hazira onshore gas-processing facility has resulted in
a net annual incremental production of 10 mmcm/d. The Project did not install the planned single-
buoy mooring system (SBM) at Hazira for loading natural gas liquids (NGL) from the gas
processing facility onto tankers for transport to the Bombay refinery. The deletion of this
component from the Project resulted from protracted Government administrative procedures
associated with procurement of the SBM and with obtaining the necessary construction permit
from state agencies. The SBM was then relocated outside the Project's area of operation.
11.   Heera-Uran Gas Pipeline. The Project supported construction of a 26-inch, 100-kilometer
(km) pipeline to transport associated gas from the Heera oil and gas field to the Bombay gas
market. Prior to the Project, ONGC was flaring 1.2 mmcm/d of associated gas but, as a result of
the pipeline, this gas is now available for use by consumers in the Bombay area. There was a
delay of one year in the construction of the pipeline because of lengthy procurement procedures.
12.   Appraisal of the Gandhar Gas Field. The original appraisal program in the Project called
for drilling 115 appraisal and development wells. By the effectiveness date of the loan, the field
appraisal program was already fairly advanced and the Project ultimately drilled a total of 147
wells. However, due to the special characteristics of the reservoir no more than 120 wells are
producing at a given time in order to maximize the recovery of condensate, which has a higher
market value than gas. Daily production per well averages about 270 mcm of gas and 31 metric
tons (t) of oil condensate, compared to the respective appraisal estimates of 180 mcm of gas and
17.5 t of condensate. The initial field appraisal work showed a tendency toward rapid depletion



4
and established the need for a pressure maintenance program (PMP), injecting water into the field
to keep the pressure up and prevent irretrievable resource loss. This program began on a pilot
basis in 1991-92. After satisfactory results, ONGC decided to expand the PMP to most of the
producing areas of the field. The facilities for this expansion were completed in the summer of
1994. The preparation of the program took longer than ONGC originally planned because of the
need to resolve related water issues with GOI (para. 23). In the interim between the pilot testing
and the full-scale injection program, ONGC limited field production to maximize condensate
recovery.
13.   Reserve Evaluation of the Hazira and North Tapti Fields. The evaluation of these fields
formed part of ONGC's long-term development plan for the Bombay offshore fields, but it turned
out that the necessary financial resources required were much higher than what ONGC had
budgeted. Instead of using funds from the Project for the evaluation work, ONGC, in consultation
with the Bank, decided to open field evaluation of these areas to interested private-sector
companies. These fields were part of recent petroleum licensing rounds and contracts are currently
being negotiated with international oil companies.
Gas Sector Planning and Pricing Policy
14.   GOI did not use funds from the Project to do long-term planning studies for gas
development, nor did GOI fully comply with related covenants (para. 33 and Table 10). However,
GOI appointed an inter-ministerial committee to review various options for changing the basis of
pricing from government directive to a market mechanism subject to the basic principles outlined in
paras. 7-8. The committee held discussions with gas producers and consumers on various pricing
issues and submitted its findings to GOI in a report in 1990, which GOI shared with the Bank.
The report recommended: (a) a uniform gas price for consumers along the HBJ pipeline; (b) gas
prices to the consumer based mainly on heavy fuel oil but including the prices of other products
such as diesel oil; and (c) periodic price reviews in response to international prices for replacement
products. As a result, GOI increased the price of gas per mcm at the offshore and onshore
transmission gate from Rs 1400 to Rs 1500 in 1992. At that time, the increase brought the price
close to its economic price, the international price of fuel oil. However, the domestic price has not
kept pace with the international price since that time because of the significant devaluation of the
Rupee.
Economic Performance
15.   The Project's appraisal estimated an economic rate-of-return (ERR) of 72 percent for its
three physical components: (a) the second phase in the development of the South Bassein gas field;
(b) the appraisal and initial development of the Gandhar gas field; and (c) the construction of the
Heera-Uran gas pipeline. Based on the results of the Project, the ICR has re-estimated the ERR at
94 percent (Table 9). The main reason for the overall higher ERR is that the favorable impact of
lower project costs and higher production levels far outweighed the adverse impact of lower oil
prices during the project period. Table 9 outlines the major costs and benefits associated with the
re-estimated ERR.
Financial Objectives for ONGC
16.   ONGC remained financially viable during the project period. It adhered to the Project's
financial covenants by maintaining a current ratio greater than 1:2; debt service coverage at 1.5
times or higher; and a debt to equity ratio of not more than 60:40.
Macroeconomic Impact
17.   By supporting the substitution of domestic gas for imported oil the Project had a favorable
macroeconomic impact, avoiding additional foreign exchange expenditure on oil that would have



5
been required in the absence of production from the Project. The use of previously flared
associated gas and the production of new gas and liquids from the Project amount to 7.7 million
toe/year, equivalent to about 26 percent of current oil imports.
Institutional Development
18.    The Project included measures to strengthen ONGC's onshore drilling operations in the
Baroda office, which supervised the Gandhar field appraisal by contracting out these services to
private companies specializing in these operations. At the same time, the Project helped train
ONGC staff to supervise private drilling and other field activities, such as well cementing and
rehabilitation, along with general services, such as the building of access roads to field operations.
The use of these private services decreased the overall cost of field services and encouraged ONGC
to seek further cost-effective partnerships with the private sector.
Environmental Protection
19.   Although the Project did not have explicit objectives for environmental improvements, it
did include several measures to protect the environment: (a) treating formation water in the
Gandhar field and offshore fields; (b) monitoring effluent water subject to the standards of the
Indian Minimum National Standard Regulations (MINAS), which are at least as strict as those
governing oil production in the North Sea; and (c) establishing the requirement for ONGC to
ensure that contractors for the Project clean up any additional drilling fluid or chemicals, and
reclaim any land not required for production. Furthermore, the Project helped establish multi-
directional drilling at given drilling sites, which minimized the use of land in drilling operations by
as much as 60-70 percent.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Factors Within the Scope of Government Control
20.   Procurement Procedures. Recurrent procurement problems throughout the Project's
implementation were largely responsible for delays in almost all of the Project's components and
the mis-procurement of the Hazira compressor station. There were two main problems. The first
was excessive government control over the process. Procurement operations were supposed to be
decentralized, with regional management in charge of most decision-making, except in the case of
large contractors, which required the approval of ONGC's headquarters. Instead, all tendering
passed through as many as five committees within ONGC, with the final stage of the process
requiring the review of one or two inter-ministerial government committees, depending on the
importance of the procurement package. The operating procedures of these committees were
especially cumbersome. For example, all members of the committee had to be present for the
review. If one committee member was not available for some reason, the entire process was
disrupted. Furthermore, high-level officers often appointed new committees which would send the
tender evaluation back down the committee-approval chain for the entire process to begin again.
The second problem in the procurement process was the large turnover of procurement officers
during project implementation, which led to different interpretations of contract terms and resulted
in protracted disagreements among contractors, suppliers and ONGC. Furthermore, the heavy
involvement of high-level GOI entities in the procurement process made it extremely difficult for
ONGC to comply with certain procurement guidelines and resulted in mis-procurement for the
Hazira compressor station (US$11.5 million). While ONGC clearly understands Bank
procurement guidelines, the involvement of higher GOI authorities has, on occasion, interfered
with ONGC compliance. A similar situation arose in the procurement process for the SBM of
Hazira, but then the Bank notified the Government that it would cancel the entire project if GOI
failed to follow procurement guidelines. Subsequent to this communication there were no other
cases of mis-procurement under the Project.



6
21.   Construction of the SBM at the Hazira Gas Treatment Plant. There were several factors
which led to the delay and eventual cancellation of this project component. First, protracted
procurement procedures delayed the initial construction schedule by about one year. Then, after
the start of construction, the Gujarat State Maritime Administration objected to it, claiming that the
work required a permit from them. The review process for the permit further delayed construction.
It took ONGC two years to obtain the permit, which required a realignment of the SBM.
Compliance with this request required an extension of the construction schedule and the contractor
requested a cost adjustment to take account of the additional work necessary. After several months
of negotiations, ONGC and the contractor could not reach an agreement. The contractor
demobilized operations and the dispute was submitted to arbitration. ONGC considered re-
tendering the SBM's construction but this would have delayed the completion, originally scheduled
for 1989, until the end of 1995. Since the NGL processing plant at Hazira was scheduled for
completion by that time, the shipment of NGL through the SBM system from Hazira to the
Bombay refinery was no longer necessary. The country did need an SBM system for imports of
liquified petroleum gas (LPG), however, this area was not part of ONGC's activities. Therefore,
the construction of the SBM was canceled from ONGC's work program and related equipment
was transferred to another state-owned company, the Indian Oil Corporation.
22.   Devaluation of the Rupee. The Rupee's value relative to the US dollar declined from Rs 14
per US$ at the outset of the Project, to Rs 31.4 per US$ at the end of the project period. The main
impact on the Project's results was a lower US dollar-equivalent value of the local-cost component.
Factors Within the Scope of ONGC Control
23.   Optimization of Production Increase from the Gandhar Field. In the course of field
appraisal, ONGC discovered the presence of a greater than anticipated petroleum liquid fraction
which led to the need for PMP and a related water-injection facility (WIF), components that were
not originally part of the Project. Until the completion of the WIF and the operation of the PMP, it
was necessary to constrain the field's production to prevent resource loss and advanced field
depletion. Given the importance of this program for the productivity of the field, the Bank
maintained the original closing date of June 30, 1994, although disbursements for the Project were
essentially complete in September 1992. Gas production increased by 400 mmcm/y and liquids
production by 0.28 mmt/y as a result of PMP. By keeping the loan open the Bank was able to
monitor and assist ONGC in the implementation of this program.
24.   Construction of the Heera-Uran Oil Pipeline. At the time of project appraisal, ONGC's
investment program included an oil pipeline and a gas pipeline, from the Heera oil and gas field to
consumption centers in the Uran area. ONGC was supposed to complete the construction of the
oil pipeline prior to the Project. As part of the Project, the Bank was to finance the equipment and
the construction costs of the gas pipeline only. However, there was a delay in the procurement of
the oil pipeline which ONGC was financing on its own. Coincidentally, that pipeline's
construction was to take place at the same time as the Bank-financed pipeline. Since it would not
have been possible logistically for two different contractors to construct these pipelines at the same
time, ONGC and the Bank decided to have one contractor construct both pipelines. For each
pipeline the cost of supplies was about one half of the total construction cost. Thus, it was decided
that ONGC would finance all the supplies for both lines on its own and the Bank would finance the
construction costs for both lines. This arrangement resulted in cost savings of about 20 percent for
the supplies and construction of both lines.
25.   Evaluation of the Hazira and North Tapti Offshore Petroleum Fields. ONGC decided to
seek funds from international oil companies interested in the evaluation of the Hazira and North
Tapti offshore fields and, therefore, did not use Project funds originally allocated for this purpose.
The Bank supported this move to make greater use of private resources available for oil and gas
field evaluation.



7
Factors Outside the Project
26.   Decline in the International Price of Oil and the Related Cost of Oil Field Supplies and
Services. The international price of oil fell from US$27 per barrel in 1984 to an average of about
US$18 per barrel during the Project appraisal period. The declining oil-price trend led to a sharp
curtailment of oil development activity worldwide. This curtailment considerably lowered prices
for oil industry goods and services. Price decline led to substantial reductions in project costs.
The original estimate of the Project's base cost was US$1.1 billion. The actual cost of the Project
was about US$653 million or 60 percent of the original estimate. Most of the cost reduction was
in the area of drilling services, as noted in Table 8C. Additionally, during the project period
(1989-1994), the international oil price in real terms averaged about US$15 per barrel instead of
the constant US$18 per barrel which the SAR assumed for its base case estimate of the ERR.
However, the price differential did not threaten the economic viability of the Project, which was to
remain viable for oil prices as low as US$12 per barrel, according to the SAR.
SUSTAINABILITY
27.   Production Benefits. Actual production results and projections from ONGC indicate that
the output of gas, condensate and LPG associated with the Project will be fully sustainable at least
through 2006. Incremental gas production, which are currently about 4.9 bcm annually, are
expected to peak at 8.2 bcm in the late 1990s and gradually decrease to about 6.6 bcm in 2006.
The production of oil and condensate, which is currently about 2.0 mnmt, is projected to reach peak
production of 2.2 mmt in 1996/97 and decline to 1.0 mmt in 2005/06. The production of NGL
and LPG is about 870,000 t and is expected to remain at this level through 2006.
28.   Gas Development Planning and Pricing Policy. As noted in para. 14, GOI has not
regularly updated planning work and the current price of the gas which GAIL pays to ONGC is
below the economic price. Thus, it appears that benefits from the Project's dialogue on improved
planning and pricing policy in these areas are not fully sustainable by the Project alone. However,
the follow-up Gas Flaring Reduction Project contains covenants that should enhance the
momentum towards more liberalized sector development and pricing (para. 35).
BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal Assistance. The Bank's performance in
helping the Borrower identify, prepare and appraise the Project was satisfactory. The SAR was
thorough, with considerable attention to linking sector strategy to the various project components.
It also took sufficient account of factors to minimize risks that could impede the achievement of the
Project's objectives. However, inclusion of some provision to streamline decision-making on
procurement and avoid some of the procurement problems that delayed the implementation of the
Project would have been desirable.
30.   Supervision. Bank supervision of the Project overall was satisfactory. Most of the
supervision missions focused on project components for enhancing gas production and
distribution. This was reasonable since the bulk of the investment cost was in these components
and GOIUONGC took actions on pricing and sector planning outside the scope of the Project.
Furthermore, the Bank had a good working relationship with ONGC on the technical aspects of the
Project.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   GOI was the Borrower for the Project and ONGC was the Implementing Agency.
ONGC's performance in executing the technical aspects of the Project was satisfactory, but was
weak in certain areas of project management. Furthermore, since during most of the Project's
implementation period ONGC was a commission of GOI, not a separate corporation, ONGC did



8
not have sufficient independent authority to follow all of the Bank's guidelines governing project
execution. The performance of GOI was not fully satisfactory, mainly because of its excessive
interference in project management and related decision-making, especially in the area of
procurement.
32.   Project Identification. Preparation and Appraisal. The performance of ONGC in project
identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. However, there was about a three-year
time lag between project identification and preparation because of GOI delays in granting ONGC
approval for the Project. This was due to GOI's preoccupation with the concurrent HBJ gas-
pipeline project.
33.   Project Implementation. ONGC's performance in executing the physical components
overall was satisfactory. ONGC complied with project covenants governing its financial viability,
but the performance of ONGC in overall project management could have been better. A two-year
lag between project appraisal (1986) and effectiveness (1988) led to coordination problems because
of ONGC's staff changes. ONGC did not designate a coordinator for the various physical
components of the Project as the SAR specified. This omission resulted in some lack of
coordination and unconsolidated reporting on the progress of the Project, which complicated
supervision by the Bank. The performance of GOI was not fully satisfactory because of: (a)
excess interference in project management and decision-making, especially in procurement matters;
and (b) insufficient compliance with the covenant in the Loan Agreement governing regular
reporting on gas development planning (Table 10). Notably, GOI's heavy interference in the
procurement process made it very difficult for ONGC to follow all of the Bank's procurement
guidelines (para. 20).
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The outcome of the Project is highly satisfactory because it either met or exceeded its
production targets and is expected to result in greater economic benefits than originally anticipated.
FOLLOW-UP OPERATION
35.   Given the success of the Project, the Bank launched a follow-up operation, the Gas Flaring
Reduction Project, begun in 1991. The Project's objective is to eliminate the flaring of large
quantities of natural gas associated with oil production at the Bombay High oil and gas field (up to
12 mmcm/d) by simultaneous recovery of the gas for transmission to consumers. This project is
also assisting ONGC in the construction of a second gas trunkline, which will allow ONGC to
recover natural gas from other fields adjacent to the Bombay High field, as well as from the South
Bassein gas field. When completed, the project will allow ONGC to increase its natural gas
production and transmission to onshore by about 25 mmcm/d. This gas recovery scheme also will
allow ONGC to produce from more wells, which will increase its oil output bv about 3 mmt/y. The
project's implementation is about 60 percent complete, taking account of components financed by
the Asian Development Bank and the Japan Export-Import Bank (J-Exim). The gas trunkline is
expected to be completed by mid-1995. Current plans indicate the onshore gas-receiving facility,
an expansion of the Hazira gas processing complex, will be completed in 1996. Furthermore, this
project is continuing the dialogue with GOI on greater liberalization of gas-market development and
private sector participation in the oil and gas sector. Covenants are included to: (a) implement a
policy for linking gas pricing to international fuel oil prices; (b) review oil and gas field
developments on a quarterly basis; (c) submit annual reports to the Bank indicating changes in gas
allocations and their inputted or net-back values; and (d) establish a body in the Department of
Petroleum and Gas to monitor the implementation of gas supply and utilization plans.
36.  For the Gandhar field, ONGC has obtained a loan from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) to implement a second phase of the field's development. The ADB-financed project is
drilling more gas-producing wells, expanding the field's gas-gathering system and extending the



9
PMP for the reservoir. At full development, the Gandhar field should produce as much as 10
mmcnifd of gas and 2-3 mmnt/d of condensate and light oil. Furthermore, GAIL is preparing to
build two LPG-recovery plants, each with a capacity of more than 200 mt/y, using gas from this
project.
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
37.   The key lessons that emerged from the Project are the following:
*     Careful field selection and preparatory work are important to project performance. Gas
development work under the Project proved to be veiy cost-effective because of the Project's focus
on well-established fields, which were subject to considerable advanced preparatory work by
ONGC. In particular, the use of an early-production system for the appraisal and development
work for the Gandhar field allowed ONGC to conduct a reservoir deliverability test which showed
that the field contained more petroleum liquids than ONGC had originally anticipated. The results
were crucial to developing a program for optimizing resource recovery from the field. Notably, the
use of reservoir pressure maintenance and drilling programs improved the field's recovery of high-
value liquid fractions along with the related gas.
*     There is considerable industrial demand for gas. Prior to the Project GOI focLIsed primarily
on the potential use of gas as feedstock for fertilizer and petrochemical production. However, the
market development work which the Project promoted encouraged GOI to look to demand from
other sectors. As it turned out, there is considerable industrial sector demand for gas, especially in
heat processing operations.
*      'There is a need to focus on the causes of procurement difficulties in India. The Project and
preceding Bank projects experienced delays as a result of GOI's cumbersome, bureaucratic
procurement process, which revealed GOI's unwillingness to relinquish direct control over
ONGC's procurement activities. Instead of focusing on the cause of the main procurement
difficulties, the Project and its predecessors concentrated on removing immediate bottlenecks
preventing timely implementation of project components. Greater focus on the causes of
procurement difficulties, instead of the mechanics to remove them, is required. Bank staff
supervising the Project could have focused more on the causes, but this would have involved
considerable supervision time on a problem which goes well beyond the scope of the Project and
even the oil and gas sector; it is a deep-rooted problem affecting most sectors of the economy.
However, to minimize problems in the future, the follow-up Gas Flaring Reduction Project
included a covenant in the Loan Agreement to review the procurement process. Also, the Bank
and GOI have agreed on standardized bidding documentation, which should help improve the
procurement process and reduce the likelihood of mis-procurement. Finally, since ONGC is now
a corporation instead of a GOI commission, it will have more independence in the conduct of
procurement matters for ongoing and future Bank-supported projects.
*     The use of technical assistance for onsite managerial and operational expertise can be
extremely beneficial to project performance. Technical assistance helped ONGC improve its
performance under the Project, especially in the area of onshore operations which had been
neglected for some time. In particular, the assistance resulted in the transfer of technology for
sophisticated well-completion techniques and PMP in the Gandhar field.
*     The coordination of a project's implementation work should receive high priority in project
preparation and timing. During the preparation of the Project, ONGC organized a team of officers
that worked well together and were supposed to coordinate the implementation of the Project's
components, which were spread among several offshore and onshore areas. However, there was
a lag time of two years between the appraisal of the Project and the effectiveness of the related
loan. During this period, most team members who participated in the preparation of the Project
were relocated to other parts of ONGC. As a result, the Project experienced coordination



10
difficulties which could have been avoided by retaining the original group involved in project
preparation and appraisal.
*     There is a need for greater dialogue on market-based gas development planning. More
commercialization of the gas sector and long-term policy dialogue on pricing outside the context of
a specific project are necessary to achieve greater efficiency and sustain some initial progress made
in the move to market-based resource allocation. The follow-up Gas Flaring Reduction Project
contains some covenants to support this transition (para. 35). In future projects, the Bank and
GOI have to work out clear indicators of progress.
*     Bank willingness to confront serious cases of non-compliance with Bank guidelines and
project covenants with the serious prospect of project cancellation is an effective tool of ensuring
compliance. After one case of mis-procurement under the Project, the Bank stressed to GOI the
importance of procurement guidelines by clearly indicating the Bank's willingness to cancel the
entire Project if more cases of mis-procurement arose. This commitment on the part of the Bank to
enforcing its guidelines was a key factor in encouraging GOI compliance throughout the rest of the
project. The Bank should maintain this stance in the on-going project.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Taht  J; Suwmmary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives             Substantial       Partial        Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                   *               O               OU
Sector Policies                         O                *O
Financial Objectives                    *                °                                 Li
Institutional Development               *                O                                 Li
Physical Objectives                     *                                Li                Li
Poverty Reduction                       O                                Li O
Gender Issues                           O                                  i O             A
Other Social Objectives                 O                °               0                 X
Environmental Objectives                *                °               °                 °
Public Sector Management                °                °               °                 A
Private Sector Development              °                *               °                 °
Other (specify)                         °                °               °                 X
B.   Proiect Sustainability                     Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
I  *                 O
C.   Bank Performance                     Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
O                    *                     O
OU                                         Li
OU                                         Li
OU                                         El
D.   Overall Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
a                    *                     O
O                    *                     O
D                    *                     D
O                    *                     0
E.    Assessment of Outcome                  Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
*               0               0                 0
Source: Bank s[aff estimates.



12
Tab   i  :t    i -_le Z0 Xe~W.& 0 J: R M  i
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose               Approval            Status
Preceding Operations.
I. Bombay High Offshore Development Development of Bombay           1981            Completed
LN 1925-IN                      High Field
2. Krishna-Godavari Exploration   Exploration and appraisal          1983           Completed
LN 2205-IN                      onshore and offshore
3. South Bassein Gas Development    Field development and           1983            Completed
LN 224 1-IN                     pipeline
4. Cambay Basin Petroleum Project    Exploration and development     1984           Completed
LN 2403-IN                      of the Cambay Basin
Followinig Operations:
I. Petroleum Transport            Onshore gas trunkline             1989          Canceled in part
LN 3364-IN
2. Gas Flaring Reduction Project  Infrastructure and gas             1992            On-going
LN 3364-IN                      pipelines Bombay offshore
Source: Bank Project Files.
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                      Actual Date
Identification                              1/00/86                          4/00/86
Preparation                                2/86-5/86                        6/86-10/86
Appraisal                                   6/1/86                            11/1/86
Negotiations                                3/1/87                         11/17-11/23/87
Board presentation                          7/1/87                            2/2/88
Signing                                      NR                               4/21/88
Effectiveness                                NR                               9/2/88
Project completion                         12/31/93                           9/30/92
Loan closing                               6/30/94                            6/30/94
Source: Bank Project Files.
NR = Not reported.



13
FY88        FY89        FY90         FY91         FY92        FY93
Appraisal Estimate                10          100         195         255          290          295
Actual                            0          75.7        156.6       253.4        282.9        283.3
Actual as % of Estimate           0           76          80           99           97          96
Date of Final Disbursement: July 20, 1992
Source: Bank ILoan Department.
ir. - *,    ? ? .-l.  ri,piecT            . ..          U   ,.
Key Implementation                      Estimated                            Actual
Indicators in SAR/President's
Report
1. Sale of gas from the South             10 mmcmld by 1992            8.5 mmcm/d 1992. increasing to
Bassein field.                                                              17.1 mmcm/d by 1997
2. Sale of gas from the Gandhar           1.0 mmcm/d for 1991         1.4 mmcmld by t991, increasing to
field.                                                                       5.5 mmcm/d by 1995
3. Production of liquids from the               1.3 mt/d              2.8 mt/d by 1991, increasing to 3.7
Gandhar field.                                                                  mt/d in 1993
4. Sale of gas from the Heera field.      0.8 mmcm/d by 1992                 0.9 mmcm/d by 1992
5. Pre-develop of North Tapti and    Completion of seismic work and     Not implemented as part of the
Hazira fields.                           interpretation by 1992.                 project. a/
a/ To be developed with the private sector.
Source: SAR, President's Report, Project Files, and Bank Staff Estimates.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
None Applicable
-t . - ?- (                          '6 g.flt ?t A ftq t < a  fl.....    ,    , ;   ..-a,.4.: 5
Study a/             Purpose as defined              Status               Impact of Study
at appraisal
Gas marketing and long-    Identify new gas markets    Deleted from the Project at  Not applicable.
term gas sector           and coordinate production   the request of GOI.
development planning.     and market planning.
a/GOI prepared the study without project funds.
Source: Bank Project Files.



14
Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$mm)
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Item                  Costs      Costs         Total   Costs        Costs          Total
South Bassein Platform      36.20     117.00     153.20        7.70      152.80      160.50
South Bassein Wells         42.30      61.40     103.70       28.10       38.80       66.90
Hazira Terminal             74.60      55.30     129.90      103.40       23.90      127.30
Heera/UranPipeline           5.50     104.60     110.10       31.00       80.50      111.50
Gandhar Wells              203.60     247.00    450.60        79.50       66.10      145.60
GandharFacility             53.80       8.00      61.80       36.20        4.90       41.10
N.Tapti/HaziraSeismic        1.00       7.00       8.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
N. TaptilHazira Wells       29.70      47.00      76.70        0.00        0.00        0.00
Studies                      0.30       1.00       1.30        0.00        0.00        0.00
Base Cost                  447.00     648.30   1095.00       283.70      364.40      652.90
Physical Contingencies      44.70      64.90    109.60         0.00        0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies         91.90      57.10     149.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Project              583.60     770.30   1353.90       285.90      367.00      652.90
Source: SAR, ONGC and Bank Staff Estimates.
Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)             Actual (US$mm)
Local     Foreign                Local     Foreign
Source            Costs      Costs       Total      Costs      Costs      Total
295.00     295.00      68.30     215.00     283.00
Co-financing Institutions                -          -          -          -
Other External Sources       -        475.30     475.30        -        150.20     150.20
Domestic Contribution      583.60        -       583.60     214.60        -       214.60
Total                      583.60     770.30     1353.90    282.90     365.20      648.10
Souirce: SAR, ONGC and Bank Staff Estimates.



15
Appraisal Estimate US$mm               Actual US$mm
Category                  Local Costs  Foreign      Total   Local Costs  Foreign      Total
Costs                            Costs
1. Process Facilities          -        76.00      76.00       36.80      28.80       65.60
2. Pipeline Installation       -        60.00       60.00       0.30      80.50       80.80
3. Drilling Materials &        -        61.00       61.00      19.10      87.00       106.00
Equipment
4. Drilling Services           -        70.00       70.00      12.10       18.00      30.10
5. Seismic Surveys             -         8.00       8.00         -           -          -
6. Engineering and Studies     -         5.00       5.00
7. Unallocated                 -         15.00      15.00        -           -          -
Total                          -        295.00     295.00      68.30      215.00     283.30
Cancellation a/                                                 (-)       -11.70      -11.70
Adjusted Total                 -        295.00     295.00      68.30      226.70     295.00
a] Due to mis-procurement of the Hazira compression station.
Source: SAR and Bank Staff Estimates.
.% ^'  <(' 6 j,t, ~.     K      A,.
SAR Estimate                ICR Re-estimate
Economic Rate of Return                               72.0                             94.0
Gas Production (bcm)                                  63.0                             96.0
Liquids Extracted from Gas (mmt)                      11.0                              15.0
Condensate Production (mmt)                            4.0                             27.0
Net Benefits (US $ billion)                            2.7                               5.4
Major Costs (US$mm)
Capital Costs                                       613.8                             535.0
Operating Costs                                      594.0                            312.0
Source: SAR, ONGC and Bank Staff Estimates.
Notes for Table 9
1. Costs and benefits expressed in constant 1987 US dollars.
2. For the ICR re-estimate, foreign costs were deflated from current dollars using the MUV index for the
appropriate year and local costs in Rupees were deflated using a weighted-average index for the manufacturing
and services sector, as indicated by the Indian Country Programs Division.



16
Agreement  Section  Covenant    Status                 Description             Comments
Type
Loan          2.02 (b)     FIN    Compliance   ONGC shall maintain a special       None
Amended                           account in US$.
Loan          3.01 (b)     FIN    Compliance   GOI re-lending to ONGC under        None
terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (not less than 15%
per annum repayment, within
15 years including 5-year grace
pefiod).
Loan          4.01 (b)    AUD    Compliance   ONGC Audit including opinion         None
on SOE (due within 9 months
of FY end).
Loan          4.01 (a)    AUD    Compliance   Audit of Special Account (due        None
within 6 months of FY end).
Loan          4.02 (b)    AUD    Partial        (a) ensure the timely offtake of  GOI complied with
Compliance   gas by users along the HBJ   part (a) but,
pipeline to absorb gas supply   concerning part (b),
under the Project;          did not report on
(b) report annually, to the Bank, market
on market development progress development and
and plans for gas use over a  future planning
three-year period.          regularly and in the
manner stipulated
by the covenant.
Loan            4.03       FIN    Compliance   GOI to periodically review          None
prices of crude oil and natural
gas paid to ONGC with the aim
of permitting ONGC to
maintain financial viability.
Project         3.03      M&O    Complied       ONGC shall take out insurance      None
against risks consistent with
appropriate practice.
Project         4.01      AUD    Complied       ONGC Audit due within 9            None
____________  (b) (ii)  __________   __months of FY   end.
Project       4.02 (a)     FIN    Complied      ONGC shall (i) ensure cash         None
generation not less than 1.5 x
debt service; (ii) not incur any
debt that would increase the
principal of aggregate debt to
greater than 15 times equity; and
(iii) maintain a ratio of current
assets to liability of not less
___than 1-2 times.
Source: Loan and Project Agreements.
AUD = Audit covenant.
FIN  = Financial covenant.
M&O= Management and operations covenant.



17
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual
Staff Weeks        US$thousand
Through Appraisal                  164.0               422.0
Appraisal-Board                     12.1                33.0
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                        66.7                182.3
Completion                          4.6                 13.0
Total                              247.4               650.3
a/ No dollar costs reported during the project cycle. No estimated or revised
estimates of staff weeks available.
Source: Bank's time recording system (TRS).
Performance Rating
Stage of   Month/  Number   Days    Specialized               Implemen-   Develop-   Types of
Project      Year        of         in      Staff Skills       tation         ment       Problems
Cycle                 Persons   Field    Represented           Status       Impact
Through     Mar-86       6.00      18.00    TM, FA, CG,           a/            a/           al
Appraisal    July-86                         EC, PE, PR
Appraisal      b/         b/         b/           b/              b/            b/           b/
through
Boand
Approval
Supervision    Dec-88     2.00       8.00        TM, G            2.00          2.00
Feb-90      4.00      10.00    TM, CG, EC.          2.00          1.00
PR
Sep-90      1.00      7.00          TM              2.00          1.00
Apr-91      1.00      4.00          CG           No rating        NA
Oct-91      2.00      10.00       TM, CG            2.00          1.00
Oct-92      2.00      7.00       TM, CG             2.00          1.00
Sep-93     2.00       5.00       TM, CG             2.00          1.00
a/ Not applicable for the appraisal process.
b/ No missions during this period.
Special Staff Skills:
TM   Task Manager             EC   Economist                 PE   Petroleum Engineer
G    Geologist                CG   Consult Geologist         FA   Financial Analyst
PR   Procurement Specialist
Source: Project Files and Bank Staff Estimates.



18
Appendix 1
Contribution of Borrower
(Prepared by the Borrower's Implementation Agency,
the Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited)



.Y~~~~~~~~BMA REIOA BUIES ENR
OIL & NATURAL GAS CORPORAT7ON UM/TED
F  3                80lJB^~~~SMSY REGKLL 8tJSINESS CENTRE
!IIUt                      821. VASUOHMARA HAVAN. BANCAM EAST). BOMBAY.40 061.
Phone: 6429971 Telex 011-71010 Fgx  0226400282
No .8BC/GM:F/C-7/94                                    December 22, 1994
Mr.H.Mcrsli,
Sr.Petrcleum  Engineer,
Oil and Gas Division,
Industry & Energy Department,
World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Pe:  Westerr Gas Develooment Project
(Lo0n  NC.2904-IN)  - Submission  of  revised  data  recarding
project Completion Reoort
Dear Sir,
Kindly  recall  our  discussion  on  5th  December  1994
regarding the statistical  data required  to be submitted for the
purpose of Project Completion Report  for WGDP. On the basis of
our discussion and your suggestions we have recast the statisti-
cal information based on the format given in the Staff Appraisal
Report prepared in January 1988.
I- may be noted  that no expenditure  has been  incurr-d
on accout -h hazira and North Tapti fields per-aining to apprai-
sal driiing and seismic survey.
It may  also  be  noted  that  the  ooerating  cost  of  the
project has been considered for the incremental production of the
projects covered under the loan.
We are also including a write-up regarding the Project
Evaluation  pertaining  to Heera,  Gandhar  and Hazira  terminal
facilities. We shall be glad to provide you any further informa-
tion in this regard.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
/lCJQ Ca
(M.K.Mukhopadhyay)
General Manager(F&A)
Poc, d.  : j-rvn Rharab Tower-/i, 124. Connaught Circus. New ODh-1 1t0 001
Fhone ' _' 'S. _ ; 2 .- arm: COMCONG TLL. 031t65261U4 Fax 01 1-3316413



20
HEERA-TRUNK PIPELINE (HUT) PROJECT:
ONGC had initiated advance procurement  action  in November  1987
for the HUT project  a component  of 'Heera Phase  II Development
Project.   Since the gas transportation system covered under the
project was indicated for possible financing by World Bank provi-
sions were kept under the Bidding Documents accordingly besides
possibilities of other alternative financing arrangements.
However World Bank intimated serious reservations on some of the
Bidding Document stipulations and the split up tendering method-
ology  followed  by ONGC.   The  issues  were  discussed  at higher
levels with the Bank, ONGC and the Govt. of India based on which
the Bank agreed to finance both the oil and gas transportation
systems covered under ;he HUT Project for 2 components of works
i.e. Coating/wrapping and Laying of the pipeline. Linepipe
procurement was decided for financing by ONGC's own arrangements.
The Bank identified minimum changes in the Bidding Documents for
the Coating and Laying to make the same acceptable to the Bank.
All such changes were conveyed to the bidders and their confirma-
tions for compliance obtained.
Stage approvals from the Bank during stage-1 and stage-2 evalua-
tions were planned within 15 days but actually took more time.
The bidders maintained unacceptable deviations and these were
withdrawn after  lot of  discussion.   This  in turn  delayed  the
process of evaluation.
Since, ONGC had to obtain final approvals of GOI including F.E.
release before awards of works against the tenders,  some delays
were experienced in these interactions also.
Above interactions with World Bank, bidders and GOI for the
different tenders of the project and the resulting impact on the
tendering schedule of the respective tenders had to be reviewed
and the overall  tendering/implementation  schedule  had to be
revised by ONGC envisaging  project  completion  by 15.5.90  (with
one month grace period) as against the original plan of 30.9.89.
Procurement guidelines  of the World Bank have  since  been  dis-
cussed very much in detail and the ONGC's standard Bidding Docu-
ments for projects being funded by World Bank were revised. The
subsequent projects  with  financing  from World Bank  could  as a
result be implemented much faster.   With these changes, interac-
tions with the bidders also are less and the time consumed  in
such interactions has been minimised. Under the present arrange-
ments ONGC does not require separate F.E.  release from GOI and
can decide award of works  after  internal  approvals only and
therefore the tendering period has also been reduced consider-
ably.



21
By completion of HUT gas pipeline flaring of associated gas from
Heera,  Ratna  and  Neelam  fields  has  been  reduced  considerably.
This pipeline  is now being  connected  with  Bombay High field
through  ICP-Heera  trunk pipeline presently  under  implementation
after  which  it can  transport  upto  16 MMSCMD  gas  to the shore
terminal at Uran for processing/distribution to consumers.
By completion  of HUT oil  line  expensive  transportation  of oil
produced from the Heera, Neelam and Ratna fields by tankers has
been stopped.



22
Gandhar Project
The monitoring  of  the  Project  by  the  Bank  through
discussions with Bank Missions  from time to time contributed to
close monitoring and control  of the project implementation.   The
Bank have been helpful in their suggestions from time to time and
also the close monitoring and control  led to project implementa-
tion   almost on time and  its  successful  completion.   Bank's
procedures  also  helped  in  deciding  the  contracts  on  time  and
award of work accordingly.
Close monitoring and interim review of the progress
both physical as well as financial was undertaken with a view to
take corrective actions in time.   Review meetings were regularly
held with the Project Officers and also at the Regional level to
monitor the Western Gas Development Project.   All these efforts
helped  in successful  completion  of  the  Project  and  full  loan
utilisation ahead of schedule.
The Bank made the observation about lack of production
optimisation  due to pressure  maintenance  in Gandhar.   Pressure
maintenance in Gandhar got delayed due to poor injectivity of the
wells because of formation damage around well bore.
Success was achieved  by taking  measures  to improve
formation  injectivity  and  carrying  out  injectivity  tests at
higher pressures.
Water injection @ 8000 M3/d was achieved as on September 1993 and
present rate of injection is 12500 M3/d as on 7th December 1994.
The  regular  water  injection  scheme  ! 12000  M3/d  has
been  advanced  and has  been  completed  by mid  December  1993  as
against 1994-95 envisaged in the Gandhar Phase - II development
Feasibility Report.
Pressure maintenance in Gandhar is being given utmost
importance.
Higher GOR wells have been closed and production stra-
tegy is based on following considerations:-
i)   Major oil production is taken from upper undersaturated
reservoir of Gandhar.



23
ii)  High GOR wells of Gandhar are closed/put on restricted
withdrawals depending on the order of GORs.
iii) Priority  is given  to produce  oil  wells  lying  in
exploratory isolated areas.
The relationship between Bank and the Borrower during
the evaluation and implementation of the project has been excel-
lent.   The experiences both of the Bank staff and that of the
Borrower were so dovetailed as to result in comprehensive
evaluation of the project and implementation thereof. Periodical
meetings and suggestions of the Bank Missions  helped  in close
monitoring and supervision of each of the components of the
Project and its implementation on time successfully. Suggestions
for improvement wherever necessary were debated and on that basis
on-the-spot decisions saved valuable time.
No Co-financing was involved in this project.
M/s.EIL were engaged as consultant for construction of
surface facilities under Phase -I.  The contractors were engaged
both for construction  of surface facilities  and drilling of
wells.  The performance of EIL and the contractors was satisfac-
tory.
A summation of the benefits  of the project to the
Borrower  in both  quantitati-ve  and financial  aspects  are given
bel ow:
A. Quantitative:
Appraisal           Current
Estimate            estimate
Cumulative oil production
unto 2000 (MMT)                    3.5                 6.238
Cumulative gas production
upto 2000 (Million M3)             5329.50             4634.04
B. Physical Work
Description        Appraisal            Appraisal             Actual
Estimate            Estimate
As per SAR          as per loan
Agreement
Expl.Wells            33                    40                 40
Dev. Wells            48                    75                 75



24
Hazira Onshore Terminal
During  implementation of the Project,  performance  of the World
Bank remained fairly good and appreciable in terms of communica-
tion  and understanding  the  problems.    The  Bank  had  expressed
their views in certain and definite terms while conveying their
suggestions and approval  for implementation of the projects.   A
few cases where delays occured on account of clarifications of
Bank's observations  are compressors  and Digital  Distributed
Control System.
Though the execution of project has been delayed, but it has been
completed matching with the mutual demand build up of the down-
stream consumers. As the project has been implemented in a
number of packages, there are lot of interfacing and coordination
problems of various contractors and hence the number of packages
should be minimised in future.
There was no other co finance in this project.
The role of consultant was to provide  all  assistance  to the
Borrower  in the design  and engineering  for preparation  of Bid
packages, evaluation and award of work to various contractors and
thereafter supervision of contractors' work of residual engineer-
ing,  procurement,  construction  and  completion  of  the  project.
The relationship between the contractors, the consultant and the
Borrower  was  always  cordial  which  resulted  in  the  successful
completion of the project.   However,  the SBM component of the
project could not be completed and the contract had to be termi-
nated in  ;ew of the exorbitant price demanded by the contractor
to meet the additional  conditions  imposed by GMB for laying of
offshore-pipelines.
On successful  completion  of the project,  the Borrower could
process additional gas and earhed a net revenue which have been
depicted  in the  financial  statement  submitted  along  with this
report apart from having  multiplier effect  on various other
downstream industries.



25
C. Financial Analysis
Appraisal             Actual
Estimate
Capital Cost (Rs. Million)              5662.80            3842.20
Financial Benefits:
IRR               13.6%               53.78%
NPV @ 10%         473.98              1763.02
(Rs.Million)



26
Appendix 2
Map of the Project Area



MAP SECTION






IBRD 19877R
INDIA
WESTERN GAS DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                              GUJARAT
PROJECT                                                                                                                                   Baroda    22-
-22°
Project:
-  -  -       18 Inch Crude Oil Pipelines
*h   ~     20 Inch Natural Gas Pipelines                                       GUJARA T                                                        DAHEJ              Broach
A          Kawas Terminal Extension                                                                                                                                  0
O          Process Platforms
4.         SBM OHfshore NGL Loading Point
Principal Fields
Potential Oil andJor Gas Reserves
Proven Oil Reserves land associated gas)                                                                                                                KOSAMBA
Proven Natural Gas Reserves
Under Construction
*      36 Inch Natural Gas Pipeline                                                    .'                                                           A0Surat
Fertilizer Plants                                                                                                      l,Cr         t       A (Surat
*           Process Platforms                                                                                                             Hazi#
A           Kawas Terminal                                               -  21                                                                                               21'
Existing.                                                                                                           O~NORTH
36 Inch Natural Gas Pipeline                                                               CENTRAL                    TAPTI
_-    _      26 Inch Natural Gas Pipeline                                                                    TAPT1t51
-   -       30 Inch Crude Oil Pipelines
Distribution Lines
A           Uran Terminal
*          Process Platforms                                                                               ESOUTH
4.         SBM Offshore Gas Loading Point                                                                           TAPTI
------       Fault Liies
Isobaths in Fathoms
®)        SSte or Union Territory Capitol
- -- -       State or Union Territory Boundaries
- - -        International Boundaries
DAHANU
2D-                                                                                                                                                                                   20'/
SATELLITE                                                                                  ,,                  t/                    MAHARASHTRA
STRUCTURE
1,,5 TARAPUR
0     t0   20   30    40    55      0    r0
Kisrlest.re                            Do           t;  i   ^BOMBA Y
HIGH   ,
~~%~~~j~~A               PANA
C*PA
' IJUTri 8ASSEIN          MUMBAI
_ 19' .                                                                                                                                                   (BOcMBAY)                   ts'
Uran
HEERA                            0                     Tha
_ +   _=    O t                3  ~~~~~Tha
Th. b-ud.on.. -oor.- d-,-1,. noln nd on  oh.,Ifom
s.o_  -o rh. mpp do nor  -pi  on h.  or of The Wor-d 5,0k
Op.onoJ noripoco..nr,    aof sro- inso27r re            onr                                                        72              -'     3AlNA7
MAY 19.95









IMAGING
Report No:       14412
Type: ICR



