Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23300-JM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40880; TF-29209; TF-24816)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SOC[AL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
APRIL 5, 2002
Sector Management Unit for Human Development
Country Management Unit for the Caribbean
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may nol: otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (JMD)
1 JMD = US$ .021
US$ 1 = 47.15 JMD
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            MOF        Ministry of Finance
CBO       Community-Based Organization           MOH        Ministry of Health
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank             NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
DFID      Department for International           NPEP       National Poverty Eradication
Development                                       Program
EU        European Union                         NWC        National Water Commission
GOJ       Government of Jamaica                  OED        Operations Evaluation Department
GON       Governmnent of the Netherlands         OS         Organizational Strengthening
Subproject
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction  PIOJ       Planning Institute of Jamaica
and Development (World Bank)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report       PSR        Project Status Report
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank        SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
JSIF      Jamaica Social Investment Fund         SDC        Social Development Commission
MIS       Management Information System          SIF        Social Investment Fund
MOE       Ministry of Education                  SS         Social Services Subproject
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Andrea Vermehren



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
SOC. INVEST. FUND
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affectinkg Implementation and Outcome                             13
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10. Additional Information                                                         31
Annex 1. Key Performanice Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               33
Annex 3. Econornic Costs and Benefits                                              37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  42
Annex 7. List of Supporiing Documents                                              43
Annex 8. JSIF Board Approved Investment by Program Area and Project Type, 1996-    44
April 2001
Annex 9. JSEF Board Approved Investnent by Poverty Quartle, 1996- April 2001 (%)   45
Annex 10. JSIF Board Approved Investment by Poverty Quartile, 1996- April 2001     46
(US$M)
Annex 11. JSIF Staff Turnover, 1997- April 2001                                    47
Annex 12. JSIF Project E'rocessing Time, 1997- April 2001 (months)                 48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039029                                      Project Name: SOC. INVEST. FUND
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                            TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: April 5, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SOC. INVEST. FUND                              L/C/TFNumber: SCL40880;
ITF-29209; TF-24816
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/18/1995                             Effective: 01/06/1997         11/04/1996
Appraisal:  04/09/1996                               MTR: 01/11/1999            01/11/1999
Approval:  09/05/1996                              Closing: 03/31/2001         07/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA/JAMAICA SOCLkL INV'ISTMENT FUND
Other Partners:  Inter-American Development Bank
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De F erranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                    Paul Isenman--Director LA3
Sector Manager:      Ana-Maria Arriagada                       Julian Schweitzer--Country Sector Leader
LASHC
Team Leader at ICR:  Andrea Vermehren                          Sarah Adam
ICR Primary Author:  Andrea Vermehren; Eduardo
Araujo; Anna Webb; and
Herman J. Nissenbaum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HLUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M[
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qual'ity at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary goal was to assist the Jamaican Government in responding to the unfulfilled
needs of its poor, who were not adequately served by on-going programs and institutions. The project
sought to: (i) establish an efficient, demand-driven and complementary mechanism to deliver basic services
and infrastructure to the poor; (ii) mobilize and channel additional resources to the areas of basic social and
economic infrastructure and services; and (iii) improve national institutional capacity to identify, design,
implement, manage and sustain small community-based projects. The project accordingly entailed the
development of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) as a mechanism to mobilize and channel
additional assistance to the poor, along with endowing it with adequate capability to promote services and
infrastructure to poor communities.
These goals stemmed from the Government's decision in the mid-1990s to place social development
and poverty reduction at the center of its medium-term framework. It recognized at the time that an
estimated 28 percent of the population lived below the poverty line, and that their living conditions had
been worsened by existing macroeconomic problems. The Government wished to remedy this situation by
developing a multi-year strategy, which had begun to be discussed with the Bank in 1994. Both agreed that
more social investments were needed, especially for small scale, local improvements. Simultaneously, they
concurred that the major public institutions implementing poverty programs had limited capacity for
carrying out substantial measures to meet poverty reduction requirements. Therefore, in 1996, the
Government decided to establish JSIF to pursue this approach, which was in line with the objectives of the
Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project's components included:
(i) JSIF financing of the following types of sub-projects: (a) social and economic infrastructure; (b)
social services; (c) organizational strengthening; and (d) technical assistance for strengthening
governmental and non-governmental institutions in project identification, preparation, implementation and
management.
(ii) JSIF institutional strengthening including technical assistance and training.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project appraisal identified a suitable approach to fit the circumstances of strained
Government finances, worsening poverty and growing community unrest. An assessment was made of the
country's development stage and the public sector's capability of successfully carrying out poverty
- 2 -



reduction activities. The appraisal also correctly gauged the Government's commitment to the project's
approach and the availability of basic conditions for its success. In these and other respects, the appraisal
report clearly and succinctly set out the project's rationale, goals, envisaged work plan and methodology.
The project design incorFporated established Social Investment Fund (SIF) architecture and
procedures. It also drew lessons fiom other SIFs, such as the importance of providing adequate
institutional autonomy, and freedom from political interference. Moreover, it appropriately scaled the
project to JSIF's anticipated operating capacity to the expectations of the demand for its grants and their
disbursements over a 4-year execut'ion period. It scaled the project targets and resource estimates to the
availability of extemal donor resources and counterpart support, thus producing an effective financing
package. However, these initial assumptions turned out to be somewhat incomplete. The problems that
emerged at the beginning of implementation were hardly unexpected in the absence of prior national
experience with social funds, and with JSIF assuming project responsibilities immediately after its creation.
The project design included provisions intended to mitigate the main risk identified at
appraisal. The scheme envisaged the release of grants for a menu of sub-projects disbursed to unidentified
target groups. This raised the possibility of leakages of project funds to inappropriate target groups
because of such factors as political pressures. Therefore, measures were put in place to make JSIF an
autonomous entity accompanied by adequate institutional checks and balances, and with transparent
procedures. Furthermore, targetingi criteria for its activities were developed from the onset. The
Government also accorded the Funrd special privileges and operating authority. In addition, the Bank
prudently obtained agreement on a menu of eligible sub-projects, appraisal criteria and the staffing of
JSIF's management positions satisifactory to the Bank.
The project design set out indicative poverty targets focusing on poverty levels of different
communities (e.g., 70 percent of JSIF grants were to go to the two poorest quartiles containing 48 percent
of the population). This was a worthy attempt to ensure that the project particularly benefited needier
Jamaicans, which was fundamental to the project's success in poverty reduction. Over time though, it
became necessary to amend the me.thodology used for targeting. This derived from a poverty mapping
exercise, supported by the Bank, which divided the country into 506 communities. These communities were
ranked according to a poverty index that was applied to the 1991 census data. During project
implementation however, JSIF and. the Bank agreed that the map had been an insufficient tool for
measuring poverty and for making Fund allocations. There was particular consensus that the rankings were
not always accurate indications of the welfare status of the communities. Therefore, additional poverty
targeting criteria were introduced. These led to the inclusion of areas marked by high levels of crime and
violence and low stocks of social capital, as well as "pockets of poverty" in middle or higher income
districts. These changes were not a. blemish, however, of the project design as the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) called for various mechanisms to be used for targeting throughout the implementation period. It also
allowed for the use of project fund; to refine methodologies or procedures.
The project design also foresaw the need for systematic monitoring and evaluation of project
developments. The SAR appropriately called for JSIF's establishment of a management infonnation system
(MIS) prior to effectiveness of the Loan, and for its usage for annual measurement of project performance.
These were well intended measure:; but proved to be insufficient. Although the establishment of the MIS
was a condition of loan effectiveness, its actual implementation lagged, and its design had to be changed
because it did not provide timely monitoring information of JSIF's operations, until well into the project
period. The performance indicators, which were partly to be monitored through the MIS, focused more on
"outputs" than "outcomes". The project design therefore rightly included provisions to carry out operational
- 3 -



audits, a beneficiary assessment, and an impact evaluation to gain a deeper understanding of outcomes and
impacts. In January 1998, the midterm review was followed by a multi-disciplinary beneficiary assessment
and "management audit" during 1999. In 2000, a technical audit was carried out by an independent
consulting firm. In addition, there was a study conducted in August-September 2000 under the aegis of the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) regarding JSIF's sustainability and institutional
development effects. An impact evaluation study was carried out in January-August 2001 and the results
are summarized in section 4.2 of this document. The inclusion of this comprehensive package of audits and
studies was an excellent feature of the project design and helped improve efficiency and effectiveness of the
JSIF during project implementation.
Although Jamaican welfare institutions had long been active in promoting local improvements,
JSIF was intended to be the first national demand-driven institution of its kind, with emphasis on
participatory approaches and community involvement. The project began with the declared intention of
triggering "... tangible, widespread and sustainable services and infrastructure relatively quickly and
transparently." The project plan projected the financing of more than 800 subprojects, averaging $50,000
in cost. This proved to be unduly optimistic, which was unsurprising for a new organization undertaking
brand new activities. These, together with the difficult social conditions of the poor and other factors,
created bullish expectations for the Fund. More importantly, this vision contributed, in part, to JSIF's
initial stress in selecting large, costly sub-projects capable of producing impressive-looking expenditure
figures, which somewhat distracted from the project's demand-driven, small scale activity thesis. There is
some belief that this pressure caused JSIF to focus unnecessarily on the more vocal (rather than the more
underprivileged) communities from the outset. More certainly, it biased JSIF toward larger economic
infrastructure works as opposed to social service and organizational development activities. In early 2000,
the expected number of sub-projects to be financed was adjusted to a more realistic figure: the Bank and
JSIF agreed on the target of about 400 subprojects to be completed by the end of the project (ref. para.
4.2).
JSIF's rules called for communities to contribute 5-10 percent of total subproject costs. The SAR
stipulated that subproject beneficiaries and sponsors would provide, on average, 10 percent of total project
costs, depending on the type of subproject, the resources available from the sponsoring agency, and the
beneficiary community's income levels. However, the project agreement differed in that it called for only a
5 percent financing of total project cost by sponsors. Therefore, JSIF only demanded a minimum of 5
percent in beneficiary contributions, however, JSIF was not even able to obtain the 5 percent
community/sponsor contribution. This was partly due to JSIF's somewhat half-hearted efforts to emphasize
the importance of these contributions, and partly to expectations by the sponsors and communities that the
government should provide basic social services for free.
The project design underestimated the possibilities of poor performance by consultant and
contractor, a common occurrence in previous Bank-funded projects in Jamaica. This was not identified in
the risk assessment at appraisal. But they could (if not, should) have foreseen this under the circumstances
- an inexperienced public institution dealing with a relatively small group of local firms, without much
prospect for international competition and charged with the responsibility of executing multiple, widely
dispersed small-sized projects. The project appraisal should have defined greater precautionary measures
than JSIF's exemption from Government's procurement rules, creation of a unit cost database, and ceilings
on maximum contract levels and awards to any one civil works contractor. During project implementation,
these issues were addressed in numerous ways to mitigate this weakness in the design. For example,
training materials for contractors were designed and training courses were implemented, a rating system for
contractors was introduced in JSIF's monitoring system, and several consultancies were carried out to
improve the supervision capacity of JSIF staff and the quality of works. As a result, a technical audit
- 4 -



carried out in the year 2000 found that infrastructure projects had a "moderate to good" quality rating.
The project design appears to have underestimated the need for ensuring adequate provisions for
maintaining infrastructure investments, which is critical to project sustainability. It solely obligated
project sponsors to plan for the coverage of maintenance, and called on JSIF to enter into coordinating
agreements with sector ministries and local governments on maintenance procedures and requirements.
These provisions were insufficient to clarify the requisite responsibilities for carrying out and financing
maintenance work among the several participating entities. Nor were effective mechanisms provided for
enforcing the inter-agency agreements. This was unsurprising, as the previous track record in the country
on this score was not exemplary. (The Fund's assessment of the project refers to the country being "a
culture in which maintenance traditionally had not been a priority"). Thus, better attention should have
been given in project design to this foreseeable requirement. During project implementation, maintenance
became one of the major topics of discussion. Several consultancies supported JSIF in designing a system
that would improve subproject sustainability and work against the "tradition" of inadequate maintenance.
As a result, a maintenance specialist was hired by the Fund to ensure close coordination with line
ministries, local authorities and cormmunities, as well as to strengthen community capacity building.
Despite these efforts, doubts remain whether all subprojects are being maintained in a sustainable way.
Still other weaknesses pertained to the institutional setting of JSIF, for which there was
inadequate technical assistance. The project entailed the creation of an entity to perform unprecedented
tasks in essentially untested waters. Yet, the project plan contained only relatively minimal provisions for
the functioning of the Fund, with virtually no consideration of its long-term needs or institutional growth.
Presumably, this was due to the understanding that it only had a temporary mandate and nature. On this
account, the SAR declared that "the sustainability of JSIF as an institution is not an issue." That judgment,
and the absence of any provisions for future Government institutional arrangements for these activities
were questionable. To be sure, since the authorities were uncertain about JSIF's future existence, there
might have been little purpose in seeking agreement on some scheme for its continuity. As a practical
matter, any such pledge probably would have been unenforceable (and possibly undesirable for an effective
Bank-Government relationship). Li addition, the SAR stated that JSIF's future would be evaluated after the
project's end, with the implication of its extension. An earlier target would have been preferable.
The above-mentioned shortcomings were significant. However, they need to be judged against the
overall project preparation work. Aklthough incomplete in some respects, the project appraisal was
adequate. The Govemment's commitment and project risks were assessed correctly. The funding plan
proved appropriate and the measures put in place for implementation of a completely new operation
basically sufficed to meet the test. Therefore, the project's quality at entry is judged to have been"
Satisfactory".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objecti ve:
The project substantially achieved its primary objective to contribute to poverty reduction through
the results and benefits obtained by the subprojects carried out by the Fund. In the process, JSIF played a
major role in the delivery of social. and economic infrastructure and service improvements to Jamaica's
poorer communities. The project also met the institutional goals of helping to get JSIF established and
operating effectively, as well as developing competence in a number of areas.
The particulars of these accomplishments are described in para. 4.2 of this report and in the
- 5 -



annexes. In some instances, these accomplishments are discussed by comparing the Bank's experience with
other social fund projects (Social Funds 2000 study, and Social Fund report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department for the IBRD Board's Committee on Development Effectiveness (ref
"CODEE200 1-0090")).
4.2 Outputs by components:
COMPONENT A: JSIF SUBPROJECTS (US$30.9 million disbursements)
From July 1996 to July 31, 2001, JSIF approved a total of 381 sub-projects with an estimated cost
of $38.11 million. This was less than half the number of subprojects planned in the appraisal report, but
95.3% of the adjusted number of subprojects, agreed with the Bank in the year 2000. It should be noted
that this ICR's coverage of the Fund's activities is concentrated on those subprojects or activities financed
under Loan 4088 with Government counterpart funds and some funding from other donors. It does not
purport to cover those similar JSIF project activities which were funded by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) under parallel financing arrangements.
The Fund financed 176 of the above mentioned 381 subprojects through the IBRD loan. These
subprojects were concentrated on: construction, rehabilitation and equipping of schools; the rehabilitation
of feeder roads in agricultural areas; the rehabilitation of community facilities, day care centers, homes for
children, elderly or disabled; and water and sanitation systems. The remainder of the grants went mainly to
50 organizational strengthening (OS) activities, along with assorted social service (SS) projects, such as
conflict resolution, counseling and training activities.
Sectoral resource allocations diverged somewhat from the SAR's indicative estimates. About 94
percent went to economic activities or subprojects, as compared to 86 percent estimated at appraisal, and
as a result, only US$1.9 million was expended for organizational strengthening and social service activities.
JSIF completed 58 of these subprojects, compared with the 154 estimated at appraisal - a far smaller
proportion than the infrastructure works. Several factors determined this outcome; at the outset, there were
strong education sector demands, as well as high demand for rural roads and community center subprojects
which all have a relatively high cost. Also, as mentioned earlier, JSIF initially had a tendency to
concentrate on larger subprojects to show disbursement progress. This was coupled with JSIF's request that
the project sponsor prepare a detailed project proposal. As a result, it was not surprising that the more
vocal, more able and less poor communities or groups would be first to submit an infrastructure project in
the required format. Moreover, JSIF staff was technically better prepared for analyzing/approving
infrastructure subprojects, while they needed some time to obtain the expertise required for organizational
strengthening and social service activities. These factors might be considered adequate justifications for the
relatively small proportion of OS and SS activities. However, it is difficult to square this level of support
with the project's objectives of "..stimulating integrated and sustainable development of poor comnmunities
(and) increasing national institutional capacity" for poverty alleviation.
Rural communities received the largest share of the grants. However, toward the end of the project
period, the Fund redirected and shifted its targeting methods and assistance strategy towards funding to
urban areas. As a result, and according to the JSIF impact evaluation report, the number of urban
subprojects funded rose to one third of the total, compared to 15 percent of subprojects previously funded.
Most of the project grants were focused on the inner cities of Kingston and St. Andrew in response to their
growing unemployment, crime, violence, and other social issues (as indicated in a World Bank financed
"Participatory Study of Urban Poverty and Violence in Jamaica" mentioned in the SAR). The change in
- 6 -



JSIF's targeting was an understandable reaction to those social problems. Moreover, it was agreed that
there were shortcomings in the poverty map approach, which obscured the needs of low-income
communities within some urban areas. However, the change arguably constituted a deviation from the goal
of addressing the needs of the poorest. That is because the great bulk of Jamaica's poorest live in
rural--rather than urban--areas, and it is questionable whether the beneficiaries of subprojects focused on
crime, violence and comparable sccial problems would be counted among the poorest.
JSIF estimated that more than one million persons benefited directly or indirectly from the
subprojects. They also calculated that children (ages 0-18) represented the largest group of the poor
benefiting (51 percent), and that children benefited from 52 percent of the total approved investment. In this
respect, the Fund's grants for basic schools for children ages 4-6 were particularly appropriate, since the
government does not finance schools for pre-primary education.
Costs, Quality and Maintenance
The figures show that the average cost of approved sub-projects was US$80,000, one-third more
than expected during project appraisal. JSIF complained about the cost overruns by the construction
industry, time delays and poor quality of workmanship. Also, there are indications of a large number of
variation orders occurring during the execution of infrastructure works. These have been attributed to
inadequate subproject design and appraisal, increases in materials, price escalations, and adjustmnent at
project completion. The Fund rightfully has judged that infrastructure design and supervision were "some
of its biggest challenges and, in retrospect, may have been one of the weakest aspects of JSIF".
Furthermore, Bank missions and the OED-sponsored team of site visitors found instances of
underutilization of facilities and equipment, which might indicate that contractors' practices require
supervision, which in turn underscores the need for improving the quality of JSIF's staff to supervise the
contractors.
Furthermore, implementttion of subprojects was slow. JSIF's average processing time increased
from 23.3 months to 27.7 months from 1997 to 1999 (ref. Annex 12). This covered the period from the
time of receipt of grant proposals by the Fund through approval, supervision and completion of
subprojects. Afterwards, through April 2001, the Fund reduced its processing time of subprojects to an
average of 25.4 months. However, the processing period increased again by the end of 2001, to 28.4
months, mainly due to elapsed time between submission of subproject proposal, approval and longer
supervision time. In hindsight, the Fund agreed that subprojects took an inordinately long time to be
implemented. Bank supervision missions highlighted this deficiency of JSIF operations early in project
implementation, and recommended that JSIF develop a "fast-track-procedure" used by most Social Funds
in the region for standardized subprojects, such as primary schools. Although JSIF made an effort to
develop such procedures, the institution did not manage to implement these practices. JSIF explained that
the long processing time was the result of a much larger number of requests than initially anticipated,
increasing the consultation process to improve community involvement, lengthy tendering and contracting
procedures, staff turnover, design delays, and communication and other problems. In some communities
JSIF encountered difficulties in achieving consensus about the subprojects largely due to an initially low
level of social capital and social cohesion. In hindsight, though, Bank missions and OED's analysis
appropriately underscored that the Fund required 234 days on average between taking projects into
consideration and approving them, which led OED to properly describe JSIF's processes as not very
efficient.
At the same time, it warrants noting that the quality of the subprojects is reported to have
improved over time. An independent Technical Audit carried out under the Loan concluded that overall
- 7 -



quality of subproject was rated modest to good. This varied with rural roads rated more poorly, while
health and education infrastructure had better ratings. The project goal of developing adequate
environmental assessment procedures for civil works subprojects was only partially met, since the Fund
was relatively slow in developing and implementing these measures. However, the Technical Audit found
that in general, environmental issues were adequately addressed with a few exceptions found to be
associated with civil works activities.
With regard to the maintenance of civil works, the project was deficient in introducing the required
maintenance measures, especially in the economic and social infrastructure (see para. 3.5), which was
compounded by the reportedly protracted budget shortages of line agencies that normally suffer constraints
in their maintenance operations. The project-funded investments displayed upkeep problems early on,
which were not adequately addressed, despite repeated advice on this issue by the Bank. As a result, OED's
household surveys found that only 35 percent of the Jamaican respondents felt that required repairs of the
facilities built were done quickly.
The SAR had called for sector ministries and local governments to assume the maintenance
costs, which most ministries and benefiting communities said they could not cover. Bank missions
repeatedly stressed the need for improved arrangements for maintenance, supplemented by various
consultancies to help JSIF find solutions to the manifold problems. In response to the maintenance
difficulties, JSIF sought to promote greater local engagement through the establishment of community
maintenance committees. It employed consultants who trained community-based organizations in basic
maintenance concepts and furnished training and supporting materials (e.g., a facilities maintenance
handbook). Moreover, the JSIF Impact Evaluation study carried out in 2001 reported that 78 percent of
those communities surveyed felt that projects were adequately or well maintained, with the exception of
road and water subprojects. Due to the high percentage of satisfied communities, these results could be
viewed as encouraging. The promotion and implementation of local responsibility for sustaining
investments appears salutary for expanding "community ownership". However, it appears that the project's
deficiencies in this area are symptomatic of a broader general condition in the country.
This review of the JSIF project is not an appropriate forum for debating the respective merits of
depending on regular state institutions versus taking other tracks for solving the maintenance problem. But
the deficiency here suggests the need for a comprehensive and more rigorous central approach to project
infrastructure maintenance, rather than trying to upgrade JSIF's capability to provide a better--but
inevitably piecemeal--solution. It is expected that important lessons will be derived from the IDB-supported
Parish Infrastructure Development Project (a contemporary of JSIF), which was supposed to address the
issue of improving infrastructure management at the local level.
Impact Evaluation
Under the Loan, an Impact Evaluation study was carried out to assess the outcomes of a sample of
the subprojects. The draft report of this study, currently being refined, underscored some interesting
findings. These results were primarily drawn from observations gathered through questionnaires discussed
with an estimated 2,400 households and from other participatory assessments. The results of this
evaluation are as follows:
a. Road subprojects produced overall reductions in farmers' costs and travel time. The reductions
in cost were not as statistically significant as cuts in travel time (which were reported to average 36
percent). These subprojects were considered to have been particularly successful in improving the quality
of the livelihood of those affected. There were reports of increased incomes and crops, improved access to
- 8 -



health and other services, savings on vehicle repairs and footwear purchases, along with less rural-urban
migration. An economic analysis of 12 road subprojects calculated their Internal Rate of Return (IRR) at
11.9 percent, without taking into account non-measurable benefits. In addition, these sub-projects were
found to have demonstrated a relatively high increase in social capital indicators. Over 20 percent of
households reported increases in social capital as effects of road and community center-type projects.
However, the technical audit judged the quality of these works to be relatively poor, and JSIF also noted
some problems in this cluster.
b. Education subprojects, mainly involving schools for 3-6 year olds, were commended for
providing better educational environments and facilities. These, in turn, affected parents' decisions on
school choices. Other benefits reported included improved student concentration and physical comfort. But
there were few indications of improved educational performance or even increased class attendance.
Building improvements were often seen as benefiting the community at large by facilitating non-school
activities. The education subprojects appeared to influence social capital far less than other activities,
arising out of a general popular belief that they mainly benefited special interest groups.
c. Water/sanitation subprojects were mostly undertaken in rural communities whose residents had
little or no access to potable water. Households reported improvements in their primary water sources, its
cost and the time required to fetch it. The nine subprojects studied were estimated to have impressive
benefits for the over 11,000 persons affected, with most of the IRRs exceeding 100 percent, plus large
intangible benefits such as a decrease in water borne diseases. However, the same subprojects were
reported to have been involved in community disputes and relationship problems with the National Water
Commission (which took over these operations after their completion). Issues of maintenance and
connection costs have been commonplace as well. OED's portfolio analysis concluded that these problems
are customary in this sector.
d. Organizational strengthening (OS) subprojects increased over time as JSIF changed its priorities
to be more geared towards smaller activities. They were directed to upgrade community-based
organizations (CBOs), relevant government agencies (especially the Social Development
Commission-SDC) and NGOs to improve planning and execution of subprojects. The training given to well
over 500 persons is said to have successfully built their confidence and expanded popular understanding of
the prospective benefits of investment projects. Additionally, the CBOs are judged to have become more
active and potentially influential with powerful economic institutions.
e. The qualitative analysis that was part of the impact evaluation study found that the investments
reflected community views and concerns. Over 90 percent of the members of the CBOs that promoted
subprojects were consulted about them during JSIF's identification of possible interventions, and over 80
percent of beneficiaries were consulted. In addition, a majority of community members reported knowing
about JSIF's subprojects. It should be noted that an independent OED-sponsored stakeholder survey in
Jamaica found this degree of knowledge to be relatively low, however this conclusion is debatable due to
the high percentage of people/groups reported to have been consulted and informed. The same majority of
respondents also testified to having been consulted with regarding the subprojects. In most instances, that
consultation took place after a sponsor group applied for funding and the larger community was being
informed and asked to help--without necessarily taking their views into account. In addition, the study
found that sponsors tended to repiesent less poor community members. However, it can also be stated that
the sponsors' priorities reflected the opinions of a majority of the community. There was, moreover, a high
degree of correspondence between the activities funded and beneficiary priorities.
f. Correspondingly, one thiird of households were reported to have taken part in JSIF's subprojects in
-9-



the form of labor, materials, money or other involvement, particularly for road and water activities. The
impact study described this as a high level of participation, which demonstrated real community
commitment. These results appear to reflect the Fund's agreement with the Bank's mid-term review
recommendation that communities be encouraged to become more active in the execution of the
subprojects. This was preceded by the 1998 beneficiary assessment's findings that there was a notable lack
of community involvement in JSIF's programs.
In addition, the impact assessment concluded that the Fund had been extremely successful in
building other institutions' participatory approaches to community development. It further stated that the
training and skills provided had indirectly influenced the ways in which they worked with local populations
and spread community development values. This influence was perceived to be substantial and growing.
Probably the most exemplary was SDC's upgrading; they are reported to have improved their ability to
strengthen community capabilities. The JSIF-SDC collaboration was also commended for putting into
place quality community consultation and participation machinery.
Targeting
JSIF substantially achieved the project's indicative poverty targets, which were designed to ensure
that the allocation of resources be concentrated in Jamaica's poorer communities. JSIF's reports indicate
that those residing in the two lowest quartiles received 68.3 percent of total approved investments compared
to the targeted 70 percent. Less poor communities were calculated to have obtained 27.4 percent of the
funds allocated compared to the targeted 30 percent ceiling. The remaining 4.3 percent investments went to
"multi-parish" areas, which were not included in the targets (ref. Annex 9 and 10). These outcomes were
commendable since (as is typical for demand-driven projects), the first communities to submit proposals
were those that were best organized--not necessarily the poorest. Subsequently however, the Fund made
considerable efforts to stimulate and meet demand from poorer communities. Incidentally, that 27.4 percent
allocated to less poor communities compares favorably with results in other countries. OED's figures
indicate that non-poor households obtained 29-45 percent of social fund investments under other projects.
In addition, it was agreed during the project midterm review to move from the poverty map
community ranking method toward a more qualitative poverty assessment for purposes of targeting
investments. The revised methodology included measures of social capital and the respective "vulnerability"
of community members. This change was triggered by the Government's legitimate concerns about
adequately measuring urban poverty. The authorities also aptly asserted that a 1996 Bank-sponsored study
found significant correlation between crime, violence and poverty, which they argued should figure in with
the targeting of the poorest.
Based on these considerations, it was appropriate to fine tune JSIF's resource flow to allow for
poverty reduction by revising the allocation of resources. The impact evaluation study examined the impact
of the Fund's resource distribution after the changes made to the methodology in 1999 (with which the
study concurred). The study concluded, from a comparison of JSIF-benefited households and other
households with similar characteristics, that JSIF communities were poorer than their comparators.
Communities benefiting from the subprojects were judged to be poorer sub-communities of the larger
communities demarcated by the poverty map, or poorer households were being targeted within the
communities, or both. This accomplishment is considered credible, particularly given JSIF's problems and
uneven progress.
- 10 -



Community Participation
Another important aspect of JSIF's work was that CBOs were reported to have been the main
sponsors of the subprojects funded. The Fund's figures show that the CBOs sponsored 77 percent of
sub-projects, whose activities were calculated to be 79 percent of IBRD-derived support. Furthermore, the
impact evaluation found a high level of participation of community households in these activities,
principally in terms of contributions of unpaid labor. The study also noted a high degree of correspondence
between such participation and subsequent usage of the facilities built or rehabilitated. Also, OED's
household surveys found that 88 percent of respondents were willing to pay for the physical improvements
resulting from JSIF investments, close to comparable figures for Social Fund projects in Malawi,
Nicaragua and Zambia.
The same surveys in the four countries also compared social capital changes in social
fund-benefited communities with non-social fund communities. They found a statistically significant impact
in Jamaica's case for bridging social capital (defined as a perception of greater change in the effectiveness
of government's responsiveness tc, their needs), as well as for bonding (defined as a perception of greater
change in the level of trust and community cooperation between peoples of different backgrounds and
ethnic groups).
The impact evaluation study found that JSIF in the later years had aimed to build communities'
capacities to better manage their development, rather than continuing to stress large infrastructure projects.
JSIF officials have interpreted the situation in a similar way. They have emphasized that the Fund saw
money invested in roads and schools as "means to an end of community empowerment and social capital
accumulation." This focus is also manifested in JSIF's increasing collaboration with the Social
Development Commission (SDC), which forms part of the Local Government.
In hindsight, the Fund was clearly able to successfully link community participation to small-scale
infrastructure investment. Nevertheless, this was achieved at a high cost and was manifested in
implementation delays where there were multiple community groups whose interests had to be reconciled.
COMPONENT B: JSIF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT ($10.8 million disbursements)
JSIF used the proceeds of the Loan and complementary technical assistance to successfully
establish an efficient, demand-driven mechanism to deliver basic services and infrastructure to the poor. To
be sure though, this accomplishment was incomplete and marred by some shortcomings, as follows:
1. Despite the assistance it received, JSIF's progress was checkered. Its learning curve was
protracted while trying to establish itself and install international level social fund procedures and practices.
Nonetheless, the Fund used programming and implementation methods generally consistent with standards
from other Social Funds financed by the Bank. These were properly documented in its Operational Manual,
and supplemenrted by adequate technical guides.
2. Further, JSIF sought to improve its operational efficiency through varied efforts, including a
reorganization and the adoption of more rigorous evaluations of contractor and consultant performance,
both measures highly recommended by the Bank's supervision team. It also introduced some system
improvements, such as a relatively sophisticated database system for evaluating comparative costs. In July
2000, it took on the regional, team-based approach recommended by the Department for International
Development (DFID) Participation Advisor and the Bank. This is reported to have improved
- 11 -



decision-making, relations with stakeholders, and staff morale. But JSIF still needs to achieve greater
progress in developing and retaining more competent middle management, and in becoming more proficient
in procurement and project implementation features, especially in developing fast-track procedures for
smaller projects.
3. Achievements could have been greater with a more experienced operations manager on board
throughout the project period, with less staff turnover and with an adequate, earlier installed MIS.
Furthermore, the impact evaluation study concluded that the Fund had underemphasized the requirements
for building up its own capacity in favor of helping communities and other institutions do so, although it
acknowledged the Fund's valid grounds for this choice.
4. The project experience demonstrated the advantages of creating a social fund for poverty
reduction purposes, rather than solely increasing social and related sector funding with the same goals. But
some who have reviewed JSIF's output question whether simply increasing the pertinent central government
agencies' funds might not have achieved as much. They argue that line ministries have certain advantages
over the Fund, e.g., in technical design, maintenance etc., and they claim that JSIF's emergence added to the
inter-agency coordination chores of the Jamaican public administration. However, there are also reasonable
arguments for supporting JSIF's independent existence, notably its accomplishrnent record. Additionally,
the impact evaluation study showed that JSIF seemed to work well with the line ministries, detracting from
the argument that JSIF's existence burdened the Jamaican public administration. Taking these factors into
account, this review has not found sufficient material to lead to any conclusions on these opposing views.
However, this case serves to endorse OED's recommendation that the relationship of open-ended SIFs with
other governmental entities needs to be thoroughly defined from the outset.
Summary
In reviewing the project's accomplishments vis-a-vis its objectives to: [(i) establish an efficient and
demand-driven mechanism; (ii) increase resources for social and economic infrastructure; and (iii) improve
national institutional capacity], it can be concluded that the project's achievements were somewhat limited,
but it helped to establish a good model for bipartisan leadership and national institutional capacity for small
scale, community-based development projects. JSIF demonstrated an innovative, constructive approach to
planning, administering and delivering economic and social services, and did so successfully on a
demand-driven basis. It set a good example for the Jamaican public sector by being objective, transparent
and impartial, as well as relatively efficient. The Government's decision to extend the Fund's activities
beyond the life of the project appears to corroborate these judgments.
Equally, if not more significantly, JSEF established itself within a relatively brief period of time as
a major agent for poverty reduction in Jamaica. The project itself was judged by experts in the field to have
delivered more than proportional benefits to the poor, helping to improve their living conditions. It was also
judged successful in building social capital and empowering communities. To be sure, it cannot be
predicted that these benefits will have long term development impact. Nevertheless, the project is
considered to have been relatively effective in meeting its objectives in response to Jamaica's deteriorating
social conditions in the mid- I 990s.
In addition, the impact evaluation study found that JSIF has been successful in building capacity
among other government agencies with far-reaching effects. Notably, it trained the SDC in participatory
approaches to community development and organizational strengthening. Jamaicans in general consider that
this helped to change the Fund from a "welfare" to a "development" agent. In contrast with some more
traditional SIFs, JSIF progressively employed a comprehensive participatory approach. Its interventions
- 12-



designed to build social capital were innovative in the country. They were found to be complex and
time-consuming--but they worked. OED's evaluation concluded that JSIF has had a causal impact on
improvements in trust and communities' capacities for collective action, which was significant.
Moreover, JSIF has been one of the few Bank projects in Jamaica whose activities have been
implemented on time, whose Loan proceeds were disbursed on time with only a minor extension, and who
can refer to visible results on the ground verified by an independent impact evaluation.
Accordingly, the project has been rated "Satisfactory".
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A. The data is too lirnited to assess the economic efficiency of the project. Moreover, the
standard rate of return analysis is not readily applicable for the large number of small, disparate
sub-projects and the absence of s ystematic investment planning.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A (ref. para. 4.3)
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project may have considerable institutional development impact on various governmental and
community groups through its demonstration effects and "learning-by-doing" features. But this would
depend on whether the Fund's methods, approach, values, etc. are widely emulated, and this is too early to
gauge. There is however, the absence of a strategy for further enhancement of the roles of SDC and the
community organizations, the project's relatively meager provisions for JSIF's future development and the
uncertainty of its tenure. On all these accounts, the project's impact is rated "Modest".
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government counterpart funding in the first year of JSIF operations exceeded support from all
other scheduled resources. Subsequently though, these flows were not fully adequate, amounting finally to
only 75 percent of the agreed counterpart funding (ref Annex 2). This lack of funding was due to
deteriorating economic conditions and the Government's needs to inject large sums into the banking system
in the late 1990s. As a consequence, JSIF was able to execute fewer sub-projects than planned. In addition,
JSIF found it difficult to obtain some of the planned contributions from community beneficiaries.
Further, the Fund's sub-par processing pace might have been accelerated if the line agencies had
received greater incentives to complete their task of approving subprojects faster. Similarly, greater support
for JSIF's coordination with related line ministries (e.g. health, education) and sectorial agencies (e.g. water
commission) would possibly have improved some operation and maintenance outcomes.
- 13-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
JSIF's deficiencies during project implementation included a lengthy start up period; insufficient
capacity to respond to a growing demand for funds; and an inadequate management information system
(MIS) during the major part of project implementation. In addition, JSIF's management was unsuccessful
in retaining adequate staff. Over the 1997-2000 period, the Fund only retained 8 percent of its staff, which
contributed to project implementation difficulties (DFID report and ref. para. 7.5 and Annex 11).
The Fund's insufficient supervision of sub-project implementation was exacerbated by the poor
performance of numerous contractors and consultants who formulated, implemented and/or supervised
subproject activities. Various contractors had cash flow problems and routinely did not meet deadlines.
Consultants hired for external supervision did not uniformly exercise due diligence in carrying out their
duties. These problems were compounded by instances of violence, theft, intimidation and alleged extortion
on construction sites in some communities. Furthermore, JSIF only began to systematically evaluate the
performance of contractors and consultants relatively late in the project period. Overall, JSIF management
did not move in a timely manner to enforce measures suggested by the Bank, to improve the contractor's
compliance with their tasks. To remedy this situation, in part, the Fund could have availed itself of the
funding plan's allocation for training contractors to improve their performance and quality of work.
Finally, the JSIF did not manage to reinforce the requirement of a minimum 5 percent community
contribution. This problem could have been avoided by implementing the following three measures: First,
JSIF could have entered into written agreements with the beneficiaries regarding their contributions and
could have possibly collected contributions up-front. Second, JSIF could have been clearer with
beneficiaries on possible negative consequences with their non-compliance regarding contributions, and
third, JSIF could have accounted for these contributions in their MIS.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$50 million. This was calculated to be financed
through the IBRD loan of US$20 million, an IDB loan of US$10 million, other donors' credits of US$5
million, Jamaican Government counterpart funding of US$10 million, and US$5 million from project
beneficiaries or sponsors. The funding plan was amended considerably during project implementation. As
a result, the cost of JSIF subprojects and institutional support set out in the project plan totaled only
US$41.8 million (ref. Annex 2), mainly due to insufficient counterpart funding (US$7.5 million instead of
agreed US$10 million), and deficient community/sponsor contributions. However, the Jamaican dollar was
devalued during this period, effectively providing JSIF with additional resources. In addition, the Fund
succeeded in mobilizing additional external support, including $14.3 million from the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) and US$3.9 million from the European Union (EU) in 2001. In the aggregate,
the final sum of project financing was approximately US$60 million.
Actual sub-project costs varied on average some 13 percent from their appraisal estimates. JSIF
attributed these differences to change orders which resulted from poor subproject design and appraisal,
price increases caused by inflation and market trends, and adjustments in quantities of materials. In
particular, road and community center subprojects had relatively higher costs than those estimated at
appraisal.
- 14 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
JSIF. The prospects for JSIF's continued existence remain uncertain as it still only enjoys a
temporary mandate, and decisions have not yet been made by the Government on the future of JSIF. There
is a general belief in Jamaica that the Fund has played an important role in providing a critical service, and
is a good institution whose work is unfinished. On this account, the Government has helped mobilize
funding for its continuation for thz next two years from several external donors together with its own
counterpart support. Currently, the JSIF is being considered as the executing agency for a new
Bank-funded National Community Development project.
JSIF's continuing temporary status is hardly unusual. OED's October 2001 report oni similar
organizations found that most social funds were conceived as temporary organizations with short-term
objectives, but their mandates have been extended. Furthermore, it reported that, in general, countries are
not making much effort to reduce the heavy dependence of social funds on external funding or to integrate
them as mainstream government agencies. The report concluded that the lack of clarity in the funds' roles
relative to other agencies becomes a serious issue as the scale and scope of social funds operations expand.
This review of the Jamaican project endorses the results of OED's study.
If JSIF's tenure was extended to at least the medium term, its institutional sustainability would
require considerable restructuring, and some consolidation of its accomplishments. It would be also be
important to have some transfer of JSIF's lessons to regular public sector institutions, along with at least
some of its institutional know-how. This is likely to require attractive incentives and a policy environment
conducive to change. Further, regardless of the decision to be taken, the Government will need to
define--and enforce--more effective arrangements for coordinating JSIF' activities with line agencies
working in the sectors affecting poverty reduction.
If the Fund remains alive or if its staff move to another entity, much would have to be done to
stabilize its personnel problem in order to avoid constant turnover. During the period of 1999-2001 the
turnover rate of technical staff w;as 26.3 percent. Furthermore, during this period, there were, never more
than 34 technical positions filled of the total 56 positions available. This constituted a virtual "revolving
door" situation. In addition, it would be necessary to improve the performance and efficiency of the staff.
JSIF sub-projects. JSIF's focus on engaging the community in the selection/implementation of
subprojects probably strengthened the prospects for sustaining the works completed. The impact evaluation
found that community participation levels were high, and that these were positively related with sub-project
utilization and indications of positive community ownership. However, more might have been done to
ensure high quality works. Better collaboration with the Government's sector ministries would have been
indispensable to obtain--and conlinue--adequate operation and maintenance of the project's infrastructure
investments. Clarifying the responsibility of bearing the costs of operating the Fund was vital and required
more technical assistance than was provided. This point however, should not be exaggerated, mainly
because the Fund-supported activities in such fields as road building and school rehabilitation were
considerably smaller than the on-going operations of the pertinent central (and permanent) government
agencies.
Another requirement for sustaining the project works is to improve the definition and realization of
- 15-



the benefiting communities' cash/kind and/or other financial contributions. The prospects for sustainability
of the OS and SS sub-projects have not been thoroughly assessed by the project's final evaluation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Uncertain, for the reasons discussed in para. 6.1. In the short-run, it is reported that JSIF will
employ the CDB, EU and Jamaican Government funding to continue its activities islandwide. Also, the
Bank is presently preparing a new National Community Development Project to be implemented by JSIF.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's work in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was generally
carried out well, notwithstanding the several deficiencies discussed in para. 3.5.
The task team effectively mobilized PHRD funds during project preparation, which helped to
establish a government management unit and technical assistance for designing JSIF. This was followed by
equally useful and timely Bank help for the Government's initiation of the Fund's operations and refinement
of its procedures through the processing of some pilot subprojects. In these project preparation activities,
the Bank team collaborated successfully with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and DFID.
The project appraisal was rated as satisfactory overall. The results demonstrated that the financial
package and the lending instrument selected were appropriate. Moreover, the appraisal led to the
development of suitable mechanisms and policies for this new institution and type of activities. It also
resulted in the installation of appropriate arrangements for effective project implementation. Furthermore,
the team succeeded in helping the Government obtain support for the project from the British and Dutch
Governments as well as from the IDB.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first year, the tracking of the SIF operation in the Project Status Report system was
documented in a relatively meager manner, especially regarding implementation progress and safeguard
policy concerns. No effort was made to track the status of performance indicators, nor was there much
indication of the procurement, works supervision and MIS difficulties that mounted over time. However,
this reporting improved progressively during project implementation.
Much higher quality supervision was demonstrated in the organization and conduct of the project's
mid-term review. This exercise provided a good diagnosis, and usefully identified several important
corrective actions for project problems, and it set the basis for helpful project modifications. These served
to improve both JSIF's progress in implementing the operation and its re-direction towards better
accomplishment of its development objectives. Subsequent Bank supervision efforts helped to provide much
needed follow-up and additional advice on major remaining issues, such as the reorganization of the
institution, improved mechanisms for supervision of subprojects, and a focus on maintenance and better
collaboration with line ministries and NGOs. This also included the resolution of the counterpart financing,
financial management and procurement problems that caused the downgrading of the project rating to
"unsatisfactory" in late 2000. These problems were addressed satisfactorily by the implementing agency so
that the project was again rated "satisfactory" since early 2001.
- 16-



The Bank's financial management supervision can be characterized as insufficient in the early
years of project preparation and implementation, with improvement in the final 2 years. This is partly
evidenced by the initial lack of participation of FM staff in supervision missions and the lack of follow-up
with regard to the first audit report, in spite of numerous issues being raised. Initial weaknesses in Bank
financial management supervision have been attributed to, among other factors, limited Bank expertise
available in the early years of this project. However, once systematic weaknesses in JSIF's intemal control
system were detected, the Bank paid increased attention to the issue with a number of supervision missions
and audit reviews and improved the "unsatisfactory" rating of the project's financial managemnent aspects
within 6 months.
Similarly, procurement supervision grew stronger during project implementation. An ex-post
procurement review of JSIF's contracting procedures and practices carried out in the year 2000 revealed
weaknesses that led the Bank to declare misprocurement in the case of two contracts. The Govemment took
appropriate action to remedy the situation so that, after some months, procurement could be rated
"satisfactory".
The number and timing (if supervision missions appears to have been adequate. These missions
often involved IDB staff, with whom there was effective collaboration under their parallel financing
arrangemnents. Similarly, both the IDB and DFID participated in the mid-term review. Conversely, Bank
supervision was not well served by the undesirable change in task managers three times over the relatively
short project implementation period. This may have contributed to some of JSIF's problems in project
implementation.
In addition, there were some strains in relationships with the Borrower. The latter has complained
about the absence of grant funds and more technical assistance for research and development, as well as for
the strengthening of the SDC and NGOs. The Borrower was troubled by some IBRD communication and
supervision patterns. The expression of these sentiments is not atypical, especially given the inexperience of
the new implementing agency and the fiduciary situation described above.
Bank supervision activities constructively included concerted independent project evaluations the
results of which were discussed with the Borrower and were used to develop action plans to implement the
most important recommendations of the studies. However, the Bank did not always succeed in encouraging
the implementing agency to make- appropriate use of these results.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Satisfactory, iTI view of the assistance rendered to the Government inT establishing a
successful social fund operation whose policies, procedures and practices were superior to regular public
sector standards.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower established1 the Project Preparation Management Unit in March 1995, for which it
contributed US$50,297. This unit participated actively in the extensive consultations held on the proposed
project, to which the Governmenl demonstrated full commitment. It was moreover quite candid in
discussing the related issues. The authorities also agreed to a "hands-off' approach and private sector
- 17 -



representation on the JSEF Board of Directors, among others.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government supported JSIF's finances, save for a relatively limited episode of failure to
provide the pledged counterpart funds in the later years. It did not interfere in JSIF operational decisions
but supported JSIF when necessary (e.g. reimbursement for misprocurement). On the other hand, the
Government's provisions for assisting the Fund to obtain and retain adequate staffing proved to be
inadequate. Their salary levels were comparable with those of regular civil servants, but JSIF contracts
were made on only one-year terms (although extendable). Those employed did not receive some of the
customary civil service benefits, e.g., interest-free loans, duty exemptions for car purchases, or study leave
possibilities. These and related factors are believed to have fueled some of the injurious excessive turnover
in the Fund staff, which is discussed in para. 7.6 and elsewhere in this report.
In addition, the Government could have made a greater, and earlier effort to better coordinate the
Fund's and line ministries' responsibilties for adequate maintenance of completed project works, and to find
innovative solutions for the problems that arose.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As a fledgling organization operating in a new range of activities, JSIF encountered a not so
unexpected wide range of problems. Therefore, JSIF only slowly overcame many of its difficulties during
the project period. The 1998 mid-term reviewers noted that JSIF found it difficult to meet its objectives
because of a combination of higher than expected costs, somewhat cumbersome procedures and a
non-conducive socio-cultural environment. It also became necessary to reorganize the Fund in 2000, which
led to a steady gain in competence on the part of JSIF. This was particularly commendable as the Fund was
operating with considerable turnover of both management and staff. This also led to an improvement in
employee motivation and interest in improving the Fund, both of which were commended by Bank
supervision missions.
The appraisal concluded that JSIF's administrative and operating expenses should be about 15
percent of total project costs. This was already relatively high compared to other social funds. However,
personnel, rent and operating expenses were known to be costly in Jamaica, and it was also understood that
JSIF's temporary status could entail greater than ordinary administrative costs. To its credit, the Fund's
administrative expenses were fairly constant throughout the four-year implementation period. Nevertheless,
particularly at the outset, JSIF's tardy pace of subproject implementation restricted disbursements. This led
to higher than targeted administrative costs relative to project costs. This might have been lower save for
the fact that the Fund had to replace some of its initial staff with more expensive employees for auditing
and other technical tasks. Despite these impediments, JSIF was able to reduce administrative costs to 14
percent in its fourth year of operation with more rapid disbursements. Overall though, the Fund calculated
its administrative cost average over July 1996-July 2001 to be 26.4 percent, which was excessive.
The Fund's subproject processing was quite slow throughout, adversely affecting its productivity
and the project's accomplishments. The record of this performance (detailed in para. 4.2) indicates that
JSIF's performance in this core of its operations was mediocre to poor. But it bears noting that the Fund,
while going through its learning process, had to simultaneously establish an adequate responsiveness to
community demands and obtain significant local involvement in its operations. These were not simple tasks
- 18-



as reflected in the relatively high rejection rate of proposals. In addition, the Fund later had to improve its
oversight of project design and then overcome the difficulties of functioning in inner city communities,
where conditions require a faster response time and greater flexibility. These posed substantial
management challenges.
Over the entire course of project execution, the Fund complied relatively well with sector policies,
norms, and technical standards. It also carried out reasonably good coordination with rector and various
other institutions. In this connection incidentally, it warrants taking into account that JSIF's participatory
approach required it to deal with a wide array of stakeholders. These included subproject sponsors and
beneficiaries, community-based organizations, central government units, parish councils,
Non-governmental organizations end the Social Development Commission. Similarly, the Fund had to
temper its initial demand-generation push, and later to actually curb what amounted to excessive demand
for project fund resources. Its staff was substantially challenged therefore to obtain a more rapid output of
projects as well as to innovate more participatory approaches.
As with many Social Investment Funds, disbursements from the loan account were slow at the
beginning of the project, but accelerated considerably in subsequent years. As of the date of this report,
JSIF has disbursed 100 percent oi the IBRD loan.
Audit reports have generally been submitted to the Bank within the time required. The first and
second reports identified a number of serious issues of intemal control, which were eventually followed up
by JSIF, the Bank, and the auditors, thus improving JSIF's control environment. At project closing,
however, there were still control issues to be solved. In addition to the annual financial audits, JSIF's
extemal auditors also carried out a "management audit," which was published in June 2000. Among other
things, the report indicated mismatches between the skills of certain employees and their assigned duties,
and some intemal control issues beyond those mentioned in financial audits. It also re-iterated certain
issues that had been mentioned in prior Management Letters issued in conjunction with financial audits.
As noted above, audit reports identified a number of financial management issues in JSIF -
considerably more than in a typical Bank project. The JSEF financial team, while staffed with only three
individuals, performed commendably in improving the recordkeeping, accounting, and financial reporting
function. An early problem, identified by the auditors, was that funds were being comingled - i.e. funds of
one source were being temporarily used to finance expenditures of another - and audit reports noted that
the recordkeeping related to this "cross-financing" was not sufficient. This problem appeared to have been
largely corrected during the last months of the project.
Bank reviews of SOEs generally found that JSIF maintained adequate support documentation, and
that expenditures were eligible for financing. In a few cases, however, support documentation could not be
located. The recordkeeping funcl ion - for procurement as well as financial information - was at the
beginning rather poor but showed general improvement throughout the project's life.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformnance:
The borrower's performance overall is judged Satisfactory, based on the factors elaborated in
para. 7.4 - 7.6.
- 19 -



8. Lessons Learned
* Strong leadership, coupled with the effective implementation of proven SIF policies and practices,
helped to create a relatively efficient, new type of government mechanism for addressing poverty
problems.
* A demand-driven, participatory approach succeeded in giving the poor some empowerment.
* The improvements of SDC demonstrated a social investment fund's capability of influencing other
agencies' approaches to poverty remediation. It requires a careful project design and continuing
surveillance from project authorities and those charged with directing Government resources to mitigate
poverty.
* Estimating the processing time of subprojects has to take into account the level of social capital and
social cohesion in the communities to be served.
* Creating a social fund for short run purposes with an undefined tenure can be useful for dealing with
emergencies, demonstrating novel approaches, etc. However, uncertainties about a fund's longevity or
future may readily cause undesirable ambiguities or competitiveness within the public administration.
* Projects designing social funds under open ended conditions should therefore build in mechanisms for
dealing with continuity issues (ref. para. 3.5).
* Efforts to create a new kind of institution and to introduce new ways of providing services and building
infrastructure require greater assessment of the organization's technical assistance needs and their
fulfillment (ref. para.3.5).
* Implementation of the recommendations of the management audit should be made mandatory to ensure
an adequate institutional structure and staff capacity.
* An ex-ante capacity assessment of prospective partners (NGOs, private sector (contractors) and
government agencies would have helped to more clearly define capacity building activities for these
partners through the project.
*   It is unlikely that an attempt to install a management information system in a "foreign" language would
be successful and that its development and implementation would not impair the efficacy of
operations (ref. para. 3.5).
*   Even with a professional firm contracted to improve the Management Infornation System, the Bank
should help the implementing agency to ensure quality and timeliness of service delivery.
* Fiduciary matters (financial management and procurement) should receive adequate attention from the
start and should be carried out by experienced, professional staff. Systematic training of new project
staff and regular follow up during Bank supervision is commendable (ref. para. 7.6).
*   It is not easy to obtain or monetize a community's scheduled contribution to locally based investment
projects, for which a study of "best practices" in SIF-type activities would be helpful.
- 20 -



* Rural roads and small scale vater projects are difficult to implement in a sustainable way and should
therefore receive special attention if included in the project menu of an inexperienced Social Fund.
*   A change in the Bank's Task M!anagement (three times during project implementation) has a cost to the
Borrower and to the Bank and should be avoided.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 21 -



Jamaica Social Investment Fund (Loan no. 4088-JM)
Implementation Completion Report
Borrower's Assessment
1. Introduction
1.1. The Government of Jamaica's comments are intended to provide a
brief assessment of the achievements of the Jamaica Social Investment
Fund (GOJ's designated Executing Agency) and the [BRD in meeting
the objectives under the loan agreement no. 4088-JM. The comments
are intended to highlight a number of key lessons leamed in the design
and execution of the loan.
1.2. The Govemment of Jamaica has essentially fulfilled all the
obligations of the loan signed in December 1995 which resulted in the
establishment of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF). JSIF was
established as a key component of the National Poverty Eradication
Programme approved by Cabinet in October 1995 to channel
resources to poor communities to support the development of social
and economic infrastructure, social services and organisational
strengthening. The IBRD loan was for US $20 million under an
overall package of funds amounting to US$45 million (excluding
beneficiary contribution) over four years.
1.3. JSIF continues to provide support to poor communities through its
newly negotiated funding from the European Union and the
Caribbean Development Bank. It has earned a reputation for its pro
poor and participatory approaches and has the continued support of
the Govemment of Jamaica. Since nationally it is generally regarded
as a success story, the comments presented here are to be seen in this
context and are provided in the spirit of constructive criticism to assist
both JSIF and IBRD in future projects.
2. Assessment of Project objective, design, implementation and
operation experience
2. 1. 'rhe primary goal of the Project was to contribute to the reduction
of poverty through assisting the Government of Jamaica to respond to
- 22 -



the needs of the most vulnerable who were not being served by
existing programmes. This objective was timely and appropriate but
was somewhat hampnered by the non-performance or non-
capitalisation of other programmes under the National Poverty
Eradication Programme (NPEP). The demand for the limited JSIF
resources consequently was far more than anticipated and became an
additional constraint to efficient processing of requests and sub-
projects.
2.2. In order to channel beinefits to the poor and ensure minimal leakage
to the non-poor, JSIF needed to develop a transparent and highly
focused community-targeting strategy. Early on, JSIF recognised the
shortcomings of rclianie on the Poverty Map and introduced
supplementary measures' to ensure concentration of benefits to the
poor.
2.3. JSIF was designed to tackle public poverty radt   then private
poverty. Employment and housing (private poverty) continued to be
major problems facing pcor people and JSIF was put under pressure to
respond. However, the project menu developed from extensive
consultations during the design phase of JSIF was largely appropriate
throughout the loan period and enabled some amount of self targeting.
An area in which JSIF would have liked to have responded more
positively was sanitation. Although poor sewage and waste disposal is
a public issue, the solutions to this were largely private. Regrettably,
only recently, has JSIF been able to pilot responses to this area of
severe need. Economic infrastructure was defined as agricultural
feeder roads and urban ascess roads whereas useful investments might
also have been made in footpaths/bridges and steps, particularly in
hilly rural areas. Bridges were not on the menu largely because of the
project funds ceiling btit this constrained investment in important
economic access for large numbers of fanners and JSIF did not have
sufficient leverage to mobilise altemative finding for bridges.
Evidence of land tenure was required for infrasbucture projects and
this proved to be a constraint for some poor communities, particularly
those residing on capturae land.
2.4. Linked to the issue of clearly differing manifestations of poverty in
rural and urban areas and the fact that funding for urban areas was
'These measures did not aubstitute for the Poveny Map but mitigated againsl wtms or tho
shortomninss of the Map, The Poverty Map is over aggregated so Ihas distinci communuities we
subsumed, rdics on 1991 dal antd does not adequatcly capture rurl and urban mmanistations of
gVI5I3 l ni WYA  UIt U I W  UA3  j   4u;4uJafLcg) WUgm   S ulal  tUIiI IflIS iUM I W
- 23 -



ptedicated largely on the findings of the Urban Violence and Poverty
Study commissioned by the World Bank, the menu of projects for
rural and urban areas should have been more distinct. In time, JSIF
evolved its own understanding of appropriate responses to urban
deprivation and the concomitant social capital deficits2. JSIF would
have benefited from timely exposure to other SIFs and programmes
working in violent inner city areas in defining the kinds of investmenl
which make a difference.
2.5. JSIF was established as an autonomous Government company and
this arrangement seems to have been largely satisfactory allowing it
the needed flexibility to innovate, recruit short term and highly
qualified staff, make speedy procurements and establish an enabling
work environment. Early suspicion made way for mostly collaborative
arrangements with line ministries and a recognition that its autonomy
has enabled pilot approaches, pro-poor and transparent targeting and
efficient implementation, all of which can be difficult within the
traditional Government framework.
2.6. JSIF was designed to respond to the demands of poor communities.
This would not have been possible within most Ministries, both
because of their wider mandate to all communities and because of
their inherent sector specificity. The approach taken is designed by
ISIF to ensure that scarce resources are channelled where they are
most needed and to contribute to sustainability in that communities
would be expected to value and maintain interventions which they
view as responses to their development priorities. This approach has
major benefits but requires a multi-disciplinary staff that is capable of
intellectual gymnastics. The variety of project requests which could be
entertained under the Fund posed challenges at all stages of
implementation as well as in impact evaluation,
2.7. JSIF had to pioneer approaches to ensure community consultation
and responsiveness to needs. This involved collaboration with the
Social Development Commission and extensive technical assistance to
that organisation to -a7ssist in moving it from a welfare to a facilitating
modus operandus. Although some of this assistance took the form of
an organizational strengthening project frunded under the KRU)B loan,
much was enabled by grant assistance from DFID.
2v A__. ~..C..___ . _f_  {9:.. _. __:__.__.J L. -L.Q_  A  t   --.iAl.
us i  qaIs ;3ULIaI rB uaIVf  US Ilihig wI..IS *uhhhhlIUIfmulf  uy UK WVIIu  ii&. IVYl.
- 24 -



2.8. The diversity of potential investment categories, the innovation
required in several of these categories (e.g. parenting skills, C13B
organisational strengthening, appropriate sanitation solutions) and the
innovativeness of JSIF' s participatory approach provided enormous
challenges particularly as the same staff required to innovate and
develop the required mnethodologies were also charged with rapid
throughput of sub-projects.
2.9. Community based maintenance was another area where the project
design required innovation. Clearly, State finds were insufficient for
the maintenance of tihe small scale community based projects
supported under JSIF and so JSIF has promoted community
involvement in maintenance through the establishment of community
maintenance committees while also providing training (physical
maintenance and find raising) and supporting materials. In a culture
where maintenance has traditionally not been a priority, some amount
of success has been aclhieved and 87% of respondents in the recent
Impact Assessment t ndicated that operation and maintenance
arrangements were at least partially satisfactory and 78% indicated
that the projects were einher well maintained or adequately maintained.
Road and water projects were the most likely not to be well
maintained and this is oflen attributed to poor initial workmanship.
2.10. Communities generagly did not have a problem with understanding
or accepting the requirement for community contribution and the
Impact Assessment indioates a strong correlation between contribution
and sense of ownership of the sub project suggesting that this
approach was appropriate. Some projects did not yield many
opportunities for commumity voluntary labour (the approach preferred
by communities to providing the contribution) and the construction
industry was not open to collaboration on piloting means to diversify
opportunities for contribution (e.g. labour intensive construction
methods, community provision of materials etc).
2.1 1. JSIF was established as a lean organisation dependent on
outsourcing. Infrastructuire design and supervision were main areas of
outsourcing and presented JSF with some of its biggest challenges
and, in retrospect, may have been one of the weakest aspects of the
JSIF design. The size of contracts were regarded as small and the
interest of the Private Sector in working for JSIF was never high
despite the downturn in the construction industry and commitment to
working for the poor was not evident among the targeted
professionals. Despite efforts to train and develop these consultants,
- 25 -



ISIF had very little influence and continues to suffer delays, cost
overruns (often attribuitable to poor design) and poor quality
workmanship.
2.12. JSIF was also established to 'increase national institutional
capacity to identfy desigi implement, manage and sustain small
scale community based projects'. JSIF has provided considerable
training to representatives from public, private and non-govemment
sector partners mostly through grant assistance. The (Governuenl of
Jamaica has been reluctant to use loan funds for capacity building of
service providers. Despite the provision within the loan for technical
assistance, little has been used to support transfer of technology
required to fulfil this objective.
3. Evaluation of Borrower's own performance and lessons learned
At concept stage, major risks were identified; leakage of resources to the
non-poor, political interference and the demand driven nature of the fimd.
3.1  The prevailing economic context within which the loan was
negotiated was characterised by high inflation, exchange rate pressure,
widening extemal imbalances, high interest rates and a fragile
financial sector'. Since then, price stability, which has been at the
centre of the Government's macroeconomic programme has continued
to show success with inflation for the year to December 2000 at 6.1
percent and for the fiscal half year at end September 2001 at 5.7
percent2. On the other hand, continued pressure on the exchange rate
increased significantly coupled with the fallout in the Financial Sector
which necessitated direct intervention of the Govenment, in order to
protect deposits held by thousands of Jamaicans and prevent a total
collapse of the Sector.  These factors seriously challenged the
Govemmnent's ability to remain within its economic targets and
constrained its ability to provide the agreed level of counterpart
funding on a timely basis.
IWord Bank Staff AppraiSal RepcwI p2 para 2 S
2 Planning InsttuIe of Jamaica Statisics
; CI,.mnw.. Inr;>roIiIh.na e( I .oe Cqe.2re  -
- 26 -



3.2  The poverty policy of the government is predicated on the
assumption that a successful poverty eradication programme must
incorporate economic growth while recognising that social
development is integral to and essential for such growth. While some
aspects of the NPEP have not realised fully the anticipated outcomes,
using JSIF as its major vehicle, significant strides have been made in
relation to the guiding principles of the programme, namely:
integration to optimise resources and amplify impact; partnership to
ensure that Governmeni works closely with the Private Sector, NGOs
and CROs, communities and donor/lender agencies; community based
participation involvinl3 communities in identify ing their needs,
designing, implementing and evaluating projects; and targeting to
reach the most deprived communities island-wide.
3.3  JSIF has been succetsful at channelling funds to the poor as clearly
indicated in the recent Impact Assessment. It has also developed a
good reputation amo.ng Ministries and civil society for the
effectiveness of its pro-loor approach. It was only able to do this with
the recognition of the shortcomings of the Poverty Map and the
introduction of supplementary methods to assess poverty, in panicular
to understand and respond to the particular manifestations of urban
poverty and deprivation. An important lesson learned is that where
poverty has multiple dimensions a more balanced rules based
approach must be developed.
3.4  From the outset, the Government conferred on JSIF the autonomy
required to effectively execute its mandate and as a result, JSIF has
rightfully eamed a reputation for being non-partisan in the allocation
of funds. It has achieved this through its stringent adherence to its
poverty targeting strategy and endorsement of these principles in the
media and its public rellations. Without the autonomy conferred on it,
this may not have been easy and such a public image would have
been harder to generate.
3.5  The demand driven nature of the Fund has been a challenge
requiring diverse expertise and adaptability. However, it has clearly
resulted in sub projects which have optimal impact and are valued by
the benefiting communities and must be regarded as an appropriate
approach for small scale community project investment.
- 27 -



3.6  It took some time before JSIF was able to realise the potential and
diversity of support it could provide in the area of social services and
organisational strengthening. Given that both were identified in the
concept stages as important areas for investment, it would have been
usefuil if we had also planned from the outset for technical assistance
and dedicated staff to explore the potentials of this relatively
innovative area of investment. Only recently, has JSIF contracted
dedicated staff for these sectors and a notable increase in demand and
amount of investment is already apparent.
3.7 Sub project impact has been mostly good, with some problem road
and water projects. JSIF regarded its investments in infrastructu  not
as ends in themselves but means to the end of community
empowerment and social capital accumulation. The recent Impact
Assessment not only confinns that the sub projects themselves
achieved the goals intended (e.g. economic gains for farmers.
improved school environment etc) but also that further community
action has been enhanced, community based organisations are better
supported and linkages with outside agencies are improved. The latter
are attributed to the participatory approach adopted by JSIF.
3.8  JSIF has managed to get good value for money and is noted for
this. However, it has struggled with the construction industry from the
outset. Cost overruns, time delays and poor quality workmanship all
resulted from an inadequate and weak relationship with the industry.
The industry is generally resistant to change and at times does not
appear to have an interest in working for the poor. Much of the
innovations introduced by JSIF required co-operation of this industry
e.g. user input in design, community representation on steering
committees, community contribution, community monitoring and sign
off on satisfaction etc. In hindsight these innovations would have had
a better chance of acceptance had demonstration of benefits been
possible. On reflection, JSTF could possibly have engaged an 'in
house' team of design and supervision consultants and developed their
skills, attitude and support for these innovations. This team could then
have been used to test these new approaches and provided JSIF with a
stonger position from which to introduce them as industry wide
nomis.
3.9  Whilst effective, JSIF has acknowledged deficiencies in its level of
efliciency. Sub projects have taken an inordinately long time for
implementation. 'There are many contributing factors: much larger
than anticipated numbers of requests; broadening consultation to
- 28 -



ensure wider community involvement, imposed lengthy tendering and
contracting procedures; high JS1F staff turnover (resulting in loss of
momentum and project information); design delays (possibly
attributable partly to lack of imposition of stringent penalties);
communication problems between Kingston and remote rural areas;
inner city violence; cash flow problems experienced by contractors;
authorisation of variations and poor supervision.
3.10 JSIF administrative costs were high initially buts by the fourth year,
JSIF was able to more than halve these. JSIF found that in order to
attract the calibre of staff needed, it had to offer attractive salaries.
Vehicle cost, office rent and utilities are all higb in Jamaica compared
to other SIF countries. Technical assistance costs were included with
administrative costs and ierved to inflate the latter. A recommendation
for the fiuture would be to clearly differentiate between technical
assistance and adminisbration costs, excluding technical assistance
cost from computations aimed at measuring the administrative
efficiency of the organization. Furthermore, a learning organisation
such as JSIF requires considerable technical assistance and
opportunities to pilot and innovate. Funds for this must be specifically
earmarked and negotiated in advance rather than running the risk, as
has happened herem of a reluctance to use loan funding for service
provider capacity building over community development.
3.11 JSIF adopted a compluterised MIS programme from El Salvador
which proved to be unsuitable for the JSIF context Much time was
used trying to customise this system with the final conclusion that this
was a lost cause. Only in! 1999 did JSIF take the bold step to develop
its own MIS from scratch. The absence of a fully functional MIS
system has severely hampered ISlE's operational efficiency.
4 Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and lessons learned
4.1. The decision to provide loan assistance for small scale community
projects was timely and appropriate based on the prevailing socio-
economic conditions facing Jamaica The fact that the IBRD
collaborated with 1DB in the preparation of the loan was useful as it
prevented duplication of effort and ensured conformity in approach,
The decision to include EIFID as a technical assistance grnt provider
was inspired and, with hindsight, could have been expanded to include
social services technical assistance and 'from inception' support to
JSIFs primary partner, SDC.   The latter is the Government's
- mnl agenic-, respon9if-e - m  A   gd
- 29 -



facilitating community development. DFID support enabled much
necded research and development assistance which was flexible and
easy to mobilise. Other grant fulnds for technical assistance were
identified, Netherlands Trust Fund and EU, however, at the
Netherland's request, the finds were used to finance smaller
infrastructure sub-projects. The EU support did not come on stream
until September 2001.
4.2. Design weaknesses included an insuflicient appreciation of the
construction indusury and its willingness to change, inadequate
recognition of the scale of the challenge to introduce a community
demand driven approach and consequently inadequate technical
support funds for research and development and technical assistance
and an inadequate assessment of SDC's and NGO's capacity. It would
have been helpful if direct grant funds had been made available to
support the capacity building of both SDC and the NGO sector, moreso
the latter, given the IBRD's major concem  with the JSIF/NGO
partnership.
An initial extremely close and collaborative relationship between JSIF
and the IBRD seemed, from ISIF's perspective, to dwindle to one
where IDRB appeared critical rather than supportive and collaborative
in problem solving. This may also have been exacerbated by the shift
from Supervision being provided initially through the Resident
Mission to Washington, limiting regular dialogue and interction.
JSIF was generally given very short notice of Supervision Missions
making it very difficult to ensure that staff, partners or communities
were available to work with the Mission. The expectation to fit in with
IDRB agenda and timing was contrary to the participatory approaches
which JSIF was trying to promote. The Mission TORs were rarely
available in advance and the decision to highlight particular issues in
any particular Mission was not shared so it was hard for JSIF to
understand the context. The composition of Mission teams was
likewise not clear. Not only did the Task Manager change three times
in the period of the loan, there was very little continuity among
Supervision Mission team members. JSIF found this to be a drawback
to collaborative problem solving, as the special circumstances of
Jamaica had to be explained over and over. The Supervision Missions'
agenda was always IBRD driven. JSIF also found that there was
ambiguity surrounding interpretation of IBRD policy at times and
different Missions provided different views leaving JSIF with the
difficult task of trying to make sense of these mixed messages.
- 30 -



During Missions, JSIF was frequently exposed to unfavourable
comparisons with other SlWs working in very different environments
and contexts. The problems JSIF faced with the use of the Poverty Map
were huge. IBRD need not have insisted that JSIF use a tool, which
was clearly faulty, but insiead should have questioned whether the
tools JSIF had adopted led to) good poverty targeting. Similarly, instead
of constantly criticising tei limited partnership with NOOs and
promoting at times artificiall and inappropriate arrangements, it might
have been more helpful if the IBRD had tried to understand the unique
context and dynamic nature of the Jamaican NGOs and encourage
what JSIP now does, which is to engage'NGOs in organisational
strengthening  and  sociall service  project development and
implementation.
With regards to the Netherlhnds Trust Fund, it appears that the IBRD
did not assign adequate importance to its role as Administrator given
the frequency with which finds from this source were unavailable for
disbursement to JSIF.
In the final analysis, JSIF di(i not receive the full amount available due
apparently to delays on the part of IBRD in making calls for these
funds and the later devaluation of the currency of the Grant in relation
to the US dollar.
Janaica Social Investtnent Find
10-12 Grenada Crescent
Kingston 5
November 30. 2001
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
,Ta~2eS (ctS~.j ;                         Actual (Oct. -     e.
Indicators                 :Yf+i '. Yr2  ' Yr 3     Yr4     Yr~'         Yr1I    Yr2     Yr3     Yr4     Oct.    All
2000 - Years
presnt
Project
Social  Infrastructur  projects  0 '' . '1 2,  ~'0'    0    7       Z      0       21      24      60      2 1     12
completed
Economic Infrastructure projects  0-           0'     10    20~            1       4       16      20       3      44
completed__                   _ ___            _ _  _ _ _ _
Social Services projects completed s.0  6  >;24,L '~  24      0     '      0       2    1   1       2       2   1   7
Organisational  Strengthening  -0   "1        40      5      0      3      0   0            3       8      36      4
projects completed__                    _____        ___
_____________________________                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~224
Approved Projects                t
Number of projects approved  71.      84   4J20-      1247~ 4W"'   4       2 1     75      100     100     49      345
Avemage #of approvals per month  .8                   lo,"'  1  > 1  0 -   2       6        9       8      11      7.2
Average cost of approved projects  2`5-  >5~.  .5,0   5.0    0      8',    6.2     51      38      17      16      84
Total ntimber of direatbeneficiaries  10800  12.600  1 $000  1860 ~ 0 0) 130,000  185,515  126,859  751,029  19001
Average  ntumber  of  direct  '1 50-:  i O    150    I1O    '             6,190   2,474   1,232    7510    594
Investments mSocial Infrastructure <0 6 60    60             0             97      43      74      72      70      65
Investments  in   Economic   25       25  _''25   ''2        O-1                   5        3       I       9       2
InvestTnents inSocia1Servic ess'10 ;10'_<10         1+ 
Investmnents in  Organisational  5            5~" -~'"0' "         5       0        I       3       1 2     19      4
Total DisbursementsS$Jm     ,643     360     57'P'     0,-0'        9i     86      277     438     575.1   71.62  1447.72
77T797  "aO      6~"" ~ -22"4K0 Lq!  91099   2.4     7.2     11.4    13.4    1.56    35.96
Sub-projects                    "'4:<6%'0      6"'8%. .,..~6              35%      61%     80%     86%     66%     70%/
Admninistration                '">4""4%             "1o      0      .     65%      3%      2/a     1%      340/    30
Average time between application  '.  `4';,` -'t-3    2      0         '5.8        5.5    1o0+++   5++     N/a    14+"-"
Projects Suspended/Cancelled in  '45%-"  `50o "5%  '5%itjf 1'5Y  '~0>'    5%      2%      5%      4%      4%      N/A
10 ~~". 10t"'~~~ ~l0~~" ~'I0'~~ 0  10 ~ 0  n/a     I       14      1       6
2.0     20      '0      20   '/0     2       27      n/a  122         24      43   1  21
Quartile 3  ~ ~       .30:", 1730''    30 O-    0    3~"'      .     0      n/a  138         34      34      31
.40z     40W     40""          -%V0'". 0'  407W_a              3       19      5       37
multi  _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _   __ __                             0D     '   0    1  N/a  1   5       9     1 18   1  5
(I) * Estimated.  Includes 2 projects (Spanish Town Sewerage Plant, and Police community Relations OS), which have an
estimated 597,544 beneficiaries.
(2) "*Budget projections for Jan. 2001 -Sept. 200 1 Exchange rate used J$44.89 = US$ 1.
(3) + Direct and indirect beneficiaries.
(4) ++Since Year 4 JSIF targeted more resources to smaller, less costly sub-projects owing to the limited funds that were
available.
This meant that Social Services and Organisational Strengthening sub-projects received more investments during this period.
(5) -   I- Time between registration and conversion to project is not included. The majority of these sub-projects approved were
in a backlog of requests already received.
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest    % of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component     US$ million    US$ million
1. JSIF Institutional support
Salaries                         5.678          5.720       100.74
Vehicles and Equipment           0.480          0.777       161.88
Operating Expenses               1.738          2.161       124.34
Technical Assistance and         1.400          1.365        97.50
Training
Subtotal Institutional Suport    9.296         10.023       107.82
DFID Technical Assistance Grant  0.000          0.784        (100)
2. JSIF Subprojects
Social Infrastructure           29,409*        20.485        69.65
Economic Infrastructure          5.859          8.491       144.92
Social Services                  2.784          0.634        22.77
Organizational Strengthening     2.553          1.251        49.00
Subtotal Subprojects            40.605         30.861        76.00
3. Financial Expenses (01B)      0.100*         0.100         0.00
Total Baseline Cost             40.705         30.961        76.06
Total Project Costs             50.000         41.768        83.54
Total Financing              50.000         41.768        83.54
Required
*   See Staff Appraisal Report # 15615 JM (d/d Aug 1996) - Table 6.1.
* Adjusted to show IDB financial expenses.
* Additional funding of US$14M[ from CDB not included.
- 33 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category  ICB       NCB        Other2    N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works              0.00       3.90        6.40     17.10     27.50
(0.00)     (3.9)       (6.40)   (0.00)    (10.30)
2. Goods              0.00       1.60        1.30     4.90       7.80
(0.00)     (1.60)      (1.30)   (0.00)     (2.90)
3. Services           0.00       0.00        2.00     3.30       5.30
(0.00)     (0.00)      (2.00)   (0.00)     (2.00)
4. Miscellaneous      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.10)*      (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)
Total              0.00        5.50        9.70     25.30     40.60
(0.00)     (5.50)      (9.70)   (0.00)     (15.20)
* See Staff Appraisal Report # 15615 JM (d/d Aug 1996) - Table 6.3.
* Amount used to compensate for rounding/addition errors on Table.
- 34 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category  ICB        NCB        Other2     N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works              0.00        9.97       6.488      14.223     30.681
(0.00)      (3.90)      (5.54)    (0.00)      (9.44)
2. Goods              0.17        0.00       0.381      0.345       0.896
(0.17)      (3.21)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (3.38)
3. Services           0.00        0.00        0.68      0.281      0.961
(0.00)      (2.58)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (2.58)
4. Miscellaneous     '0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous      0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00
(10.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous      0).00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
Total               0.17       9.97        7.549     14.849      32.538
(0.17)      (9.69)      (5.54)    (0.00)      (15.40)
1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
contingencies.
2. Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to
local government units.
- 35 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Ap raisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Bank     Govt.   CoF.     Bank     Govt.    CoF.    Bank     Govt.   CoF.
1. JSIF Institutional
support
Salaries             3.446   0.764    1.468    2.697   2.453    0.571    78.26   321.07   38.89
Vehicles and         0.240    0.120   0.120    0.177    0.554   0.046    73.75   461.67   38.33
Equipment
Operating Expenses   0.869    0.435   0.434    0.979    1.181   0.012    112.65  271.49    2.76
Technical            0.119   0.119    1.162    0.808    0.224   0.333   678.99   188.24   28.66
Assistance and
Training
Subtotal Institutional  4.674  1.438  3.184    4.661   4.412    0.956    99.72   306.82   30.03
Suooort
DFID Technical       0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000   0.000    0.684    0.000   0.000    (100)
Assistance Grant
2. JSIF Subproiects
Social Infrastructure  11.111  6.208  12.19    8.503    2.172   9.810    76.53    34.99   80.48
Economic             2.206    1.233   2.420    5.758    0.495   2.238   261.02    40.15   92.48
Infrastructure
Social Services      1.045    0.586   1.153    0.211    0.159   0.264    20.19    27.13   22.89
Organizational       0.961    0.536   1.056    0.867    0.298   0-227    90.22    55.59    21.49
Strengthening
Subtotal Subproiects  15.323   8.563  6.716    15.339   3.100   12.539  100.10    36.20    75.01
3. Financial          0.000    0.000  0.100    0.000    0.000   0.100    0.000    0.000  100.00
Expenses (IDB)
!Total              20.000    10.000  20.000   20.000    7.500   14.279  100.00  75.000   71.390
- 36 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Summary - Economic analysis of 12 Road Projects
No.        Road Project         Cost   Cost   No. of   NPV     IRR
$ /BFY   $m/   BFY/      $m       %
km     km
1    Alston to Ballieston (2000)  1496  2.01    1344    1.61       23
2    Coker Rehabilitation (2000)  2491  2.35     942    -0.46      15
3    Bourbon to Darley (NA)      9895   3.73     376    -0.81      15
4    Delacree Pen Access Repair  1206   1.85    1539    -0.91      12
(18900)
5    Denham Town/Hannah Town      324   1.53    4737    -1.00      13
road rehabilitation (7600)
6    Greenwich           Area    1808   1.81    1000    -0.69      12
rehabilitation (7170)
7    Litchfield to Grove Place   9833   1.75     178     0.00      16
(700)
8    Miles  Town    Community    7449   3.20     444    -5.33       7
(1200)
9    New Market to Kilmamock     6460   1.86     288    -2.53      13
(NA)
10   Top Hill to Lemon Hall (650)  17370  4.47   257    -7.38       7
11   To Mountain Feeder (700)    8908   1.73     194    -1.01      14
12   Whitfield Town Area (25000)  1308  1.58    1204    -0.27      14
Note:    BFY:     Project
Beneficiary                                               _
-37 -



Summary - Economic analysis of 9 Water Projects
No.       Water Project       Unit of   Cost    Cost     Cost     NPV    IRR
(persons in community)  installed  $ /   daily   per unit   $m     %
capacity   BFY   consum   installed
ption   capacity
$/L       $
1    Alston/Ballieston (3500)  Pipeline  246       NA    538 / m  215.6    302
(m)_I                        pipes
2    Ashton Water Supply      Tank      2963      22.8       NA    76.5    295
____  (1200)
3    Cooling Spring (600)     Tank      5906        22       12    25.6     83
4    New Garden (700)         Pipeline   1920      NA        NA    23.9    300
(m)
5    Johnson Mountain (1000)  Tank I    8557     25.35    4.53/L  108.1    163
_ _______________________  pipeline
6    Lorimers Water Supply    Tank /     2778     21.4   578/ m    66.6    148
(750)                    pipeline                    pipes
7    Red Hills (715)          pipeline   3257      NA     667/m    34.6    303
8    Russell's Domestic (800)  Tank /    6005     43.8   3314/m    43.4     93
pipeline
9    Snow Hill (725)          Tank /    4845       NA     700/m    26.3     99
.________________________  pipeline
Note: BFY: Project
Beneficiary
- 38-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/96                       1    Team Leader/Operations             S            S
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/97                         1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
I   FMS
I   Engineer
I   Economist
I   NGO/Social Specialist
Supervision
10/97                        1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
12/97                        1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
1/98                         1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
I   Engineer
I   MIS Specialist
2   NGO Specialists
5/98                         1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
1   Procurement Specialist
1   HR Economist
12/98                        1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
1/99                         1   Team Leader/Operations             S             S
Specialist
1   Economist
1   Poverty Specialist
1   Social Funds Specialist
1   Procurement Specialist
1   FMS
6/99                         1   Team Leader/Economist              S             S
1   Social Funds Specialist,
12/99                        1   Team Leader/Social Funds           S             S
Specialist, procurement, FMS,
NGO/Economnist,
1/00                         1   Team Leader/Social Funds           U             S
Specialist, supervision specialist
3/00                         1   Team Leader/Social Funds           S             S
Specialist, procurement specialist
1   NGO/Economist, FMS
I   Environmental Specialist
2
- 39 -



Social Funds Specialist
2
10/00                        I   Team Leader/Social Funds           S             S
Specialist
2/01                         1   FMS                                S             S
1   Procurement Specialist
5/01                         1   Team Leader/Social Funds           S             S
Specialist
ICR
12/01                       2     SIF Specialists                   S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks     l        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 17                          55
Appraisal/Negotiation                      15                          45
Supervision                               120                         360
ICR                                        16                          50
Total                                     168                         510
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
rI Sector Policies                     O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Li Physical                            OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
L Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
L Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Private sector development           0 -H O SU O M   0 N  * NA
L Public sector management             0 H  0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
OiOther (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
B Lending                                          OHS OS        OU    OHU
E Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
-42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting ]Documents
1. The Poverty Map 1996
2. Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions (JSLC) of the Statistical Institute of Jamaica and the Planning
Institute of Jamaica
3. Report of Mid Term Review Mission, January 1999
4. "The Social Impact of Social Funds in Jamaica", Vijayendra Rao and Ana Maria Ibanez, DECRG,
October 2001
5. "Impact Evaluation of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund, " Interim Final Report (Working Draft),
December 4, 2001, ITAD Limited
6. Beneficiary Assessment, Ximena Traa-Valarezo and others, November-December 1998
7. "Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experience" Operations Evaluation Department, October 2001,
distributed under cover of "CODE2001-0090"
8. Technical Audit, ITAD, Jamaica, 2000
-43 -



Additional Annex 8. JSIF Board Approved Investment by Program Area & Project Type,
1996- April 2001
Program Area   Number of JSIF Board      US$M       Percent of   Percent of
Subprojects  approved                Subprojects   Amount
Cost (J$M)
Social
Infrastructure  183       815.24      20.52        53.80       69.04
Health Centers 13         57.45       1.45         7.10        6.61
Water Systems 31          115.30      2.91         16.94        12.06
Homes        12           51.78       1.31     -   6.56        4.36
ICS          36           195.03      4.92         19.67       16.30
Sanitation   5            25.27       0.64         2.73        1.17
Schools      87           368.51      9.29         47.54       59.30
Day Care     1            1.88        0.05         0.55        0.20
Family       0            0                        0           0
Economic
Infrastructure  56        362.26      9.14         16.50       26.06
Roads        53           357.70      9.02         94.64       98.45
AP           3            4.56        0.12         5.36         1.55
Social Services  20       25.88       0.0.65       5.88         2.12
Conflict     8            8.94        0.23         40.00       29.11
resolution
Counseling  .4            5.3         0.13         20.00        36.71
Skills Training 8         11.64       0.29         40.00        34.18
Organizational 81         45.33       1.14         23.82        3.63
Strengthening  I
Total        340          1,248.71    31.45        100          100
Source: JSIF, 05/22/01. Exchange rate average 1996-2001 US$1: J$39.76.
-44 -



Additional Annex 9. JSIF Board Approved Investment by Poverty Quartile, 1996- April
2001 (%)
Poverty  No. of Communities   Planned            -      Ap roved Allocation
Quartile                      Allocation  1996  1997  1998  1999   2000  2001   Cumulative
________  _______________ _I_                        A verage
Ql               126                 10     0      4     8     0     16    13            6
Q2               124                 20    15     24    15    22     28    26           21
Subtotal         250                 30    15     28    23    22     44    39   _       27
Q3               129                 30     0     12    45    37     34    28           32
Q4               127                 40    79     57    28    37     12    32           37
Subtotal         256                 70    79     69    73    74     46    60           69
Multi                _                0     5      4     4      5    10     0            5
Total            506             100.00   100    100   100    100   100   100          100
Source: JSIF, 05/22/01.
-45 -



Additional Annex 10. JSIF Board Approved Investment by Poverty Quartile, 1996- April
2001 (US$M)
Poverty  No. of Communities  Planned                 Approved Allocation
Quartile                     Allocation  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   Total
Ql               126             3.148     0  0.24  0.69     0   0.60  0.29      1.82
Q2               124             6.296  0.22  1.48  1.34  2.10   1.03  0.46      6.63
Subtotal        250              9.444  0.22  1.72  2.03  2.10   1.63  0.75      8.45
Q3               129              9.44     0  0.73  3.89  3.55   1.25  0.48      9.90
Q4               127            12.592  1.13  3.59  2.41  3.59   0.43  0.54     11.69
Subtotal        256             22.032  1.13  4.32  6.30  7.14   1.68  1.02     21.59
Multi             -                 0   0.08  0.23  0.38  0.44   0.31    0       1.44
Total           506              31.48  1.43  6.27  8.71   9.68  3.62  1.77     31.48
Source: JSIF, 5/22/01. Exchange rate used: J$39.76: US$1.
- 46 -



Additional Annex 11. JSIF Staff Turnover, 1997- April 2001
Year        Total   Terminated      "Turnover
Staff                     Rate"
1996            34
1997            52            2            3.8%
1998            66            7            10.6%
1999            64           19           29.7%
2000            66           16           24.2%
2001            48           12            25.0%
Prepared by E. Araujo, based on JSIT data.
- 47 -



Additional Annex 12. JSIF Project Processing Time, 1997- April 2001 (months)
Project Cycle Stages      1997     1998     1999     2000     2001   Average
Average time between            3        4        7        9        9       6.4
application and registration*
Average time between            6        7        9        5        9        7.2
registration and approval
Average time between approval   8        7        5        4        2       5.2
& contracting
Average time between            1             1        1        1        1
contracting & disbursement
Average number of months in    5.3      4.4      5.7      5.3      7.4      5.6
supervision
Total                          23.3     23.4     27.7     24.3     28.4  ]  25.4
Source: JSIF, 05/22/01.
*Note: Registration refers to the point when a request is converted into a project for appraisal.
-48 -



MAP SECTION






-25 I2   USAJ0          0     0 25I         77130'                   7'000                   7630'
.  THE                     EIvto-
BAHAMAS                    Elevations:
dp       -19W Feet           Meters           J A [V     I CA                        I40-oo.
MEX 0       CUBA            DOMINICAN      5908        1800            Main Arterial Roads     0   Selected Towns
20                           REP
CARIBBEAN        H22954                         900             Main Secondary Roads     @   Parish Capitals
BELIZE   JAMAICA                         1477        450        4    Main Ports                   National Capital
International       591        180        *    International Airports      Parish Boundaries
- B4oundaries 15.
ELGUAGU               7      700                 [     0              Region Boundaries            County Boundaries
7soa                 C A C RIBBEA I
CORNWALL                              oF o                                                   18E30
I&   ~          FALMOUTH                             SEAe_N                             19'30'-
Negril\c            m   rlg -f <ELA Whtoalt Tow ANN Grove>             Gal              Buff  SURREY
l CMONTEGO              ASTANNS                                                              ANTO/I
HallaltEwartoh
MANCHESJE 0 ~ ~ ~    ~    ARI
Montpeliaserer_BA
* 0.) ~~v?  Rocky onePoint
II   mefiel            I                 ,                    0









IMAGING
Report No.:         23300
Type:      ICR



