Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 15615 JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
August 1, 1996
Jamaica Resident Mission
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dollar (J$)
US$1 = J$40
(as of April, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO                             Community-based Organization
GDP                             Gross Domestic Product
GOJ                             Government of Jamaica
ICB                             International Competitive Bidding
IDB                             Inter-American Development Bank
JSIF                            Jamaica Social Investment Fund
MIS                             Management Information System
MOE                              Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture
MOH                             Ministry of Health
MOU                             Memorandum of Understanding
NCB                             National Competitive Bidding
NGO                             Non-governmental Organization
NPEP                            National Poverty Eradication Program
PPMU                            Project Preparation Management Unit
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 30



JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION                                                               1
2. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Context                                                         1
B. Poverty in Jamaica                                                       2
C. Social Context                                                           4
D. Institutional Setting                                                    5
E. Social Expenditure and Financing                                         8
3. GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR
BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy                                  9
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement                                          10
C. Lessons from Experience                                                 11
4. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project                                                   13
B. Institutional and Operational Framework of the Social Investment Fund   14
C. Project Objectives                                                      14
D. Project Description                                                     15
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements                                             17
B. SIF Organizational Structure and Functions                              17
C. Subproject Cycle                                                        19
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                                               24
E. Reporting and Supervision                                               25
F. Environmental Impact                                                    26



ii
6. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs and Financing Plan                                                 27
B. Procurement                                                                      29
C. Disbursements                                                                    32
D. Accounts and Auditing                                                            33
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits                                                                         34
B. Sustainability                                                                   35
C. Risks                                                                            36
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                              37
ANNEXES
Annex A:    Outline of Operational Manual
Annex B:    Eligibility Principles
Annex C:    Subproject Menu
Annex D:    Technical Assistance and Training
Annex E:    Draft Memorandum of Understanding
Annex F:    Organizational Structure and Functions of the JSIF
Annex G:    Subproject Cycle
Annex H:    JSIF Performance Indicators
Annex I:     Evaluation and Supervision Plan
Annex J:     Detailed Project Costs
Annex K:    Procurement and Disbursement Methods
Annex L:    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements and Disbursement Allocations
Annex M:    Terms of Reference for External Financial and Management Audits
Annex N:    Documents in Project Files
This report is based on an appraisal of the project conducted in Jamaica from April 9 - May 10, 1996 by
Sarah Adam (Task Manager) and Van Pulley (Resident Representative) with the assistance of Patricia
Shako-Daly (Program Officer, LA3JM) and Robin Hughes (Engineer, LA3JM). Important contributions
to project preparation were made by Scarlette Gillings, Morin Seymour, Eltha Brown, Stephen
Rodrigues, Yvonne McLean and Howard Malcolm of the Project Preparation Management Unit. Other
collaborators included: Margaret Grosh (PRDPH), Caroline Moser and Jeremy Holland (TWURD),
Janet Cupidon-Quallo (LA3JM) and peer reviewers Soniya Carvalho (PSP) and Julie Van Domelen
(LAIHR). Marie Christine Theodore (Project Assistant, LASHC) provided assistance with report
production. The Department Director is Paul Isenman, LASHC Country Sector Leader is Julian
Schweitzer and the Project Advisor is Robert Crown.



iii
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Basic Social and Economic Indicators
Data                Year
GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
Total Area (thousands of square kilometers)                              10.99                1994
Total Population (millions)                                               2.5                1994
Urban Population as percentage of total population                        54                  1992
Population in Capital City
as a percentage of Urban                                              52                  1990
as a percentage of Total                                              27                  1990
GNP per Capita (US$)                                                     1420                 1994
Average annual rate of inflation (percentage) 1985-1994                  27.8
POPULATION DATA
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 population)                                  23.7                1994
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 population)                                   5.4                1994
Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)                                   2.9                1994
Average population rate of growth 1980-1992                                1
Age structure of population (percentage)
under 15                                                              31.5                1994
15 to 59                                                             58.3                 1994
HEALTH DATA
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                          74                  1992
Males                                                                 71                  1992
Females                                                               76                  1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)                            23.8                1994
Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 live births)                              115                 1988
Under 5 Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)
Female                                                                 15                 1992
Male                                                                   19                 1992
Population per physician                                                 2117                1993
Population per nurse                                                     490                 1989
Acute hospital beds per 1,000                                            1.52                 1993
Babies with low birth weight (percentage)                                 11                 1990
Births attended by health staff                                           88                 1993
Access to safe water (percentage of population)                          71.9                1993
Urban                                                                 95                  1993
Rural                                                                 46                  1993
Health expenditure as a percentage of total govt expenditure               5                 1994
EDUCATION DATA
Total adult literacy rate                                                 82                 1994
Primary school enrollment (gross percentage of age group)                 106                1991
of which Female (percentage)                                          119                 1991
Primary pupil/teacher ratio                                               36                  1994
Secondary school enrollment (gross percentage of age group)               62                 1991
of which Female                                                       66                  1991
Total tertiary education enrollment                                       9.5                1994
Education expenditure as a percentage of total govt expenditure           8.5                1995
Sources: Social Indicators of Development 1995, World Bank 1995; World Development Report 1993, World Bank 1993;
Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank 1994; Economic and Social Survey of Jamaica 1994, Planning Institute of
Jamaica, 1994; and Statistical Institute of Jamaica.






iv
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Government of Jamaica
Implementing Agency:    Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF)
Beneficiaries:           Low-income urban and rural communities
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  US$20 million
Terms:                   Single currency loan denominated in US dollars, repayable over 17
years including a five-year grace period, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See para. 6.3
Net Present Value:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   15615 JM
Map:                     IBRD No. 20846






JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Despite several years of economic stabilization policies, Jamaica continues to face
a challenging economic and social environment characterized by low growth, high
inflation and unacceptable levels of poverty. Along with its continuing priority on
improving macroeconomic performance, Government has placed social development and
poverty reduction at the center of its medium-term framework. The Prime Minister has
consolidated responsibility for the Social Agenda in his office and Cabinet recently
approved a National Poverty Eradication Policy and Program. The new policy departs
from Government's earlier approach by emphasizing community-based interventions
undertaken in partnership with non-governmental (NGOs) and community-based
organizations (CBOs), the private sector and communities themselves.
1.2   Recognizing the limited capacity of existing government institutions to catalyze
small-scale projects at the community level, Cabinet in December 1995 approved the
establishment of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund as a key component of
Government's National Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP). The Jamaica Social
Investment Fund (JSIF) is designed as a demand-driven organization to mobilize and
channel additional resources to low-income communities. Drawing on the lessons of
social investment funds elsewhere, the JSIF will finance small-scale social and economic
infrastructure, social services and organizational strengthening subprojects sponsored by
a range of institutions, including central and local government agencies, NGOs/CBOs,
community groups and private sector entities. The proposed project would support the
establishment and operations of the JSIF with a World Bank loan of US$20 million, as
part of the JSIF's US$50 million total four-year program. In addition to financial
support, the Bank's role is critical in bringing international experience to the design and
operation of the JSIF, in leveraging additional funds from other multilateral and bilateral
donor agencies, and in building linkages among Government, NGOs, community groups
and the private sector.
2. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Context
2.1   Jamaica is the largest English-speaking Caribbean country with a population of
2.5 million. The economy is highly sensitive to international price and demand changes,
primarily due to the nature of its productive base and its dependence upon imported oil
for commercial energy consumption. Jamaica's principal economic activities are tourism,



2
manufacturing, bauxite/alumina mining and, in employment terms, agriculture and the
informal trading sector. Like other Caribbean countries, its ecosystems are fragile and
vulnerable to natural disasters.
2.2   In the decade following independence in 1962, Jamaica's GDP growth rate
averaged about five percent per annum. From 1973 through the mid- 1980s, however,
Jamaica's economy experienced sustained contraction due to the increase in oil prices,
unfavorable terms of trade and domestic policies which resulted in large fiscal deficits,
overvaluation of the Jamaican dollar, excessive borrowing and high inflation. Disparities
in income widened. The overall result was an erosion of private sector confidence, a
reduction in investment and an outflow of capital and human resources.
2.3   In an effort to stem the decline, Government in the latter half of the 1980s
implemented stabilization measures and adopted market-oriented policies which resulted
in GDP growth averaging 3.9 percent per annum between 1986 and 1991. During this
period, however, there was also a reduction in Government expenditure on social
services, the removal or reduction of subsidies on many goods and services and a
significant deterioration in Government's institutional capacity to deliver essential
services. Declining living standards affected the poor the most.
2.4   The current government, elected in 1989 and re-elected in 1993, accelerated
reforms including privatization, trade and exchange rate liberalization and enhanced fiscal
management aimed at promoting private sector, export-led growth. As of June 1995,
Jamaica had achieved most of its policy targets: the budget showed a surplus, central
bank losses had decreased, inflation and lending interest rates had declined and net
international reserves equaled about four months of import cover. GDP growth, however,
remained low (0.8% in 1994 and 0.5% in 1995) and insufficient to raise the living
standards of the population.
2.5   Jamaica currently faces a resurgence of high inflation (25.6% in CY 1995),
exchange rate pressure, widening external imbalances, high interest rates and a fragile
financial sector. Real public and private sector wages are rising faster than productivity
gains fueling a rise in imports, particularly of consumer goods. Private sector confidence
is low. An estimated 28 percent of the population remains below the poverty line and the
social fabric of the country is under stress.
B. Poverty in Jamaica
2.6   Poverty in Jamaica is not a new phenomenon and income distribution has
historically been highly skewed. Per capita income is now lower than at the beginning of
the 1970s. In 1993, the poorest fifth of the population had access to only five percent of
national consumption expenditure while the wealthiest quintile consumed almost ten
times as much (49%). Trends in poverty mirror the economic phases detailed above.



3
From 1962 to the early 1970s, poverty declined because aggregate income was growing
strongly as the bauxite and tourism sectors boomed. Between the early 1 970s and mid-
1980s, a decline in aggregate income negated the positive impacts of social safety nets
and structural adjustment on the poor. According to the Survey of Living Conditions
conducted annually by Government with Bank support, poverty has increased since 1988,
becoming particularly acute in 1991 following the rapid devaluation of the Jamaican
dollar.
2.7   As of 1993, using a consumption-based per capita poverty line, 28 percent of the
population lives in poverty. Sixty percent of the poor live in rural areas with the
remaining distributed evenly between the Kingston Metropolitan Area and other towns.
The depth and severity of poverty are also greater in the rural areas where poverty is
characterized by an under-productive small farm sector, low wage employment or lack of
employment opportunities, low levels of education and inadequate physical and social
infrastructure.
2.8   The urban poor, though fewer in number, are arguably more vulnerable to changes
in the economic environment as they are more fully integrated into the monetized
economy and usually have fewer resources upon which to draw. Well-being is linked
closely with ownership of assets including labor, human capital, land and housing,
household relations and social capital. High levels of violence in urban areas erode these
assets, resulting in lack of work and employment opportunities, disruptions in the
delivery of social services, disincentives to invest in housing and the disintegration of
family and social structures, and thus heighten vulnerability. '
2.9   At a national level, a disproportionate percentage of the poor are youth under the
age of 25 and 13 percent are elderly. Women comprise 51 percent of those living below
the poverty line and poverty is only slightly more prevalent among female-headed
households. In the Kingston Metropolitan Area, however, where there are more female
headed-households (65%) than in other towns (47%) or rural areas (45%), the prevalence
of poverty is significantly higher for female headed-households (21 %) than for male
( 11%) headed-households.
2.10  The unemployment rate of the poor in 1995 was 15 percent: 70 percent of whom
were below the age of 25 and 65 percent of whom were women. Poverty is largely a
phenomena of the working poor as demand for their labor is not strong enough to push up
real earnings and they lack skills and access to higher-paying jobs. The majority of poor
are farmers, agricultural laborers, domestic servants, street vendors and craftspersons.
There is a clear association between poverty and years of education: nearly 70 percent of
World Bank, 1995. A Participatory Study of Urban Poverty and Violence in Jamaica, TWURD,
December 1995.



4
the employed poor reported no secondary education compared with 45 percent of the
employed non-poor.2
C. Social Context
2.11  In general, Jamaica's living standard indices are relatively favorable compared
with other middle-income countries in the region. The educational system's coverage is
extensive with net enrollment rates of 84 percent for pre-primary, 98 percent for primary,
85 percent for lower secondary and 45 percent for upper secondary. Life expectancy is
over 70 years, infant mortality is 24 per 1,000 live births, severe malnutrition is rare and
child immunization almost universal. No significant gender bias exists in the provision
of social services.
2.12  These social indicators, however, mask underlying problems in both the education
and health sectors. The educational system is characterized by deteriorating quality and
inequity in the provision of resources and education opportunities particularly across
socio-economic groups. Of the 15-19 age group, 13.5 percent are illiterate, rising to 17.3
percent for 20-24 year olds. The latest available data on primary school leavers (1988)
reveals that over 30 percent were functionally illiterate. Attendance and functional
literacy vary by gender, school type and location with males, pupils from schools serving
low-income families and rural areas recording the lowest attendance and literacy rates.
2.13   Fiscal stringency needed for macroeconomic stabilization has taken its toll on the
social sectors over the past ten years. Schools are under-resourced and low educational
quality is in part due to a shortage of educational inputs and inadequate infrastructure.
Educational materials are severely limited and reduced levels of maintenance
expenditures have rendered the physical environments of many schools not conducive to
learning. Furthermore, available resources are not distributed equitably. Schools serving
students from low-income families areas are relatively poorly equipped, are in worse
physical condition and suffer from overcrowding.
2.14  In the health sector, the disease profile is increasingly "life-style"-related
resembling that of higher-income, developed countries. Deaths are due less frequently to
infectious and vector-borne diseases than to chronic and degenerative diseases which are
inherently more expensive to treat. Injuries, including homicides, are the second leading
cause of healthy life years lost and rank as the main cause of death among males aged
15-44. Concern remains, however, about high and preventable perinatal mortality rates.
2.15  As in education, prolonged insufficient public funding for health care has caused a
serious deterioration in the quality of care in public health facilities. One result has been
a significant shift to private providers for outpatient care, even among poorer groups.
2 World Bank, 1994. Jamaica A Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction: Country Economic
Memorandum, LA3C2, April 12, 1994.



5
Compared to private facilities, public facilities are in a poor state of repair and lack
equipment and basic supplies. The relationship between health and poverty is just as
clear as that between poverty and education. The poor are only half as likely to seek
medical care as the non-poor and spend approximately one-third as much treating their
illnesses. Furthermore, the poor remain sick for longer periods and are more restricted in
carrying out their daily activities than the non-poor.
2.16  Water and Sanitation statistics show a greater association of the rural areas with
inferior living conditions. In 1991, 24 percent of the population lacked access to safe
drinking water while in the rural areas the proportion was 40 percent. Access to
sanitation facilities is relatively high, but in rural areas three times as many people lack
good sanitation facilities than in the urban areas. There are also considerable deficiencies
in the water and sanitation facilities within schools, health centers and other public
infrastructure, thereby increasing overall health risks. The road and street network is
badly deteriorated due to lack of maintenance expenditure. In some areas, roads are
completely cut-off, leaving communities isolated and at times causing social
disturbances. Drainage is inadequate and severe flooding not uncommon.
2.17 The high levels of crime, predominant in poor urban neighborhoods, have
detrimental impacts on all of these sectors. Violence limits access to school, results in
high costs to the health care system and impedes the delivery of water and sanitation.
D. Institutional Setting
2.18 Social services and infrastructure in Jamaica are provided by central government
ministries and agencies, local government (Parish Councils), non-governmental and
community-based organizations and the private sector. The plethora of actors and
programs presents Government with a major coordination challenge.
2.19 Public Sector. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is the principal provider of
formal primary and secondary education, with only about five percent of students
enrolled in private schools. In contrast, 80 percent of children enrolled at the pre-primary
level attend community-based Basic Schools which raise most of their revenue through
fees and donations. Technical/vocational training is provided through the secondary
school system, skills-training programs offered by the Human Employment and Resource
Training/National Training Agency and public and private employers, and training
institutions that offer apprenticeships. Most special education is provided in schools
owned and operated by NGOs which receive limited government subventions. Adult
education is offered through a government-funded company and over 75 NGOs.
3World Bank, 1994. Jamaica Health Sector Review: Present Status and Future Options, LA3HR,
December 14, 1994.



6
2.20 The public health system is highly centralized. The Ministry of Health (MOH)
provides almost all of the inpatient care through a network of 344 health centers and 24
hospitals, undertakes health education and environmental health activities, and is
responsible for family planning promotion. In recent years, the private sector's role has
increased significantly such that it now provides about 75 percent of outpatient services.
The NGO community plays an active role in health promotion. In nutrition, the MOH
implements the Supplementary Feeding Program targeted to malnourished children under
five, a Food Stamp Program is administered through the Ministry of Labour, Social
Security and Sport and the MOE provides lunch to approximately 280,000 students under
the School Feeding Program.
2.21  In social welfare, the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Sport administers
an array of public assistance programs aimed primarily at the aged, disabled and destitute,
in part through grants to twelve private voluntary organizations. Additional poverty
reduction programs are being implemented by the Office of the Prime Minister and the
Social Development Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Rural Agricultural
Development Agency, and the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport and the National
Water Commission as well as NGOs and the private sector. The new National Poverty
Eradication Program seeks to streamline and coordinate these varied and at times
duplicative initiatives.
2.22  At the local level, Parish Councils will play an increasingly important role in the
provision of basic infrastructure and services such as water supply, road maintenance and
solid waste management. Responsibilities between the parishes and central ministries are
being delineated under Government's Local Government Reform Program. Water and
sanitation responsibilities will be shared among the parishes, the Ministry of Local
Government and Works and the National Water Commission. Responsibility for roads
will be split between the Ministry of Local Government and Works and the parishes. The
number of entities currently involved combined with inadequate financial resources have
resulted in slowed expansion of basic infrastructure and significant deterioration of
existing investments.
2.23  Implementation Capacity. The public sector accounts for eight percent of jobs
in Jamaica and expenditure on personnel is Govermnent's largest single recurrent cost
item (54% of non-interest expenditures in 1994/95). Despite its numerous agencies and
employees, the general level of efficiency and effectiveness of public entities is low and
the quality of service to the public has declined over the years.
2.24  The major public institutions implementing poverty programs face institutional
constraints common to the entire public sector. These constraints include: limited
capacity of the core of ministries to provide strategic leadership, formulate effective
policies and monitor operations of line entities; over-centralized authority in financial and
personnel management decisions; serious human resource deficiencies due to low wages,
insufficient training and lack of effective performance evaluation systems; and
cumbersome budgetary and procurement regulations. Government recognizes its weak



7
administrative capacity in implementing policies and programs and has committed itself
to reforming central and local government in order to boost efficiency. These reforms,
however, will take several years to yield results and, in the meantime, the above
constraints will continue to pose serious impediments to the reduction of poverty. Failure
to tackle poverty effectively in turn poses risks to the sustainability of Govermment's
macroeconomic reform program.
2.25  Non-governmental Organizations. There are a large number and variety of
social institutions operating at the community level in Jamaica, ranging from relatively
loosely-organized associations such as sports clubs and Neighborhood Watch committees
to more formal institutions such as schools, churches and NGOs. These institutions are
important for social cohesion as well as economic development.
2.26  Jamaica has a long history of voluntary service, with churches and other
philanthropic institutions playing an increasingly important role in the delivery of social
services after the end of slavery. The 1930s and 1940s saw the establishment of a new
type of organization focusing on the development of community cohesion, community
building and self-reliance. The NGO community continued to flourish after
independence in 1962 and expanded its programs in response the sharp decline of
Government social expenditures in the 1970s and 1980s. The shift from a welfare-based
to a more developmental approach has become more pronounced in the 1990s.
2.27 There are approximately 150 non-governmental organizations promoting social
development in Jamaica. Rough estimates indicate that their total annual budget exceeds
J$200 million (US$5 million). NGO programs are concentrated in the area of human
services, including youth and human development, formal and non-formal education,
welfare services, disaster relief and rehabilitation and health and counseling. NGOs are
also involved in public education and advocacy, community development, environmental
protection, services for the disabled, employment creation, housing and sanitation,
agriculture and legal assistance. Most NGOs are headquartered in the Kingston
Metropolitan Area with programs concentrated in urban areas. Rural areas are served
predominantly by community-based organizations which are comprised of the
beneficiaries themselves and operate in a specific geographic area. Estimates of the
numbers of CBOs range from 1,200 to 1,500 with almost 70 percent in rural Jamaica.
There are also a vast number of citizens organizations, benevolent societies,
neighborhood associations, service clubs and the like active across the island.
2.28 Among the large numbers of social institutions at the community level, a
distinction can be made between those that are hierarchical versus horizontal in structure.
Hierarchical institutions, such as churches and social welfare systems, tend towards top -
down delivery of services. Institutions based on horizontal relationships, such as sports



8
clubs, homework clubs and parenting groups, facilitate cooperation and collaboration and
as such build social capital.
2.29 The implementation capacity of non-governmental and community-based
organizations varies significantly. In general, strengths include: close relationship with
communities and involvement of beneficiaries in program implementation; willingness to
innovate in social service provision; flexibility in responding to observed and expressed
needs of target populations; commitment to serving as a channel of communication
between the disadvantaged and decision-makers; and an openness to collaborating with
other sectors, including government, private sector and donor/lender community.
Weaknesses include: limited coverage, weak management structures and financial bases,
inadequate record-keeping and information management, lack of collaboration and
coordination within the sector and between other sectors and limited influence on policy.
2.30  Deliberate attempts have been made to strengthen the working relationship
between the public and non-governmental sectors. At the urging of the NGO community,
Government established an NGO Desk at the Planning Institute of Jamaica to structure
the collaboration between the two sectors. Government now involves NGOs in the
planning and implementation of major policies and programs, most recently in the
preparation of the National Poverty Eradication Program. NGOs have also sought the
input of Government in their own programs and have offered their services to
Government through contractual and other arrangements.
2.31  Private Sector. The local manufacturing and contracting industries in Jamaica
contribute approximately 18 and 9 percent of GDP respectively. There are a limited
number of firms considered efficient at undertaking large-scale civil works projects.
Small civil works contracting firms are numerous, coverage is island-wide and technical
capacity is adequate. Contractors have been exposed to competitive bidding procedures.
E. Social Expenditure and Financing
2.32  Although Government has recently reduced its all embracing role as social
provider and has shifted a part of the responsibility to individuals and the private and
voluntary sectors, it continues to provide a wide range of both education and health
services. The reduction in Government resources has resulted in declining quality
throughout the sectors, with the poor having least access to higher quality services.
2.33  The resources for public expenditures in the social sectors are largely channeled
through the central government budget. During the 1 990s, real public expenditures on
education and health have fallen as a share of the total government budget. While the
Ministry of Education commands the largest share of total government non-debt
4World Bank, 1995. A Participatory Study of Urban Poverty and Violence in Jamaica, TWURD,
December 1995.



9
expenditures, its share declined from 13 percent in 1989/90 to 8.5 percent in 1995/96. In
real terms, Government expenditures on education in 1994/95 barely exceeded 1982/83
expenditures. Salaries and allowances account for 95 percent of the Ministry's recurrent
expenditures resulting in the severe underfunding of non-wage recurrent and capital
expenditures. Educational materials are inadequate, equipment is often non-functional
and physical facilities are in poor condition. In 1995/96, 33 percent of Government's
recurrent education expenditures was allocated to primary education, 29 percent to
secondary and 28 percent to tertiary.
2.34  The Ministry of Health's share of public expenditure hovers around six percent,
down from a high of eight percent in 1982/83. Between 1982/83 and 1989/90 real
resources allocated to the health sector declined by roughly one-third. In 1993/94,
salaries and allowances accounted for 79 percent of the recurrent budget. Overall, the
share of health expenditures on other goods and services has declined from 28 percent in
1991/92 to 17 percent in 1993/94. Secondary and tertiary care has received 60 to 70
percent of the Ministry of Health's recurrent budget over the last decade while primary
care has accounted for 20 percent. The recurrent budget for primary care has remained
constant in real terms despite the expansion of primary care infrastructure in the late
1970s and early 1980s. Maintenance of both physical infrastructure and equipment
(medical and non-medical) has been underfunded for years.
2.35  Total spending on roads has averaged only about one percent of GDP over the
past three years. The chronic underfunding of rehabilitation and routine maintenance has
resulted in a badly deteriorated road network.5
3. GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND RATIONALE
FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy
3.1   Government acknowledges the precarious economic situation and recognizes that
it must continue short-term macroeconomic policies while simultaneously attending to
significant structural problems. The Government has elevated its commitment toward
social development and consolidated responsibility for the Social Agenda in the Office of
the Prime Minister. The Social Agenda is a broad set of social development and welfare
programs with the long-term objectives of eradicating poverty, developing human
resources, promoting social rehabilitation and fostering community development. As a
major component of the Social Agenda, Cabinet recently approved the National Policy
Towards Poverty Eradication and the National Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP)
which seek to mobilize all available resources in a streamlined and coordinated action
designed to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty.
5World Bank, 1995. Jamaica Public Expenditure Review, LA3C2, April 30, 1996.



10
3.2   Government's poverty policy is predicated on the assumption that a successful
poverty eradication program must incorporate economic growth while recognizing that
social development is integral to and essential for such growth. The NPEP has four
major sub-programs: (i) community-based activities to create and sustain development
activities at the local level; (ii) human resources and social development to provide
equitable access of the poor to quality education and health services; (iii) protection of
environmental and natural resources; and (iv) building of the enabling environment to
strengthen and promote sound economic policies to achieve growth and to establish an
institutional framework aimed at more efficient management, coordination and coherency
in program implementation. The poverty program is guided by four principles:
integration to optimize resources and amplify impact; partnership to ensure that
Government works closely with the private sector, NGOs and CBOs, communities and
donor/lender agencies; community-based participation involving communities in
identifying their needs, designing, implementing and evaluating projects; and targeting
to reach the most deprived communities island-wide. As an important new mechanism to
achieve its poverty reduction goals, Government decided to establish the Jamaica Social
Investment Fund to mobilize and channel additional resources to priority projects in
targeted communities using an approach consistent with all of these principles.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica focuses on Government's
key development challenges: (a) macroeconomic stability, increased investment and
growth, (b) poverty reduction, (c) human resource development and (d) public sector
modernization.
3.4   Social Sector Strategy. The primary operational objective of the Bank's
involvement in the social sectors is to increase the human capital of Jamaica's citizens
and improve the living standards and income-earning potential of the poorest. The
Bank's current focus is on strengthening the existing social sector portfolio which
includes the Social Sector Development and Reform of Secondary Education Projects and
designing two new projects. The Student Loan Project seeks to redirect resources from
tertiary education to lower levels where social returns are higher. The proposed JSIF is
designed to assist Government in reducing poverty by reaching the vulnerable groups
underserved by existing traditional programs. The Urban Poverty and Violence Study
has been instrumental in designing the menu of subprojects eligible for JSIF funding and
its operating procedures, including eligibility of subproject sponsors, the promotions and
project identification strategy, social appraisal criteria and contracting and disbursement
arrangements. The Bank's involvement in the JSIF is particularly important to:
(i) capitalize on its considerable experience with social investment funds around the
world; (ii) mobilize additional external financing; and (iii) help build linkages among
government agencies, NGOs, community groups and the private sector.



I1
3.5    Relationship to other Bank-financed Projects. The Bank is currently preparing
three projects which will strengthen and modernize central and local governments and
assist in rebalancing the roles of the public and private sectors. The Public Sector
Modernization Project will support Government's efforts to: (i) continue the
rationalization of the public sector through privatization; (ii) improve the capability of
ministries in policy formulation, coordination and management of policy implementation,
and (iii) improve the efficiency of key government departments by converting them into
"Executive Agencies" enjoying greater managerial and financial autonomy. '[he project
will also strengthen GOJ's procurement policies and practices. The Parish
Infrastructure Project will extend local government reforms by strengthening the
capacity of parish governments to develop and maintain minor water supply, roads and
solid waste services. The Water and Sewerage Project will rehabilitate and
commercialize the water company alongside Government plans to introduce a private
sector operator. The proposed JSIF Project complements these longer-term institutional
reforms and larger, technically more complicated investments by financing small-scale,
community-level social and economic infrastructure and social services interventions in
targeted areas using an efficient new delivery mechanism. The structure of the JSIF
shares many of the characteristics of the Executive Agencies proposed under the Public
Sector Modernization Project, including strong management, greater autonomy in
financial and personnel management in exchange for strict accountability for
predetermined outputs, streamlined operational procedures, and a modem Management
Information System to enhance the quality and speed of decision-making and evaluation.
Under the Parish Infrastructure Project, Parish Councils would be assisted in preparing,
with communities, subproject proposals to be submitted to the JSIF for financing. The
Agricultural Support Services Project being prepared will channel additional resources
to combat rural poverty by assisting small farmers through improved research and
extension.
C. Lessons from Experience
3.6    The design of the proposed project takes into account lessons leamed from the
Bank's experience with other investment projects in Jamaica, relevant programs and
institutions currently operating in the country, and the design and implementation of
6
social fund projects elsewhere .
6References include the Staff Appraisal Reports for social fund projects in Armenia, Cambodia, Ecuador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Zambia as well as the following documents: Social Funds:
Guidelines for Design and Implementation, Human Resources Development and Operations Policy
Working Paper 34, 1994; Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds: The Latin American
Experience, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 261, 1994; Social Funds: Strengths, Weaknesses
and Conditions for Success, ESP Discussion Paper Series, 1995; and Social Action Programs and
Social Funds: A Review of Design and Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa, World Bank
Discussion Paper No. 274, 1995.



12
3.7   Bank Projects in Jamaica. Implementation of Bank-financed investment
projects executed by central government ministries has generally been weak. Sluggish
implementation results in cost overruns and delays benefits reaching target groups. The
record has been particularly weak in civil works carried out by the Ministries of Health,
Education and Local Government and Works. A recent Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) with Government highlighted implementation constraints including:
weak technical capacity of personnel within ministries, insufficient involvement of
Government counterparts in project design, lack of counterpart funds due to fiscal
adjustment, and cumbersome budgetary and procurement regulations. The procurement
of goods and services is not conducted in an effective, cost-efficient or transparent
manner. For example, contracts valued over J$2.5 million (US$62,500) require approval
from the Government Contracts' Award Committee, the Ministry of Finance and Cabinet.
Serious deficiencies also exist in contract management relating mostly to the supervision
of contractors and in the monitoring and expediting of deliveries. The Public Sector
Modernization Project seeks to rationalize and strengthen Government procurement
procedures. Additional lessons highlight the importance of local ownership of reforms,
beneficiary participation in project design and providing sufficient technical assistance
and training. The design of the JSIF as detailed in Chapter 4 not only takes these into
account, but is in part a response to these impediments.
3.8   Government Poverty Reduction Projects. Two recent reviews of Government's
poverty alleviation program and the four main institutions (three Government and one
NGO) which fund social and environmental projects reveal similar constraints and
lessons. Most of the poverty projects reported slow implementation due to low cash
flow, inadequate staffing and slow decision-making. Social services and employment-
generation projects were most successful when community cooperation and private
voluntary organizations were included in program implementation.7 The institutional
review highlighted four main issues: (i) lack of formalized procedures for funding or
implementing projects; (ii) inadequate administration and supervision of projects due to
limited financial and weak human resources; (iii) incomplete and imprecise project
proposals and cost estimates, complicated by the consistent overestimation of costs
particularly when resources were considered "free"; and (iv) lack of institutional and
financial autonomy which resulted in delayed and insufficient disbursements.
3.9   Social Investment Funds. The lessons learned from the Bank's experience in
financing over 30 social fund-type operations have influenced the design and operations
of the proposed project. During preparation, staff of the Project Preparation Management
Unit and the Chairman of the JSIF Advisory Committee visited two Central American
social investment funds. They also received significant technical assistance from social
fund managers and NGO beneficiaries who visited Jamaica and advice from World Bank
7 Planning Institute of Jamaica, 1995, A Preliminary Evaluation of Programs/Projects Aimed at
Alleviating the Impact on the Poor of Structural Adjustment, Liberalization and
Divestment/Privatization.



13
and Inter-American Development Bank staff and consultants experienced in the design
and implementation of social fund projects.
3.10  At the conceptual level, three main lessons have emerged. First, a social
investment fund should be considered as only one element of a much broader poverty
reduction strategy and not as a panacea for eradicating poverty. Second, although the
primary objective of a social fund needs to be clearly articulated, social funds can serve a
number of purposes simultaneously and can generate important ancillary benefits. For
example, immediate social assistance and temporary employment objectives are not
necessarily inconsistent with investments with a longer-term impact on poverty reduction.
Third, the lesson from experience as to whether social funds should be purely temporary,
short-term mechanisms is not yet conclusive. In general, flexibility and regard for the
country context are called for in determining the future direction of a social fund.
3.11  The main lessons learned in the design and operations of social funds which have
influenced the preparation and design of the proposed project include the importance of:
(a) institutional autonomy and freedom from political interference; (b) transparency and
accountability, which are furthered by a comprehensive operational manual, effective
management information system, frequent and standardized reporting, contracting of
independent evaluations and systematic feedback from project beneficiaries; (c) attracting
high-caliber, motivated staff by running a private sector-like operation and paying
competitive wages; (d) expedited procurement and disbursement procedures;
(e) mechanisms for sector coordination with line ministries to ensure complementary
objectives that are flexible enough not to compromise the independence and efficiency of
the social fund; (f) involvement of NGOs and local governments in the project cycle;
(g) using some monitorable, albeit simple, forms of targeting and promotional activities
to reach the poorest regions and targeted beneficiaries; (h) technically simple subproject
designs; (i) strong local participation during all phases of the subproject cycle to help
ensure sustainability; and (j) strong supervision mechanisms at both the managerial and
subproject levels.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
4.1   The preparation of the proposed project is an outcome of Government's
commitment to accelerate poverty reduction efforts. Discussions with the Bank were
initiated in September 1994 regarding the establishment of an efficient mechanism to
channel additional funding to small-scale, community-based projects in targeted areas. A
Japan Grant to finance project preparation was signed in March 1995, followed one week
later by the appointment of a Project Coordinator. Government is executing the Japan
Grant for the first time in Jamaica and preparation has been based in the Planning



14
Institute of Jamaica to ensure maximum coordination with Government's poverty
reduction program and other donor/lender projects. After advertising through a private
sector selection services firm, a Government-appointed Advisory Committee approved
the hiring of five long-term consultants in September 1995 to prepare the project under
the assumption that, if they performed well, they would form the core staff of the JSIF
once established. A sixth consultant was hired in January 1996. The objective was to
recruit staff as early as possible in the project design phase to ensure maximum
"ownership", realism in design, and continuity between design and implementation.
B. Institutional and Operational Framework of the Social Investment Fund
4.2   Taking into account lessons from experience with other social funds and after a
review of institutional options in the Jamaican context, Cabinet in December 1995
approved the establishment of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund as a temporary,
autonomous public company incorporated under the Companies Act. The JSIF was
incorporated in February 1996. Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
company are in the project files.
4.3   As detailed in the Memorandum of Association, the objectives of the company
are: to mobilize and manage a pool of funds to be used in a program of poverty
alleviation consistent with the Government of Jamaica's national poverty reduction
strategy; to foster investment at the community level by providing funding for projects
aimed at stimulating integrated and sustainable development of poor communities; to
increase national institutional capacity to design, implement and manage small-scale,
community-based poverty alleviation projects; and to stimulate and encourage the
involvement of public and private organizations in the development of poor communities.
4.4   The Jamaica Social Investment Fund would act as a project financing agency:
promoting, appraising, financing and supervising projects in accordance with its
Operational Manual (see Annex A for Table of Contents). Subprojects would be
sponsored by eligible institutions, including central government ministries and agencies,
local governments, NGOs/CBOs, community groups and the private sector. Subproject
sponsors need not be legally registered entities. Subprojects would be executed by a
contractor (private sector firm or NGO/CBO) which would perform the works, provide
the equipment or carry out services financed under the subproject.
C. Project Objectives
4.5   The primary goal of the proposed project is to contribute to the reduction of
poverty and help create an environment for sustainable national development. More
specifically, the JSIF is designed to assist Government in responding to the needs of the
most vulnerable groups currently underserved by existing programs and institutional



15
mechanisms by: (a) establishing an efficient, demand-driven and complementary
mechanism to deliver basic services and infrastructure to the poor; (b) mobilizing and
channeling additional resources to the areas of basic social and economic infrastructure
and social services; and (c) increasing national institutional capacity to identify, design,
implement, manage and sustain small-scale community-based projects.
D. Project Description
4.6   The project would consist of two components. The first component would
finance subprojects approved by the JSIF in the areas of social infrastructure, economic
infrastructure, social services and organizational strengthening as detailed below.
The second component would fund institutional support for the JSIF's establishment and
operations, including (i) salaries, vehicles, equipment and operating expenses; and
(ii) technical assistance and training to improve the JSIF's operational capacity and
procedures.
4.7    Component I: JSIF Subprojects (US$40.7 million). The JSIF would provide
grant financing for small-scale community-based subprojects designed to increase human
and social capital in the following categories: social infrastructure, economic
infrastructure, social services and organizational strengthening. All subprojects must
benefit poor communities, incorporate beneficiary participation at all stages of design and
implementation, include a contribution from the beneficiary group/subproject sponsor, be
consistent with national sectoral policies and cost a maximum of US$350,000 (see Annex
B for Eligibility Principles). To be eligible for financing, subprojects must be included
on the menu of eligible subprojects (see Annex C for Subproject Menu). Financing of
eligible subprojects would then be subject to technical appraisal by JSIF staff based on a
set of criteria developed for each type of subproject and detailed in the Operational
Manual (see para. 5.13).
4.8   Social infrastructure (56% of the total number of subprojects), defined as
infrastructure related to the provision of social services, would include the rehabilitation,
expansion and construction and the equipping of schools, health centers, day care centers,
homes for children, the elderly and the disabled, community centers, training facilities
and sports facilities; and the construction and rehabilitation of public sanitary
conveniences (latrines, community showers), drains and canals, and community-based
water systems.
4.9   Economic infrastructure (11%), defined as infrastructure delivering economic
benefits, would include the rehabilitation and upgrading of parochial, feeder and urban
access roads and the construction and rehabilitation of community-based agroprocessing
facilities.



16
4.10  Social services (20%) would include programs offering services in career
guidance and job placement, counseling (including conflict resolution and drug abuse)
and parenting and family life-education; and skills training to the productive sector and
the disabled.
4.11   Organizational strengthening (13%) would include technical assistance and
training to governmental and non-governmental institutions in participatory project
identification and prioritization and to subproject sponsors and executing agencies to
upgrade skills in preparation, implementation and management of small-scale
community-based projects.
4.12  During negotiations, it was agreed that the JSIF would only approve those
subprojects for which there are appraisal criteria satisfactory to the Bank as outlined in
the Operational Manual (para. 8.2(a)). It was further agreed that no change to the
subproject menu, appraisal criteria or the US$350,000 maximum subproject cost limit
would be made without prior Bank approval (para. 8.2(b)).
4.13  Component II: JSIF Institutional Support (US$9.3 million). This component
would include the financing of JSIF staff salaries, vehicles, office equipment and
operating expenses. JSIF's remuneration levels and recruitment procedures would be
sufficient to ensure high caliber staff. Due to the temporary nature of the JSIF and the
non-civil service status of its staff, the JSIF managerial and technical staff are considered
consultants to Government and are treated as such for purposes of the project. In addition
to common categories, operating expenses also includes the development and
implementation of a promotional strategy. JSIF personnel and operating expenditures are
fully incremental and declining financing by the Bank is not applicable. Overhead costs
(administrative and operating expenses) are estimated to be about 15 percent of the total
program over the four-year period. This percentage, although relatively high compared to
some social investment funds, reflects the high costs of personnel, rent and other
operating costs in Jamaica as well as the relatively small size of the JSIF. To help ensure
efficiency, overhead expenditures would be programmed and monitored as one of the
JSIF's institutional performance indicators and assessed during the annual management
audit (para. 6.16).
4.14  This component would also finance technical assistance and training to improve
JSIF's operational capacity and internal procedures in the areas of promotions, refinement
of the poverty map, poverty targeting, participatory needs assessment/project
identification, appraisal of social services and organizational strengthening subprojects,
gender, environmental procedures, impact monitoring and evaluation and management
information systems. A brief description of technical assistance and training activities is
presented in Annex D.
4.15   The proposed project has been scaled according to: (a) the expected operating
capacity of the JSIF; (b) the total amount of resources which the JSIF expects to disburse
over the four-year period; (c) expected demand, as estimated through a needs assessment



17
exercise conducted during preparation; (d) the amount of resources available from
external donor and lender agencies; and (e) the availability of counterpart resources.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
5.1   The proposed project would be implemented over the agreed four-year period.
Given the autonomous status of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund, it was agreed during
negotiations that a separate Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
entered into between the Government of Jamaica and the JSIF (para.8.2(c)). Under this
agreement, the GOJ would make available on a non-reimbursable basis the proceeds of
the Bank loan to the JSIF which would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. As a condition of effectiveness, the Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable
to the Bank, would have been signed and entered into effect between Government and the
JSIF (para. 8.3(a)). A Memorandum of Understanding between the GOJ and the JSIF
provides that: (i) operations of the JSIF would be exempt from the ordinary requirements
of the Government procurement procedures up to a maximum of approximately
US$125,000; (ii) the JSIF would not be bound to pay its employees the salaries and
wages paid to civil servants by Government; and (iii) the JSIF be a signatory to any
special account into which the Bank or other multilateral and bilateral financing and
donor agencies will transfer funds (see Annex E for Memorandum of Understanding).
Prior to negotiations, the Memorandum of Understanding was signed and entered into
effect between Government and the JSIF (para. 8.1 (a)).
5.2   The JSIF would disburse funds on a grant basis for subprojects in the areas of
social infrastructure, economic infrastructure, social services and organizational
strengthening. The JSIF's operating procedures, including criteria and systems for
subproject promotion, appraisal, approval, contracting and monitoring, and the
administrative and financial rules are contained in the Operational Manual. Prior to
negotiations, the JSIF submitted a revised version of its Operational Manual (para.
8.1 (c)), which incorporated changes suggested during appraisal. Finalization of the
Operational Manual, including detailed eligibility and appraisal criteria for all
subproject types, satisfactory to the Bank, and its approval by JSIF's Board of Directors
is a condition of effectiveness (para. 8. 3(b)). During negotiations, agreement was
reached that no changes would be made to the approved manual without the prior
approval of the Bank (para. 8.2(d)).
B.    SIF Organizational Structure and Functions



18
5.3   The Board of Directors of the JSIF is comprised of between seven and nine
members and the Managing Director of the JSIF. If the number of directors is seven, then
at least three would be selected from the private sector, and if there are nine directors then
at least four will be selected from the private sector. In either case, at least two of the
private sector representatives would be selected from NGOs and at least two of the public
sector representatives would be selected from social sector line ministries. Members of
Parliament and elected officials are ineligible for selection as directors. The Board terms
would be staggered with each Director having a three-year tenure and one-third of the
Board retiring each year, though eligible for reelection. The composition and staggering
of the Board of Directors is designed to help ensure transparency in the operations of the
JSIF, sufficient coordination with line ministries and continuity through political cycles.
Initial members of the Board of Directors were appointed by the Minister of Finance
through a consultative process prior to negotiations (para. 8.1 (d)).
5.4   The JSIF Board of Directors would guide and supervise the overall administration
and operations of the Fund and would have specific responsibility for approving its
Operational Manual, the annual budget and workplan, appointing senior management,
and approving subprojects unless otherwise delegated to a sub-committee of the Board or
JSIF management. The Managing Director would be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the JSIF in accordance with its operational policies and procedures.
5.5   The organizational structure, as depicted in Annex F, is based on the experience
of other social investment funds and takes into account Jamaica's institutional context.
The Managing Director would be supported by a Deputy Managing Director and two
departments: Operations and Finance and Administration. The Operations Department
would have four divisions mirroring the subproject cycle: Promotions, Appraisal,
Contracting and Supervision. The Finance and Administration Department would have
two divisions: Accounts and Administration and Human Resources. The Board,
Managing Director and departments would be supported by three units: Internal Audit
and Evaluation, Legal Advisory, and Management Information Systems.
5.6   Given the scale of the proposed operation, it is estimated that at the height of its
operations the JSIF would be staffed by approximately 45-50 managerial, technical and
support staff. An Acting Managing Director as well as the heads of the Operations and
Finance and Administration Departments, Contracting/Supervision Division and Legal
Advisory and MIS Units have already been hired. Depending on demand and need, small
regional offices may be opened in order to improve promotions and supervision of
subprojects. In addition to is own staff, the JSIF would sub-contract some supervision
tasks and technical services. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the JSIF's
management level positions would be staffed satisfactorily to the Bank (para. 8.2(e)).8 As
8 Positions requiring Bank prior review are: Managing Director; Deputy Managing Director; Manager,
Operations Department; Manager, Finance and Administration Department; Head, Internal Audit and
Evaluation Unit; Head, Management Information Systems Unit; Head, Legal Advisory Unit; Head,
Human Resources Division; and Head, Promotions Division.



19
a condition of effectiveness, the JSIF wouldfill specified staff and management positions
(para. 8.3(c)).9
C. Subproject Cycle
5.7    The stages of the JSIF subproject cycle are typical of successful social investment
funds elsewhere and would involve: subproject promotion, identification and
preparation; appraisal and approval; contracting, execution and supervision; and
completion. A schematic diagram of the subproject cycle is presented in Annex G.
Project Promotion, Identification and Preparation
5.8    The Jamaica Social Investment Fund would undertake promotional strategies,
using national media, community meetings and regional workshops, to ensure effective
coverage across the island. The promotions strategy is designed to increase awareness
among potential subproject participants of the types of subprojects supported by the
Fund, the eligibility and selection criteria and the general guidelines and procedures
governing access to Fund resources, including the centrality of community participation
throughout the subproject cycle. The promotions strategy would be developed and
undertaken by the Promotions Division and would involve:
a) the preparation and wide dissemination of informational materials to line ministries,
local governments, NGOs/CBOs and communities and the private sector outlining
eligibility principles (Annex B), the subproject menu and eligibility criteria (Annex
C), subproject application forms, and guidelines to facilitate the elaboration of
subproject ideas into structured proposals;
b) an initial campaign targeted toward organizations with experience and capacity to
stimulate quality applications for subprojects which can be quickly financed to
produce a demonstration effect and build JSIF credibility;
c) a series of workshops in priority regions with limited capacity in order to train local
institutions in the identification and preparation of subproject proposals;
d) site visits of JSIF promotions staff to the poorest and most difficult to access
communities to help identify their needs using participatory techniques. The poverty
map, described below, combined with information gathered from field organizations
and local research would be used to geographically target the promotions strategy to
the poorest communities.
9JSIF management and staff positions to be filled prior to effectiveness are: Managing Director; Manager,
Operations Department; Manager, Finance and Administration Department; Head, Management
Information Systems Unit; Head, Legal Advisory Unit; Head, Human Resources Division; and Head,
Promotions Division.



20
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Bank would review the effectiveness of the
draft promotions strategy six months after effectiveness of the loan (para. 8.2(f)).
5.9   To establish the need for the proposed investment as well as to build community
cohesion and ownership, all subprojects would be identified using participatory
techniques to sharpen the community focus on its needs and priorities. Project
identification would be undertaken in conjunction with or by line ministries,
Government's Social Development Commission, Parish Councils and NGOs/CBOs. The
JSIF would provide technical assistance and training to these organizations in the use of
participatory identification techniques and gradually reduce its direct involvement in the
process. Trained community facilitators would assist in preparation of subproject
proposals.
5.10  Staff of the Promotions Division would undertake the initial screening of
subproject proposals for consistency with the JSIF's eligibility principles and subproject
eligibility criteria, which have been developed to conform with sector policies and norms.
When appropriate, profiles of eligible subprojects would be submitted to the relevant line
ministry for its no-objection to further processing of the subproject. If a ministry's no-
objection is not received within five working days, the subproject would be considered
cleared for appraisal.
5.11  Targeting. One of the principal objectives of the JSIF is to reach regions and
vulnerable groups currently underserved by existing delivery mechanisms. To help
ensure that benefits reach the intended population, the JSIF would use various targeting
mechanisms within stages of the subproject cycle along with a poverty map to identify
and focus activities in priority areas and prevent leakage of benefits to the wealthier
regions. Within the subproject cycle, the types of subprojects eligible for financing by
the JSIF, including primary education and health care facilities, are likely to concentrate
benefits among the poor. As described above, project promotion would target the poorest
regions with limited capacity in order to train local institutions in subproject preparation.
Technical and other appraisal criteria are being designed with a view towards ensuring
the involvement of the targeted population.
5.12  Poverty Map. A poverty map completed in January 1996 by the Social Policy
Analysis Unit of the Planning Institute of Jamaica with JSIF-financed local technical
assistance would serve as the principal instrument for geographical poverty targeting.
The poverty mapping exercise involved three main activities: (i) the identification of
communities across Jamaica; (ii) the selection of indicators, by a technical advisory
committee, to be used to determine the deprivation status of these communities; and (iii)
the development of a methodology to measure the relative deprivation status of these
communities. The 5,074 Census Enumeration Districts were amalgamated to 506
communities. Using the 1991 Population Census which is the only data set providing
complete coverage of the island, the indicators selected were: percentage of households
without piped water into their dwelling; percentage of households without exclusive use



21
of toilet facilities; percentage of labor force 15-29 years unemployed; and percentage of
age group 14-29 with primary school education only. The 506 communities were then
ranked based on these indicators and divided into quartiles. During negotiations, the
JSIF provided the following indicative targets; an estimated 40 percent of the resources
would go to the poorest quartile (with 18 percent of the population), 30 percent to the
second quartile (with 30 percent of the population), 20 percent to the third quartile (with
28 percent of the population) and 10 percent to the least poor quartile (with 24 of the
population) (para. 8.2(g)). Actual distribution of resources will be compared to these
targets and additional measures taken, if required, to ensure resources reach the intended
beneficiaries. The proposed project would finance, if necessary, technical assistance to
refine the poverty map and JSIF's targeting strategy based on experience.
Appraisal
5.13   Staff of the Appraisal Division would undertake a preliminary desk analysis to
confirm that the subproject is consistent with JSIF eligibility principles, the subproject
menu and criteria and that required documentation is complete. This analysis would be
followed by a site visit conducted with a representative of the subproject sponsor, as well
as an official of the relevant line ministry or Parish Council. Information contained in the
project proposal and confirmed or supplemented during the site visit would provide the
basis for appraisal according to the following criteria, as specified in the JSIF's
Operational Manual:
a) Technical criteria for subproject appraisal would be developed for each type of
subproject based on existing technical standards and norms to be provided by the
relevant line ministries and other government entities to ensure sectoral coherence
and compatibility. Technical appraisal would confirm that the project design and
specifications conform to these norms. It would also ensure that infrastructure,
equipment and other inputs are consistent in scale, quality, cost and content with the
proposed activities of the subproject and that implementation is technically feasible.
In the case of service projects, the technical criteria will assess the content and the
relevance to the community of the service being provided.
b) Financial and economic analysis would assess the estimated cost of each component
of the subproject cost schedule against unit costs developed by the JSIF providing
explanations for any significant variances. Where applicable, economic rates of
return would be calculated. For subprojects where quantitative economic analysis is
not applicable, cost-effectiveness of the subproject would be calculated. The source
of financing for the subproject would be assessed, counterpart contributions
confirmed and guarantees sought for the financing of recurrent costs. Where line
ministries are responsible for recurrent costs, they would be requested to assure funds
would be available.
c) Social analysis would confirm the identity of the potential beneficiaries and assess
their degree of participation in the identification and preparation of the subproject



22
proposal. Confirmation of the willingness and ability of the community and/or
sponsor to participate in supervision of subproject implementation and contribute to
the sustainability of the subproject output after implementation would also be sought.
Social analysis would also include an assessment of the likely impact of the project,
during and after implementation, on the communities with particular reference to
differential impacts by gender. Special emphasis would be placed on the impact of
proposed subprojects on youth and women and on social cohesion, in general.
d) Institutional and sustainability analysis, particularly when the subproject sponsor
also serves as executor, would assess the role of the organization in building
community cohesion as well as its capacity to implement the project. Sustainability
analysis would assess the commitment, in monetary as well as personnel terms, to the
sustainability of the project output. In the case of infrastructure projects, essential
maintenance activities would be identified and assessments conducted to determine
the institutional capabilities to undertake essential maintenance. Where training for
maintenance is considered necessary, it will be identified through this assessment.
e) Environmental analysis would be undertaken on subprojects with potential
environmental impact although, given the size and nature of subprojects, no
significant negative environmental impacts are anticipated. The environmental
assessment would identify measures for mitigation of minor adverse environmental
impacts or critical environmental problems requiring further investigation.
Approval and Bank Review
5.14  An appraisal report would be prepared for each subproject, according to a pre-
designed format, and reviewed at different levels in the organization. All subproject
proposals and appraisal reports would be reviewed by the Management Committee of the
JSIF for recommendation to the Board of Directors. Authority to approve, reject or
request revision and resubmission of all subprojects would rest with the Board which
would meet monthly or more frequently if necessary. The Board may delegate this
authority to an Executive Committee which would meet at least every two weeks or, in
the case of small contracts, to the JSIF Management Committee. The Executive
Committee would include at least one NGO and one private sector representative. The
JSIF Management Committee is comprised of the Managing Director, the Directors of the
Operations and Finance and Administration Departments and the heads of the Internal
Audit and Evaluation, Legal Advisory and MIS Units. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that subproject approval thresholds for the Board's Executive Committee
and the JSIF's Management Committee would be established by the Board and included
in the Operational Manual (para. 8.2(h)).
5.15  Once approved, subproject proposals would be submitted for clearance from
external financing sources when required. The Bank would review the first five
subprojects of each subproject category (i.e., social infrastructure, economic
infrastructure, social services and organizational strengthening) prior to contracting to



23
ensure adherence to eligibility and appraisal criteria. After that, given the nature, size and
estimated number of subprojects and demands on Bank supervision, the following
procedures would apply to Bank-financed subprojects: (i) for civil works contracts over
US$200,000, equipment contracts over US$100,000, and services and sponsor-executed
contracts over US$25,000, prior review by the Bank would be required; and (ii) for
subprojects under these limits, the Bank would carry out a random ex post review, based
on summary project data sheets acceptable to the Bank and bidding documents and
contracts to be retained by the JSIF. During negotiations, these subproject review
arrangements were confirmed with Government (para 8.2(i)).
Contracting, Execution and Supervision
5.16  Upon approval of a subproject request, an agreement would be signed between the
subproject sponsor and the JSIF delineating the responsibilities of both parties. The
agreement would authorize the JSIF, on behalf of the subproject sponsor, to proceed with
the selection of an executing agency/contractor in accordance with Bank procedures.
Once all pre-contractual conditions are satisfied, the JSIF would enter into a contract with
the executing agency/contractor. The nature of the executing agency/contractor would
vary by type of subproject. In the case of civil works projects, a local private sector
contractor would normally be hired to carry out the work. For social services projects,
the executing agency/contractor could be an NGO. While in most cases there will be
three different parties involved in a subproject - the JSIF, the sponsor and the executing
agency/contractor - in some cases an NGO might act as both the sponsor and the
executing agency/contractor. Prior to negotiations, the JSIF submitted a draft Sponsor
Agreement (para. 8.1 (e)). During negotiations, it was agreed that the Sponsor
Agreement and standard contract would be finalized prior to loan effectiveness and
included in the Operational Manual (para. 8.2(j)).
5.17  Executing agencies/contractors would present appropriate guarantees, including
performance bonds in the case of private sector contractors carrying out civil works,
under guidelines included in the Operational Manual. Upon presentation of appropriate
guarantees, JSIF would disburse directly to the contractor a mobilization advance
followed by regular disbursements based on work completed and confirmed during JSIF
site supervision visits. To increase controls on subproject execution, contingencies would
not be included in the subproject budgets. Although changes in standard subproject costs
are not expected given the accuracy and regular updating of the unit cost database, cost
adjustments would be handled through separate requests for a change in budget.
5.18  Subproject execution would be supervised by staff of the JSIF's Supervision
Division and, for infrastructure subprojects, by external on-site technical supervisors
contracted by the JSIF and financed as part of the subproject cost. Terms of reference
and standard contracts for external supervisors will be included in the Operational
Manual. The beneficiary group or project sponsor would also monitor the quality of
works, goods or services and general performance of the contractor. Requests for
disbursements would be made upon verification of work completed by both the external



24
supervisor and the beneficiary group or project sponsor. JSIF supervisors would visit the
subproject site periodically to inspect the progress of the work, assess general contractor
performance and authorize requested disbursements. In addition, local consultants would
be contracted to perform physical audits on a random sample of subprojects to evaluate
their technical quality and operational and maintenance cost coverage and to evaluate the
adequacy of JSIF's appraisal and supervision systems (para. 6.17).
Project Completion
5.19  The project completion stage involves certification and handover of works
completed, final payments and preparation of a subproject completion report. The
subproject completion report, to be generated by the Management Information System
(para. 5.20), would evaluate contractor performance, subproject processing time and cost.
This information would be incorporated in subsequent project planning and
implementation activities.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20 Management Information System. The Jamaica Social Investment Fund would
design and install a computerized Management Information System (MIS) to monitor the
subproject cycle and the performance of the JSIF in relation to programmed targets. The
MIS, which would be developed with software and technical assistance from other social
funds, would consist of: (i) a subproject database that would enable the management and
staff of the JSIF to monitor and track subprojects through all stages of the subproject
cycle and analyze the portfolio of the JSIF in relation to its objectives and sectoral and
poverty-level allocation targets; (ii) a budgeting and supervision control system to
facilitate the tracking of subproject budgets, resource flows and physical progress of
projects, and (iii) a geographical information system for database queries and visual
geographical representation of the Fund's investments and activities.
5.21  The MIS would allow management to improve planning and operations of the
JSIF; inform interested parties on the progress of subprojects; and report on the numbers
and locations of beneficiaries, and the nature and extent of benefits received. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Management Information System, acceptable to the Bank,
would be operational (para. 8.2(d)).
5.22  Performance Indicators. An important function of the MIS would be to produce
reports on a comprehensive series of performance indicators designed to measure the
performance of the JSIF. This capability is particularly important given the need to
justify the creation of the JSIF as a new and exceptional institution. Draft indicators
measuring the Fund's capacity, efficiency, quality and impact are detailed in Annex H.
During negotiations, it was agreed that a subset of these indicators would be monitored
by the Bank (para. 8.2(k)). As a condition of effectiveness, the JSIF wouldfurnish to the



25
Bankperformance targets, satisfactory to the Bank, for the first year ofproject
implementation (para. 8.3(e)). Annual performance targets would be reviewed and
revised annually as part of JSIF's annual review exercise.
5.23  Impact Evaluation. In order to determine the social and economic impact, assess
the participatory aspects, ensure technical quality and calculate the cost-effectiveness of
JSIF-financed interventions, audits, assessments and evaluations would be contracted
externally for the following activities: (a) physical audits to assess the technical quality
of subprojects (para. 5.18); (b) beneficiary assessments to receive direct, unbiased and
constructive feedback from JSIF's target population; and (c) ex-post evaluations to
determine impact in terms of access to services and improvements in the standard of
living of JSIF beneficiaries and institution building of other government agencies and
project sponsors. The results of these evaluations would be used by JSIF management to
adjust policies and procedures in order to achieve the JSIF's objectives. An evaluation
and supervision plan is presented in Annex I.
E. Reporting and Supervision
5.24  The following reporting requirements would apply to the proposed project:
(i) The JSIF would submit to the Bank standard Monthly Progress Reports, according to
an agreed format, and based on information from the Management Information System;
(ii) The JSIF would prepare an Annual Report to be approved by its Board of Directors
and submitted to the Bank, no later than August 31 of the following year. Annual
Reports would contain key performance indicators of JSIF, a review of technical
assistance and training efforts, the results of any monitoring and impact evaluation
studies, and the implementation of recommendations from the external management,
financial and technical audits.
(iii) Upon completing this report, the JSIF, in collaboration with the Bank and other co-
financiers, would undertake an Annual Portfolio Review to be held no later than
September 30 of every year (beginning in 1997). This review would include an
assessment of performance indicators, subprojects by type and location, completion
schedule and costs, cash-flow projections, recurrent and maintenance cost coverage,
operational procedures, including environmental assessment procedures, and the
availability of Govermnent counterpart funds. The input of all stakeholders would be
sought during the review.
(iv) No later than six months after the project closing date, JSIF would submit a final
report and evaluation of the outcome of the proposed project.



26
Attempts would be made to ensure that report formats meet the needs of all JSIF donors
to the maximum extent feasible.
5.25 Mid-Term Review. The Bank, JSIF, relevant Government agencies and other
external financing agencies would conduct a joint Mid-Term Review to evaluate the
performance of the JSIF. This exercise would be scheduled to occur promptly after
US$7.5 million of the Bank loan for the financing of subprojects is disbursed or no later
than 24 months after the date of effectiveness of the loan. The Mid-Term Review is
designed to provide an opportunity to evaluate the experience of the JSIF both at an
operational level and in the context of Government's National Poverty Program to
determine its optimal duration and scope beyond the life of the project. At the end of the
review, a Mid-Term Review Report would be submitted to the Bank highlighting any
major problems, issues and bottlenecks identified during the review process and the
proposals for resolving them and fulfilling the project objectives. During negotiations,
Government's agreement to these reporting and review requirements was obtained (para.
8.2(1) and (m)).
5.26  Bank Supervision. Due to the demand-driven nature of JSIF, the large number
of subprojects to be reviewed, the newness of the institution and the importance of
transparency, intensive supervision is required by the Bank. An estimated 25 staff weeks
would be required annually, 20 from the Resident Mission in Kingston and 5 from
Headquarters, costing a total of approximately US$50,000. Supervision tasks would
include visits to subprojects in execution, ex-ante and ex-post subproject reviews,
procurement reviews and monitoring of monthly performance reports. In order to reduce
the costs of supervision, joint supervision missions would be conducted with other
external co-financiers and the feasibility of contracting local consultants to review
selected aspects of JSIF's operations would be explored.
F. Environmental Impact
5.27  The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
Given the size and nature of subprojects, no significant negative environmental impacts
are anticipated and no resettlement is envisioned. Environmental impact assessments
would be carried out as part of the subproject appraisal process and technical assistance
would be provided to the JSIF to develop environmental assessment policies and
procedures. If adverse impacts are foreseen on a subproject, necessary mitigating
measures, if not already outlined, would be incorporated into the subproject design at
appraisal. The adequacy of JSIF's environmental procedures would be assessed by the
Bank as part of the Annual Portfolio Review.



27
6. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs and Financing Plan
6.1    Project Costs. The total project cost, expressed in April 1996 prices, is estimated
at US$50 million, net of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange content amounts to US$
18.2 million, representing about 36 percent of total project cost. A summary of project
costs by component is shown in Table 6.1 with a detailed cost table provided in Annex J.
Table 6.1: Summary Cost Table
(US$ OOOs)
Local   Foreign    I otal
I.  JSIF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Salaries                                          5,678       0    5,678
Vehicles and Equipment                             103      377      480
Operating Expenses                                1,587     152    1,738
Technical Assistance and Training                  660      740    1,400
Sub-total Institutional Support                   8,027    1,268    9,295
II.  JSIF SUB-PROJECTS
Social Infrastructure                            15,736   13,773   29,509
Economic Infrastructure                           3,808    2,051    5,859
Social Services                                   2,227     557    2,784
Organizational Strengthening                      2,042     511    2,553
Sub-total Sub-projects                           23,814   16,891   40,705
6.2    A total of US$40.7 million, or 81 percent, of the total project cost is allocated to
finance subprojects. The share of funds assigned to each type of subproject is indicative,
with revisions possible based on implementation experience. Given the fact that the JSIF
is an intermediary and is demand-driven by nature, the actual breakdown will depend on
demand and operational experience. No contingencies have been included for
subprojects as any increase in individual subproject costs would be administered through
change orders (para. 5.17) and absorbed by the subproject budget, resulting in a reduction
of the number of subprojects executed. Institutional support to the JSIF (excluding
technical assistance and training) accounts for US$7.9 million or 16 percent of total
project cost. Costs of technical assistance and training for the JSIF are estimated at
US$1.4 million for the project. Since the procurement of most of the vehicles and
equipment will take place during the first year of the project, no contingencies have been
provided for that category.
6.3    Financing Plan. The proposed loan of US$20 million would finance 40 percent
of total project cost over the projected four-year implementation period. The financing



28
plan is shown in Table 6.2. Government will make available approximately US$2.5
million in local currency from counterpart funds generated through the European Union
General Import Program to assist in establishing the JSIF and facilitate rapid
consideration of subprojects. Government would commit an additional US$7.5 million
over the course of the project for a total of US$ 10 million or 20 percent of total project
cost. Subproject beneficiaries and sponsors would provide an estimated 12 percent of the
total cost of subprojects, although this percentage would vary depending on the type of
subproject, the resources available from the sponsoring agency and the income-level of
the beneficiary community. Beneficiaries and sponsors would provide the bulk of their
contribution in the form of donated labor and local materials, and project preparation and
supervision services. During negotiations, Government provided assurances on the
provision of the specified amount of government counterpart financing each year and
agreed that beneficiaries/sponsors would be obligated by JSIF to contribute a minimum
percentage of subproject cost (para 8.2(n) and (o)). As a condition of effectiveness,
Government willfurnish to the Bank evidence of the availability of the minimum
counterpartfundsfor Fiscal Year 1996/97 (para. 8.3(f)). Additional identified co-
financing includes a grant of approximately US$3 million recently approved by the
Government of the Netherlands to be managed by the World Bank under a Trust Fund
arrangement. The Inter-American Development Bank is preparing a US$10 million loan
for approval by December, 1996. The British Development Division in the Caribbean
intends to provide long-term technical assistance to the JSIF, particularly in the areas of
participatory community needs assessment/project identification and gender analysis. The
European Union has expressed interest in providing additional grant resources pending an
initial assessment of the Fund's operations. It was agreed with the JSIF and major
identified co-financiers during appraisal that cross-default clauses between the Bank's
legal documents and cofinancing agreements would not be necessary. Any eventual
shortfall in fund-raising would reduce the ultimate number of subprojects to be financed
but would not endanger JSIF's functioning nor the benefits accrued from Bank-funded
JSIF projects. The overall financing share of JSIF's overhead expenses would be
apportioned 50:25:25 among the Bank, the IDB and Government.
Table 6.2: Financing Plan
(US$OOOs)
bUJ  5soneTici  IWKU    lJUt   uOVt Of  umner   I M
Sponsor             Netherlands Donor   Cost
L. JSIF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Salaries                          764     0   3,446  1,468       0     0   5,678
Vehicles and Equipment            120     0    240   120         0     0    480
Openting Expenses                 435     0    869   435         0     0   1.738
Technical Assistance and Training  119    0    119   213       450   500   1,400
Sub-total Inslitutlonal Support  1,437    0   4,673  2,235     450   500   9,295
II. JSIF SUB-PROJECTS                   8,563  5,000  15,327  7,765    2,550  1,500  40,705
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  10,000  5,000  20,000  10,000    3,000  2,000  50,000
FINANCING SHARE                      20%    10%   40%   20%        6%    4%   100%



29
6.4   Project preparation activities have been expedited by a grant from the Japanese
Policy and Human Resources Development Fund of 51.4 million yen (approximately
US$485,000) signed in March 1995. This grant money was used to finance the
establishment and operations of the Project Preparation Management Unit (PPMU) and
technical assistance to the PPMU to design the JSIF. Technical assistance is also being
provided by the IDB. Out of the proposed loan, up to a maximum of US$1 million
equivalent would be available for retroactive financing to finance pilot subprojects,
salaries, administrative overhead and technical assistance between June 1, 1996 and loan
effectiveness. This trial implementation period would allow the JSIF to test and refine its
operational procedures based on processing and financing a set of pilot subprojects.
B.   Procurement
6.5   Procurement of civil works, goods and services financed by the Bank will be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines (see Annex K for a summary matrix of
procurement and disbursement methods). The Bank and Government have agreed that all
co-financiers should accept the common set of procurement procedures detailed in the
Operational Manual.
6.6   Civil Works. No international competitive bidding is expected under the
proposed project given the small size of subproject contracts: the maximum subproject
cost is US$350,000 with average subproject cost estimated at about US$50,000. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would apply to civil
works contracts valued between US$100,000 and US$350,000. Approximately US$4
million of civil works contracts to be financed by the Bank is expected to be awarded
through NCB, representing 38 percent of the civil works subproject amount. Minor
works contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000, up to an expected total
aggregate amount of US$6 million to be financed by the Bank, will be procured under
lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified contractors in response to written invitation. A unit cost database maintained by
the JSIF would be used to check the competitiveness of quotes under this procedure. In
exceptional circumstances detailed in the Operational Manual, direct contracting would
apply to some contracts below US$25,000, with a maximum contract value per
subproject of US$25,000. Direct contracting would be allowed up to a total aggregate
amount of US$430,000. Packaging groups of subprojects is unlikely to be possible
except in circumstances in which a sponsoring agency has applied for a package of
investments.
6.7   Equipment and Goods. Goods and equipment to be purchased under the
project's Institutional Support Component include vehicles, computers, office equipment
and furniture. Under the Subproject Component, they include furniture, basic equipment
and supplies for schools, health clinics and other facilities. Packages of goods and
equipment above US$150,000, where international competitive bidding procedure would
apply, are not anticipated. For goods and equipment costing more than US$25,000 and



30
less than US$150,000, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank would apply. Under the subproject component, an anticipated US$1.6 million of
equipment to be financed by the Bank is expected to be purchased under NCB. For
procurement of goods and equipment costing US$25,000 or less under both components,
international or local shopping procedures would apply, with an estimated aggregate
amount of US$40,000 for the institutional support component and US$1.2 million for
subprojects. In exceptional circumstances detailed in the Operational Manual, direct
contracting would apply to some contracts below US$2,000, with a maximum contract
value per subproject of US$2,000. Direct contracting would be allowed up to an
aggregate amount of US$90,000. Under the institutional support component, Limited
International Bidding acceptable to the Bank would apply to vehicles and computer
equipment (with an estimated total value of US$200,000) whereby the JSIF would solicit
bids from all international suppliers with service facilities in Jamaica.
6.8   The main control on direct contracting would be JSIF's strict adherence to the
costs provided in the unit cost system. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
the JSIF would update the unit cost system at least every six months and submit updated
information to the Bank for ex post review (para.8.2(p)). All cost estimates for
subprojects would have to fall within the cost limits calculated using the database. This
system has proved an effective tool for controlling subproject costs and procurement in
other social funds. The JSIF would need to demonstrate that the costs of the subprojects
are competitive with similar projects, particularly those financed under other World Bank
operations. As an additional safeguard, JSIF would keep a database on the number,
amount and location of subprojects implemented by individual contractors and would
limit the total value of contracts that can be awarded to any one contractor under direct
contracting to US$200,000 for civil works projects. These direct contracting guidelines
would be agreed upon and included in the Operational Manual. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that no change can be made to: (i) the maximum contract values
per subproject of US$25,000 for civil works and US$2,000 for goods that can be awarded
through direct contracting and (ii) the US$200,000 ceiling amount awarded to any one
contractor for civil works projects through direct contracting procedures within the life of
the project without prior Bank approval (para.8.2(b))
6.9   Consultant Services and Training. A total of approximately US$5.8 million
(institutional support and subprojects) to be financed by the Bank (and the Netherlands
Government under a Trust Fund arrangement) would be allocated to consultant services
and training under the project. The selection and appointment of consultants would be
done in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (1981),
including the contracting of JSIF managerial and technical personnel.
6.10  Categories Not Applicable to Procurement Arrangements. Standard
procurement arrangements would not apply to JSIF operating expenses (administrative
staff salaries, rent, utilities, travel and minor office supplies). Social assistance
subprojects sponsored and executed by the same NGO would also not be governed by
standard procurement procedures.



31
Table 6.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB       Other          N.B.F.      Total
1. JSIF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Vehicles and Equipment                 -.-       -.-        0.2 a          0.2         0.5
(0.2)           -.-       (0.2)
Operating Expenses                     -.-        -.-       1.1 h           1.6        2.7
(1.1)            -        (I 1)
Technical Assistance and Training      -.-        -.-       3.8 c          2.3         6.1
(3.8)            .        (3.8)
Sub-total Institutional Support        -.-       0.0        5.1            4.2         9.3
(0.0)     (5. 1)            - -      (5. 1)
II. JSIF SUB-PROJECTS
Civil Works                            -.-       3.9        6.4 d          17.1       27.5
(3.9)     (6.4)                     (10.3)
Equipment and Goods                    -.-       1.6        1.3e           4.9         7.9
(1.6)     (1.3)                      (3.0)
Services (T.A. and Training)           -.-        -.-       2.0'           3.3         5.3
(2.0)                     (2.0)
Sub-total Sub-projects                 -.-       5.6        9.7           25.4        40.7
(5.6)     (9.7)                     (15.3)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     -.-       5.6       14.9           30.0        50.0
(5.6)    (14.9)                     (20.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank. N.B.F.: Not Bank-
Financed, including all parallel co-financing and other donor support.
a Limited international bidding.
b Standard procurement procedures would not be applicable to operating expenses (administrative staff
salaries, rent, travel, utilities and minor office supplies).
c Consulting services to be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
dIncludes comparison of three quotations for subprojects valued under US$ 100,000 (aggregate amount
US$6 million) and direct contracting for some subprojects valued under US$25,000 (aggregate amount
US$430,000).
e Includes local shopping for subprojects valued under US$25,000 (aggregate amount US$1.2 million) and
direct contracting for some subproject valued under US$2,000 (aggregate amount US$90,000).
fIncludes services subprojects procured following Bank guidelines for consultant services and sponsor-
executed subprojects which would not be covered by Bank procurement guidelines (estimated at US$I
million).



32
6.11  Bank Review. Bank review procedures of subproject approvals to ensure
compliance with agreed procurement arrangements are provided in para. 5.15. Prior
Bank review would also be required for contracts for all vehicles and equipment
purchased for the JSIF. Prior Bank review would be required for all contracts for the
employment of consultant firms above US$100,000 and for the employment of individual
consultants above US$50,000 under the JSIF Institutional Support Component. In
addition, prior review would be required for JSIF management-level positions. These
arrangements would result in prior review by the Bank of an estimated 25 percent of the
value of all Bank-financed contracts. Measures to ensure effective operations and
compliance with procurement arrangements include: on-site technical supervisors
contracted by the JSIF (para. 5.17); physical technical audits conducted on a random
sample of subprojects (paras. 5.18 and 6.17); annual financial and management audits
(para. 6.16) and application of the unit cost system (para. 6.8).
C. Disbursements
6.12  The proposed World Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years.
Project activities are expected to be completed by September 30, 2000 (completion date)
with disbursements completed by March 31, 2001 (closing date). A disbursement profile
is provided in Annex L. Although this profile is shorter than for other LAC social sector
projects, it is in line with the Bank's experience with social funds and is based on
anticipated demand and appraised institutional capacity.
Table 6.4: Estimated IBRD Disbursement
FY1997     FY1998       FY1999      FY2000      FY2001
Annual            2.5         6.5          6           3.5         1.5
Cumulative        2.5          9           15          18.5         20
6.13  Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditures:
(a) JSIF subproject grants: 100 percent of disbursements on subprojects approved
according to SIF subproject eligibility and appraisal criteria; (b) JSIF personnel and
operating costs: 100 percent of eligible expenditures (net of taxes); (c) JSIF vehicles
and equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
and (d) JSIF technical assistance and training: 100 percent of expenditures (net of
taxes).
6.14  Documentation of Expenditure. For civil works US$200,000 or less, equipment
US$100,000, services and sponsor-executed subprojects under US$25,000, JSIF
administrative expenditures and contracts for JSIF fixed-term non-managerial staff,
withdrawal applications would be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). For
civil works over US$200,000, equipment over US$100,000, services and sponsor-



33
executed subprojects US$25,000 or more and JSIF consultant and technical assistance
contracts, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation.
Supporting documentation for all SOEs would be maintained by the JSIF and made
available for review by Bank staff. Payment for expenditures made on subprojects would
be requested only for those subprojects approved in accordance with procedures detailed
in the Operational Manual and for which the corresponding Sponsor Agreement has been
signed. A Special Account in US Dollars, with an authorized allocation of US$1.0
million, equivalent to an estimated four months of average disbursement, will be
established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. During the start of the project
the Government may request up to US$500,000 as an initial deposit to the Special
Account. After disbursement and commitments from the loan account have reached
US$2.0 million, the Government may request the balance of the authorized allocation.
During negotiations, agreement to these disbursement arrangements was reached with
Government (para. 8.2(q)). In accordance with the provision for retroactive financing
(see para. 6.4), withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1 million, may be
made on account of payments for expenditures under both components between June 1,
1996 and loan effectiveness.
D. Accounts and Auditing
6.15  The JSIF's Finance and Administration Department would be responsible for the
overall financial management of the Fund. It would develop and implement a computer-
based management information and accounting system which would enable JSIF to
provide quick and reliable financial information on subprojects and administrative
expenses, including tracking expenditures by financing source. JSIF would also hire an
Internal Auditor who would be responsible for conducting specific operational and
administrative audits for the Board. These audit reports would be used as management
tools to identify and take corrective actions if necessary to ensure the correct uses of
funds. The Government's Auditor General would also retain the right to audit the JSIF.
6.16  External financial and management audits would be performed on an annual
basis through the contracting of independent, private auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The external audits would cover all project accounts, the Special Account and all
disbursement requests made against Statements of Expenditures. During appraisal, draft
terms of reference for the external financial audits was submitted and is attached as
Annex M. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that audits would be
conducted by an independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank and would follow
terms of reference in accordance with appropriate auditing standards, as approved by the
Bank; and that the JSIF on behalf of Government would send a copy of the external audit
report to the Bank within six months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 8.2(r)). The
report would certify that the JSIF is using its resources for the purposes for which they
were provided and that disbursements and procurement for all contacts are being carried
out in accordance with the agreed guidelines and Bank procurement regulations. Under



34
the JSIF's Articles of Association, auditors would also be required to perforn an annual
management audit of the company. During appraisal, draft terms of reference for the
management audit was submitted is attached as Annex L.
6.17  External technical audits of an agreed upon percentage of subprojects would
also be carried out by local consultants to identify implementation constraints and assess
the technical quality of JSIF-financed subprojects. Information would be used by
management, in particular the Supervision Department, to remove obstacles and improve
the quality of work being performed. The technical audit would also provide information
on the coverage of operational and maintenance costs. The JSIF would adjust its
procedures and eligibility priorities based on the audit findings (para. 5.18).
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1   The proposed project would finance more than 800 subprojects, expected to cost
an average of US$50,000 with none exceeding US$350,000, which would provide low-
income rural and urban communities with basic social and physical infrastructure, social
services and organizational strengthening. Based on the experience with social
investment funds in other countries, the project is expected to yield tangible, widespread
and sustainable benefits relatively quickly and transparently. Eligibility and appraisal
criteria for subprojects would ensure their efficiency within acceptable ranges of cost per
unit, cost per beneficiary and, where, applicable, economic rates of return.
7.2   Given the demand-driven nature of the investments, it is not possible to quantify
ex ante the exact numbers of subprojects in each category, the numbers of beneficiaries or
the actual benefits to be delivered. Based on a needs assessment exercise conducted
during preparation, the percentage of subprojects demanded by category, however, is
estimated to be: social infrastructure - 56 percent; economic infrastructure - 11 percent;
social services - 20 percent and organizational strengthening - 13 percent. Highest
priority would be given to the poorest geographic regions using a poverty map.
7.3   Expected subproject impacts include: (a) for education and training subprojects,
increased access to pre-primary and primary education, improved quality of the learning
environment; expended access to non-formal training and improved employability; (b) for
social development subprojects, improved quality of care facilities for children and the
elderly and increased access to community facilities; (c) for health and sanitation
subprojects, lower infant and maternal mortality and reduced incidence of disease; and (d)
for productive sector support subprojects, improved access to markets and increased
productivity and household income. The impact of subprojects would be monitored



35
against key performance indicators and through qualitative beneficiary assessments and
ex post evaluations.
7.4   The proposed project would also have important institutional effects in:
(a) expanding the capacity of NGOs/CBOs and communities to identify, prepare, manage
and sustain community-level investments, and thereby increasing stocks of social capital;
(b) demonstrating the relevance of beneficiary participation in reducing poverty; and
(c) providing an efficient and effective model of public sector implementation capacity.
B. Sustainability
7.5    During appraisal of the subproject, the JSIF would apply sustainability criteria.
All subprojects are required to have a high degree of participation by beneficiaries in
identification, preparation, management and maintenance, as evidenced by social analysis
and the level of community contribution. Sponsors of all subprojects would present a
specific plan for operations and maintenance. For subprojects generating recurrent costs,
coordinating agreements would require line ministries and local governments to
guarantee financing before the subproject is approved. For social services subprojects,
particular attention would be placed on the institutional analysis of the capacity of the
sponsor to sustain services beyond JSIF financing.
7.6    Given its temporary mandate, the sustainability of the JSIF as an institution is not
an issue. Based on experience, Government may wish to extend or transform the agency
as it approaches the closing date. The duration and scope of the JSIF after the end of the
proposed project would be evaluated with respect to its performance, the status of parallel
public sector reforms and Government's evolving poverty reduction strategy.
C. Risks
7.7   The proposed project faces several risks that are inherent in a new operation and
one in which resources are provided on a grant basis for numerous, widespread
investments which are not pre-identified. The principal risk relates to the leakage of
resources to non-target groups and/or areas because of political interference in the JSIF's
operations. The transparent and participatory nature of the project itself combined with
the visible benefits from subprojects, would create strong incentives for various
stakeholders - especially beneficiary communities, NGOs/CBOs, Parish Councils and
central government - not only to provide required counterpart resources, but to limit the
diversion of resources to non-target groups and/or areas. The risk of diversion of
resources is also mitigated by the establishment of the JSIF as an autonomous
government company with transparent and efficient operating procedures, clear targeting
criteria and adequate institutional checks and balances.



36
7.8   A second risk is that the decentralized nature of the operation could result in low
quality of subprojects because of non-compliance with established appraisal criteria or
insufficient supervision. To minimize this risk, the types of eligible subprojects and thus
the range of technical expertise the JSIF would need to maintain would be limited. For
eligible subprojects, quality control measures would include on-site supervision to be
contracted as part of subproject costs, independent technical reviews of subprojects,
impact evaluations with direct input from beneficiaries and intensive oversight by
external financing agencies.
7.9   A third risk is the lack of coherence and coordination with other sectoral activities
which could result in duplication of effort, inconsistency with established norms and
strategies, and a lack of absorption of recurrent costs after the project ends jeopardizing
the sustainability of benefits. To address this risk, the JSIF would incorporated sector
norms and technical specifications, where available, into its appraisal criteria. The JSIF
would also encourage the participation by key sector ministries and local governments in
the appraisal of subprojects and would enter into coordinating agreements specifying
approval and maintenance procedures and requirements.
7.10  In conclusion, based on strong Government ownership of the project, the
successful experiences with social investment funds in other countries and the safeguards
adopted to address specific risks, the overall risk that the project may not achieve its
development objectives is considered relatively low.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1   Prior to negotiations, the JSIF submitted to the Bank: (a) a signed Memorandum
of Understanding (para. 5.1); (b) a draft Subsidiary Agreement (para. 5.1); (c) a revised
version of the Operational Manual (para. 5.2); (b) the initial members of the Board of
Directors (para. 5.3); and (e) a draft Sponsor Agreement (para. 5.16).
8.2   During negotiations, agreement was reached between the Bank and the
Government that:
a) the JSIF would approve only those subprojects for which there are eligibility
and appraisal criteria in the Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank (para.
4.12);
b) no change to: (i) the menu of eligible subprojects, (ii) the appraisal criteria,
(iii) the $350,000 maximum subproject limit, (iv) the maximum contract
values per subproject of US$25,000 for civil works and US$2,000 for goods
that can be awarded through direct contracting, and (v) the US$200,000
ceiling awarded to any one contractor for civil works through direct



37
contracting during the life of the project would be made without prior Bank
approval (para. 4.12 and 6.8);
c) Govermnent would make the proceeds of the loan available to the JSIF on a
non-reimbursable basis pursuant to a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.1);
d) no changes would be made to the approved Operational Manual without the
prior approval of the Bank (para. 5.2);
e) the JSIF's management level positions would be staffed satisfactorily to the
Bank (para. 5.6);
f) the Bank would review the effectiveness of the promotions strategy six
months after loan effectiveness (para. 5.8);
g) as initial indicative allocations, 40 percent of the resources would go to the
poorest quartile, 30 percent to the second quartile, 20 percent to the third
quartile and 10 percent to the least poor quartile (para. 5.12);
h) subproject approval thresholds for the Board's Executive Committee and JSIF
Management Committee would be established by the Board and included in
the Operational Manual (para. 5.14);
i) Bank subproject review arrangements would be carried out as specified,
including submission of appropriate documentation (para. 5.15 and 6.11);
j) the Sponsor Agreement and standard contract would be finalized prior to loan
effectiveness and included in the Operational Manual (para. 5.16);
k) the Bank would monitor selected institutional performance indicators (para.
5.22);
1) the JSIF fulfill the following reporting requirements: (i) submission of
Monthly Progress Reports from the MIS; (ii) submission of Annual Reports
approved by JSIF's Board of Directors; and (iii) submission of a Final Report
and evaluation of the outcome of the proposed project no later than six months
after the close of the project (para. 5.24 and 5.25);
m) project implementation would include joint Annual Portfolio Reviews and a
joint Mid-Term Review to be conducted promptly after US$7.5 million of the
Bank loan for the financing of subprojects is disbursed or no later than 24
months after date of effectiveness of the loan (para. 5.24 and 5.25);



38
n) Government would provide the necessary counterpart funds, including
specified annual amounts (para. 6.3);
o) Beneficiaries/sponsors would be obligated to contribute a minimum
percentage of subproject cost (para. 6.3);
p) JSIF would update the unit cost system at least every six months and submit
updated information to the Bank for ex post review (para. 6.8);
q) Government would carry out specified disbursement arrangements, including
the opening of a Special Account managed by the JSIF with an initial
authorized allocation of US$500,000 (para. 6.14); and
r) annual audits would be conducted by an independent private auditor
acceptable to the Bank and would follow terms of reference in accordance
with appropriate auditing standards. Audits would be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the close of each GOJ fiscal year (para. 6.16).
8.3   Conditions of loan effectiveness include:
a) the Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would have been signed
and entered into effect between Government and the JSIF (para. 5.1);
b) JSIF's Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, would have been
approved by the Board of Directors (para. 5.2);
c) key managers and staff acceptable to the Bank, as agreed during negotiations,
would have been hired by the JSIF (para. 5.6);
d) the Management Information System, acceptable to the Bank, would be
operational (para. 5.21);
e) the JSIF would have furnished to the Bank performance targets, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the first year of project implementation (para. 5.22); and
f) Government would have furnished to the Bank evidence of the availability of
the minimum counterpart funds for Fiscal Year 1996/97 (para. 6.3).
Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$20 million equivalent on
standard Bank terms to the Government of Jamaica.



39
ANNEX A
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I ntrodicl ion
Backg-round
Mission Statement
Objectives of the JSIF
PART A: JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND ORGANIZATION
Chaptcr 1: Organizational Structure and Functions of the JSIF
Lcr;il and Institutional Framework
Bioard of Directors
Organizational Structure
Chapter 2? Finance
Annual Work Plan and Budget
Financing
A\ccounting System and Procedures
AuIditin g
Chapter 3 l)isbtirsement Procedures
C;ihaptet 4. Procurement Guidelines
C:hapter 5: Acldministration and Personnel
Office procedures
Staff procedures
Chapter 6: Maanagement Information System
Chapter 7: Reporting Requirements
PART B: JISIF OPERATIONS
Chapter 1: Subprojects
Eligibility Criteria
Menu of Eligible Subprojects
T-arg,eting Strategy
Chapter 2- Subproject Promotion, Identification and Preparation
Project Promotion
Project Identification
Project Application and Registration
Review and Screening of Applications



40
Chapter 3: Subproject Appraisal and Approval
Preliminary Analysis and Site Visit
Unit Cost System
Project Appraisal
Project Approval
Chapter 4: Subproject Contracting
JSIF-Sponsor Agreement
Registration of Contractors/Consultants
Selection of Contractors/Consultants
Procurement Methods and Procedures
Award of Contract
Mobilization Advance
Chapter 5: Supervision
Organization of Supervision
Supervision Activities
Disbursements
Chapter 6: Project Completion
Certification and Handover
Request for Final Payment
Project Completion Report
Post Implementation Agreements
Chapter 7: Monitoring and Evaluation
Management Information System
Implementation Performance Indicators
Impact Evaluation
Subproject Appraisal Guidelines
Annexes
Terms of Reference External Financial Audit
Terms of Reference Management Audit
Menu of Eligible Subprojects
Promotion Field Visit Authorization Forn and Field Survey Form
Project Application Form
Guidelines for Project Preparation
Technical Requirements
Project Appraisal Authorization Form and Report
Procurement Procedures: Bid Advertisement and Selection
Responsibilities of Project Sponsor
Model Agreement - JSIF and Project Sponsor
Model Contract - JSIF and Contractor/Executing Agency
Supervision Progress Report
Work Progress and Cost Estimate
Terms of Reference for External Project Supervisors
Project Supervision Report
Completion Certificate
Completion Report
Performance Indicators



41
ANNEX B
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Eligibility Principles
I.  Subproject Menu: All projects must be on the menu of eligible subprojects.
2.  Poverty Targeting: Projects will benefit the poor. The types of eligible subprojects will help ensure high
coverage of poor people. Projects will also be targeted towards the poorest regions of the country based on a
poverty map.
3.  Beneficiary Participation: Projects must incorporate beneficiary participation at all stages of project
identification, design, implementation and operation.
4.  Beneficiary Cost-Sharing: The beneficiary group/project sponsor will be required to make a counterpart
contribution, either in cash or kind, towards financing of the project. The exact proportion of beneficiary
contribution will vary by type of project and resources of the beneficiary.
5.  Eligible Applicants: The JSIF will consider applications for project financing from project sponsors representing
community groups. Project sponsors may be central government ministries, local government authorities, non-
government and community-based organizations, community groups and private sector entities. An individual
may not sponsor a project. Subprojects for individual benefit will only be considered if requested by the
community.
6.  Project Sponsorship: The JSIF will not sponsor projects. It will respond to the demand for project proposed by
sponsors. The JSIF, government agencies and other groups will promote, encourage and orient the demand for
project financing.
7.  Project Implementation: The JSIF will not execute projects on its own, but will employ the services of local
contractors (civil works and goods projects) or consultants (service projects) to implement approved projects.
Contractors and consultants may be private sector companies, non-governmental and community-based
organizations or individuals which meet JSIF's requirements for implementation of small-scale community-based
projects. Except for certain types of projects (e.g., some social assistance projects), a sponsor may not serve as
contractor on the project.
8.  Recurrent Expenditures: The JSIF will not provide resources to supplement recurrent expenditures.
9.  Sustainability: The JSIF will not finance recurrent costs, including maintenance. Fund support will be
conditional upon confirmation that resources (private and public) will be made available to meet recurrent
expenditures.
10. Complementarity: The JSIF will collaborate with line ministries to ensure complementarity of objectives.
Infrastructure projects must, as far as possible, conform to the norms and standards of line ministries or relevant
authorities.
11. Project Size: The JSIF will finance small-scale community-based projects with a cost not exceeding
US$350,000.
12. Project Costs and Benefits: Projects will employ least-cost designs and deliver maximum benefits for a given
cost. Projects will be appraised according to standard methods of measuring costs and benefits.



42
ANNEX C
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Menu of Eligible Subprojects
1. Social Infrastructure
Subproject Type              I              Special Conditions
Education
i) Civil Works: Rehabilitation, expansion and  Standards to conform to Ministry of Education
construction of pre-primary (basic and infant),  norms. Support conditional on guarantee of funds
primary, and all-age schools (including school  to meet recurrent costs, including maintenance.
libraries).
ii) Equipment: Purchase of basic furniture,   Equipment to be provided to existing operation or
equipment and library books for pre-primary,  provision to coincide with opening of new school.
primary and all-age schools.                  Equipment must conform to pre-determined list and
MOE norms.
Health
i) Civil Works: Rehabilitation, expansion and  Priority on rehabilitation and expansion. Standards
construction of health centers.              to conform to Ministry of Health norms. Support
conditional on guarantee of funds to meet recurrent
costs, including maintenance.
ii) Equipment: Purchase of furniture and basic  To conform to pre-determined list and MOH norms.
medical equipment for health centers.
Social Development/Welfare
i) Civil Works: Construction and rehabilitation of   Support conditional on guarantee of funds to meet
day care centers and homes for children, the elderly  recurrent costs, including maintenance.
and disabled.
ii) Equipment: Provision of furniture and basic  To conform to pre-determined list.
equipment for day care centers and homes for
children, the elderly and disabled.
iii) Civil Works: Rehabilitation of integrated  Support conditional on guarantee of funds to meet
community spaces (including teen centers, training   recurrent costs, including maintenance. Appraisal
facilities, sports facilities)               to include type, coverage and profile of
beneficiaries.
iv) Equipment: Provision of furniture and basic    To conform to pre-determined list.
equipment for integrated community spaces.
Sanitation
i) Civil Works: Construction and rehabilitation of   To conform to public health standards.
public sanitary conveniences (latrines, community    Construction to be coupled with training program in
showers) and sewage systems.                  maintenance and use.
ii) Civil Works: Construction and rehabilitation of  To conformn to national standards.
small-scale community-based water systems.
iii) Civil Works: Construction and rehabilitation of To conform to public health standards.
drains and canals.



43
2. Economic Infrastructure
Subproject Type               I               Special Conditions
Productive Sector Support
i) Civil Works: Rehabilitation and upgrading of    Evidence that road is frequently used by target
parochial, feeder and urban access roads.      groups for transport of legitimate goods and
services or personal use to access schools, health
facilities or workplaces.
ii) Civil Works: Construction and rehabilitation of  To conform to standards set by relevant
small community-based agroprocessing facilities.    governmental agencies. Support conditional on
guarantee of availability of funds and/or expertise
to effect regular preventive and comprehensive
maintenance.
iii) Equipment: Provision of equipment for     To conform to standards set by relevant
agroprocessing facilities.                     government agencies.
3. Social Services
Subprojeci Type               [               Special Conditions
Counseling and Training
i) Services: Provision of assistance to programs  Target population to be clearly identified and
that offer services in career guidance and job  potential impact of training demonstrated.
placement.                                     Subprojects must be executed by NGOs/CBOs.
ii) Services: Provision of assistance to programs    Target population to be clearly identified and
that offer services in counseling (including conflict   potential impact of programs demonstrated.
resolution and drug abuse) and parenting and   Subprojects must be executed by NGOs/CBOs.
family-life education.
iii) Services: Skills training to the productive  Target population to be clearly identified and
sectors.                                       potential impact of programs demonstrated.
l____________________________________________  Subprojects must be executed by NGOs/CBOs.
iv) Services: Skills training for the disabled.  Target population to be clearly identified and
potential impact of programs demonstrated.
Subprojects must be executed by NGOs/CBOs.
4. Organizational Strengthening
Subproject Type                              Special Conditions
i) Technical assistance and training to government   Strong linkage with beneficiary groups must be
and non-governmental institutions in participatory    demonstrated. Support to be linked to specific
project identification and to subproject sponsors and  projects financed by the JSIF.
executing agencies to upgrade skills in preparation,
implementation and management of small-scale
community-based projects.



44
ANNEX D
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Objective
The technical assistance and training component is designed to strengthen the operational
capacity of the JSIF and improve the quality of its subprojects. Technical assistance and training
activities can be divided into two main categories: (i) institutional development and
management and (ii) subproject development and evaluation.
JSIF Institutional Development and Management
Computer Training: Local courses and expertise will be offered to train all JSIF technical and
support staff in the use of computers and the management information system used in the JSIF.
Management Information System: Local and international expertise will be hired as necessary
to refine the subproject cycle, unit cost and financial management components of the JSIF's
management information system.
Financial and Management Audits: The JSIF will hire independent, private auditors
acceptable to the Bank to produce the annual financial and management audits.
Study Tours: Once JSIF operations are underway, department and unit heads will travel to
other social investment funds to learn directly from their on-going experiences.
Subproject Development and Management
Promotions: To improve and increase the JSIF's outreach, local technical assistance will be
hired to design the promotional campaign, including producing informational materials and
organizing workshops.
Targeting: Technical assistance would be hired to review the poverty map and the JSIF's
demand management strategies to improve the targeting of JSIF-financed subprojects.
Participatory Needs Assessment/Project Identification: The JSIF will contract a long-tern
resident technical advisor to develop participatory techniques for community needs assessment
and project identification and disseminate these techniques to a range of organizations, including
Government's Social Development Commission, Parish Councils and NGOs/CBOs.
Social Analysis and Appraisal of Social Services Projects: The long-term resident technical
advisor will also refine the criteria that measure beneficiary participation and other social criteria
for JSIF's appraisal of subprojects; refine the criteria for appraising social services projects; and
train JSIF promotions and evaluation staff in techniques to evaluate social services projects.



45
Appraisal of Organizational Strengthening Projects: Local expertise will be hired to study
the organizational strengthening needs of subproject sponsors in identifying, preparing,
managing and supervising JSIF-financed subprojects and the resources available to these
organizations. The technical assistance would also develop criteria for appraising organizational
strengthening subprojects and train JSIF promotions and evaluation staff in applying these
criteria.
Gender: Local expertise will be hired to design criteria and strategies to ensure that the JSIF
reaches and positively impacts women.
Environmental Assessment Procedures: Local and/or international expertise would be hired
to develop environmental criteria for assessing JSIF-financed subprojects and develop mitigation
measures for subprojects with negative environmental impacts.
Unit Cost System: Local expertise will be hired to refine and update the unit cost system on a
regular basis.
Technical Audits: Local expertise will be hired to carry out annual technical audits of a sample
of subprojects to identify implementation constraints, assess the technical quality of JSIF-
financed subprojects, and provide information on the coverage of operational and maintenance
costs. The JSIF will adjust its procedures and eligibility priorities based on the audit findings.
New Subprojects: For each new type of subprojects to be added to the JSIF's Menu of Eligible
Subprojects, local or international expertise will be hired to provide assistance in the design of
eligibility and appraisal criteria and supervision procedures.
Beneficiary Assessments: The JSIF will contract local expertise to carry out beneficiary
assessments to receive direct, constructive and unbiased feedback on the impact of the
subprojects on the beneficiaries.
Impact Evaluations: The JSIF will hire local and/or international consultants to undertake
evaluations of the social and economic impact of specific subproject types.



MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING                                         ANNEX E
TIJIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING is made the4day of
d v, 1996 between the Government of Jamaica (hereinafter referred to as "the
Government") and the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (hereinafter referred to as "the
Fund").
WHEREAS the Government as part of its national poverty alleviation strategy has
established the Fund as a short term intervention;
WHEREAS the Government acknowledging that the Fund's efricacy and success are
dependent to a large extent on its ability to operate in a manner that allows it to act
quickly, Intends to grant the Fund special exemptions from a number of existing
Government policies and modalities.
WHEREAS an Operations Manual and a Financial and Administration Manual have
been created to govern the Fund and it is the intentiosa of the Fund to act in strict
compliance with these manuals.
The Parties therefore agree as follows:
1. The Government will, so long as the Fund renmins a Government company within
the meaning of the Financial Administration and Audit Act
(a)   exempt the Fund from the requirements of the Government's
Procurement and Contracts procedures, in particular from the
requirement to seek certain specific authorizations from the
Government Contracts Conunittee and the Cabinet for
expenditures up to a maximum of $5,000,000.00.
(b)   not bind the JSIF to pay its employees the salaries and wages
paid to civil servants by the Government of Jamaica
Provided that these obligations shall cease to be binding ir the Contractor General or the
Auditor General advises the Ministry of Finance that the Fund has repeatedly been in
breach of the applicable provisions of its Operations Manual.
2. Fund expenditures above J$ $5,000,000.00. shall be subject to approval of the Cabinet
and the Government shall ensure that the cabinet responds to the request expeditiously.
3. The exemption limit of J$ $5,000,000.00. referred to in paragraph I shall be subject to
modification agreed in writing by both parties.
4. The Government shall, if it establishes any Special Account(s) into which the World
Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, or any other multilateral and bilateral
rinancing agencies and donors transfer monies for the financing of the Fund's objects,
specify appropriate oMcers as signatories to such Special Account(s).
5.    The Fund shall ensure that the Special Account(s) operate as follows:
(a)   no withdrawal is made for any expenditure or any portion thereof
which is ineligible under the terms of any relevant agreement between
the Government and any multilateral and bilateral financing
agencies and donors;
(b)   where any withdrawal is made to cover the eligible portion of an
expenditure for which the ineligible portion is to be paid from funds
provided as part of the Government's contribution, the Fund shall not
pay either portion unless it can also pay the other portion;



(c)   whenever the Fund makes a withdrawal, the Managing Director of
the Fund shall immediately advise the Ministry of Finance in writing
of such withdrawal;
(d)   whenever the Fund needs to replenish the Special Account(s) it shall
request approval for replenishment for the Ministry of Finance; and
(e)   withdrawals shall not be made during any period In respect of which
the Fund has received written Instructions from the Ministry of
Finance prohibiting withdrawals.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first set
above written.
SIGNED for and on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA )                 <9_ 
by the Financial Secretary    )     FINANCIAL SECRETARY
In the presence of
WITNESS
SIGNED for and on behalf of the
JAMAICA SOCIAL                )
INVESTMENT FUND               )          , Dl  CTOR
by                Director,    )
in the presence of
WITNESS



46
ANNEX F
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Organizational Structure and Functions
Board of Direcors
Intemal tAucard
Evaluation Lit
Managing Drector
Managing Director
Legal Advisory Urit                MIS Unit
Operations Depatnt                                         Finance and
Adrniristratiun Departrnent
Promotions         Appraisal        Cortrading        Supervision        Amxo ts         Admin and FR
Division          Division          lvison            Divisioio         Division          Division



49
Board of Directors
*  Guide and supervise the JSIF's overall administration and operations
* Approve the JSIF's operating policies and procedures as detailed in the Operational Manual,
and any revisions to the Manual
* Approve the annual budget and workplan
* Approve the Annual Report and Financial Statements
* Appoint senior management
* Approve pay scales and remuneration packages for staff
* Approve applications for subproject financing
Managing Director
* Direct and administer the day-to-day operations
* Recruit, employ and administer staff
* Effect expenditures in accordance with Operational Manual and the approved budget
* Prepare annual work programs
* Report to the Board on activities of the JSIF
* Represent the JSIF in discussions with secured and potential financing sources
Internal Audit and Evaluation Unit
* Monitor financial, managerial and technical performance
* Report to Board on extent to which project is achieving objectives
- Monitor and report on performance indicators
- Coordinate external financial audit
- Conduct/oversee technical, impact and other evaluations
Legal Advisory Unit
* Oversee all legal aspects and procedures
* Provide legal advice to JSIF Departments throughout project cycle
- Prepare and revise contracts, agreements, etc.
* Advise on contract changes and cancellations
MIS Unit
Develop, maintain and update the Management Information System
* Determine technical specifications of computer equipment
* Manage internal and external information flows
* Train JSIF staff in use of the MIS
Operations Department Manager
Oversee the activities of the Promotions, Appraisal, Contracting and Supervision Divisions
Assist Managing Director in developing annual work programs
Ensure project processing procedures are consistent with Operational Manual
* Monitor the performance of the divisions against programmed targets
Promotions Division
* Design, implement and update targeting strategies and maintain poverty targeting systems
* Conduct outreach and promotional activities
Provide or oversee provision of technical assistance in project preparation
Design and implement participatory project identification strategies and provide training to
relevant agencies
* Undertake project identification missions
* Register projects and screen project applications
* Submit projects to Appraisal Division



50
Appraisal Division
* Establish priority ranking of projects
* Conduct site appraisal visits
* Carry out social, technical, financial, economic, environmental appraisal of projects
* Design and maintain standard unit cost system
* Cost projects
* Prepare appraisal reports for submission to Management Committee and Board of Directors
* Inform project sponsors of Board or Management Committee decision
* Update project appraisal criteria
Contracting Division
* With Appraisal and Supervision Divisions, prepare bidding documents
* Select executing agency/contractor
* With Legal Advisory Unit, prepare standard contracts and agreements between JSIF, project
sponsor and contractor
* Maintain contractor and consultant registers
* Track performance guarantees
Supervision Division
*  Appoint and supervis  external supervisors
* Oversee technical quality of works
* Conduct supervision site visits
* Revise project implementation schedules
* Prepare supervision progress reports
* Monitor counterpart contributions of project sponsors/beneficiaries
* Authorize disbursements
* Coordinate with Legal Advisory Unit on contract changes and cancellations
* Prepare and authorize handover agreements
Finance and Administration Department Manager
* Oversee the activities of the Accounts and Human Resources Divisions
* Ensure finance and accounting procedures are consistent with Operational Manual
* Operate JSIF's bank accounts with the Managing Director
* Prepare all financial reports to local and international financing agencies
Accounts Division
* Maintain accounting system
* Prepare accounting and financing statements and reports
* Formulate budgets
* Control flow of funds, bank accounts, deposits and disbursements
* Process payroll
* Request funds
* Respond to recommendations of internal and external audits
Administration and Human Resources Division
* Procure office equipment, vehicles and supplies
* Oversee maintenance of building, equipment and vehicles
* Draft position descriptions
* Prepare TORs for consultants
* Coordinate technical assistance
*  Recruit and employ personnel
* Manage performance evaluation process



ANNEX G
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
DRAFT SUB-PROJECT CYCLE
Targebg Sat
Promoton atJ5lF
Actvbvim 
|Partiaipator PrvIw         Prepare Project
IdentfcUAplati=on                            -Applicantw
I                     ~~~~~~~~Applicant
PROMOTIONS                                                        ISponsor
PROMOTIONS           r   ~~~~Registration of |     Submit Project    L
DIVISION                      |     Appicabn                  Applicabon
A    Screenkg fA sl             Rejectoel
_  E jll                  Reformulation
_As t
Submi tPretec
Sectoraoad oa Direcjor          - -o ----------- Line Ministry
                   -               I
I Ranking d t
Appcaonso
Prepintnw Deso
ProR A  Site A al          reject
CANTRACTSA                     |         VIOuta
DIVISION                                Vion
AppraLqW Report 
Board of Directoirs or           P>rtect
Designated Comnmittee  .~Appl
Clearance 1rom Ex |n
|Fu-4M Agency
Nqolfcbon do|
Sponsor
Preparation af
Proctrement Do rts
CONTRACTS                        |      id/Quotaim
DIVISION                                Evatuation
|PreparabOn of
Contrsac



Legai ana zupervibiu.i
Departments                Documents and Contra
. .   .   . . . . . .
Management Committee -         |  Award of Conact
Disbursement ot   |     Imptementation            Contractor
Funds                  of Project       -    Consultant
Technical SupeNsvion           On Site              External Project
of Projects             Supervision            Supervisor
SUPERVISION                             Request Progress                                   Sponsor and
DIVISION                                   Payments        ------- ---- Extemal Supervisc-
Authonsaton of
Progress Payments
Completion and   I                               Project Sponsor
Handover                 - -                   Contractor
I
eneficiary Assessment
INTERNAL AUDIT                             Impact Evaluabon



53
ANNEX H
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Performance Indicators
NO.                                 INDICATOR                                    TARGET         PERIOD
1   Amount of financing committed
2    Number of subproject requests (urban/rural)
3    Number of subproject requests that meet JSIF eligibility criteria (urban/rural)
4    Total number of promoters
5    Total number of projects appraised
6    Total number of appraisers
7    Number of subprojects appraised per appraiser                                            per month
8    Timespan between subproject registration and appraisal
9    Number of subprojects reappraised
10   Number of subprojects approved (urban/rural)
Social infrastructure subprojects
Economic infrastructure subprojects
Social services subprojects
Organizations Strengthening subprojects
11   Timespan between appraisal and approval
12 2 Number of contracting officers
13 3 Number of subprojects with contracts/Number of approved subprojects
14 4 Timespan between contract signing and first disbursement
15  |Number of subprojects under supervision
1 6   Number of internal supervisors
1 7   Number of subprojects under supervision/Number of internal supervisors
1   |Number of external supervisors
19 9 Number of subprojects under supervision/Number of external supervisors
20   Percentage of subproject contracts modified due to cost overruns
21   Percentage of subprojects suspended/canceled due to poor performance    _
22   Number of subprojects completed
23   Number of subprojects completed on-time
24   Cost of subprojects completed
25   Timespan between approval and first disbursement
26   Timespan between first disbursement and subproject completion
27   Ratio of disbursements to commitments
28   Number and Cost of contracts awarded through national competitive bidding
29   Number and Cost of contracts awarded through local shopping
30   Number and Cost of contracts awarded through direct shopping
31   Number of contracts with World Bank prior review
32   Total cost of contracts with World Bank prior review
33   Total cost of subprojects approved (urban/rural)
34   Total number of subproject approved/Total cost of subproject approved
Social infrastructure subprojects
Economic infrastructure subprojects
Social services subprojects
Organizational strengthening subprojects
35   Value of cost overruns
36   Value of cost overruns/Total value of approved costs
37   Total overhead costs/Total project cost



54
NO.                                 INDICATOR                                |   TARGET    r  PERIOD
38   Total disbursements
Government of Jamaica1
World Bank                                                                    .
Inter-American Development Bank
39   Sponsor/beneficiary contribution as percentage of total project cost
40   Value of subprojects suspended/canceled due to poor performance
___  UWT~~PARTh~  ~~flQN.A.~$U$TAW14A.  ..Y.                         .     ........ 
.. tUt.PwIg.A.  ON R A.S INt-..              - W     ---E-itt-E-.;
41   Proportion of all subprojects sponsored:                                                             -
community associations                                                        i
NGOs
Parish Councils
Central Government                                                                      -
42   Number of community associations sponsoring more than one subproject
43   Proportion of subprojects with in-kind community contribution
44   Proportion of subproject requiring ministry no-objection
l 4   N t   t   .  #   M   -  --:lN  1B t  -   - $--; i   :~..    i--E!  ....... . ....-E   iE .:E;  ........-- ..... -  -0 .-   . .. - ..;:-.-0    ..:E:  i; .g:: :  l.....
45   Percentage of resources invested by type of subproject                                 I
Social infrastructure subprojects
Economic infrastructure subprojects                                                        -
Social services subprojects
Organizational strengthening subprojects                                      I
46   Percentage of resources invested by sector
Education
Health
Water and Sanitation
Feeder Roads
Training
Counseling
47   Number of structures constructed, refurbished or equipped by type
48   Number of training and counseling courses completed                                    l
49   Number of organizations strengthened through assistance in:
project identification (rural/urban)
project preparation {rural/urban)
project implementation (rural/urban)
50   Percentage of resources invested by poverty quartile                                   _.
51   Percentage of resources invested in urban (rural) areas
52   Number of direct beneficiaries by agegroup (<_25/>_25)r-
57   Number of direct beneficiaries (completed projects)                                    I _
Social infrastructure subprojects g
Economic infrastructure subprojects                                 |_
DSocial services subprojects                                     .___
COrganizatonal strengthenng subprojects 
54   Number of direct beneficiaries by poverty quartile                      __
55   Number of direct beneficiaries in urban (rural) areas
56   Number of direct beneficiaries by gender
57   Average cost per beneficiary by type of subproject 
58   Number of person-months employment generated by gender!
Approved subprojects                                                                  _.
Disbursing subprojectsI 
Completed subprojectsI
59   Percentage of labour costs spent on local labouri



55
ANNEX I
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Evaluation and Supervision Plan
Approximate             Activity               Responsible Institution(s)
Date
April 1997    Technical Audit             JSIF-contracted consultants
September 1997  Annual Portfolio Review     JSIF, World Bank IDB
December 1997  Beneficiary Assessment       JSIF-contracted consultants
April 1998    Technical Audit            JSIF-contracted consultants
June 1998    Impact Evaluation           JSIF-contracted consultants
September 1998  Mid-Term Review             World Bank, IDB, donors and JSIF
December 1998  Beneficiary Assessment       JSIF-contracted consultants
June 1999    Impact Evaluation           JSIF-contracted consultants
September 1999  Annual Portfolio Review    JSIF, World Bank and IDB
September 2000  Final Portfolio Review      JSIF, World Bank, IDB and donors



AWIE J1
SOCAL IrVET FUND PROJECT
D1LW1  -   Come
(uss Owne)
YEAR 1: 1997               YEAR 2: 19979                  YEAR 3: 199199               YEAR 4: 199W0                     TOTAL
Local   Foen      Total    Local    Forailp    TOtal      Local    Fmor       Total    Local   Forsn    TotW       Local   Forn        Totl
L   JSIF   IUTIONDL SUPPOtT
Ssi  wid Fee                                 1.257       0    1.257    1.483            0    1,483     1,28          0    1,528    1,410         0    1,410    5,678         0      5,678
Vedbe mNd Equptr                               83      273       356       20         104      124         0         0        0         0        0        0       103      377        480
np  " l  E   Nxper                            395       35       431      395          39      434       395        39      434       400       39      440    1.587       152       1,738
Ted lAsmlar" eW Tanng                         301       349      650      121         324      445       125       s5       180       113       12      125       660      740       1.400
S bahwhumbe Support                          2,037     656    2,693    2.020          466    2,406     2,048        94    2,142    1.923        52    1,974    8.027    1,268       9,295
IL      F  S aROJECTS
socias k*mlruckw                             1,931    1,816    3.747    4,766       4,123    8,889     4,766     4,123    8.889    4.273    3,710    7.963   15,736   13,773       29,509
Ecaomnc k*W nvucwm                            454      245       699    1,237        ses    1.902      1,244       670     1,915      873      470    1,343    3,606    2,051       5,9
Socd  Sevice                                  258       64       322      a66         167      833       666       167      833       637      159      798    2,227       557      2,764
Ofg0tlone Sbungied*g                          292       73       365      583         146      729       583       146      729       583      146      729    2,042       511      2,553
SubEowSub.wojeck                            2.934    2,198    5,133    7,252        5,101   12,354     7,260     5,106   12.366    6,367    4,485   10,852   23,814   16,891       40.706
TOTALPROJECTCOST                            4,972    2,855    7,826    9,212        5,s6    14,840     9,306     5,2w0   14,507    8,289    4,S37   12,827   31.641    18,159      50,oo
Pag 56



57
ANNEX K
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Methods
Categories of           JSIF              JSIF         World Bank       World Bank
Expenditure         Procurement      Disbursement        Review        Disbursement
Method           Method        Requirement    Documentation
Civil Works
<$25,000'               Direct contracting  tranches based    ex-post review    SOEs
on physical      of subproject
progress         summaries
<$ 100,000              Three quotations   tranches based    ex-post review    SOEs
on physical      of sample
progress
>$100,000               NCB               advance plus     prior review    SOEs/full
reimbursement    over $200,000   documentation
of expenditures                  over $200,000
Equipment and Goods
<$2,000'                Direct contracting  reimbursement    ex-post review    SOEs
of expenditures
<$25,000                Local shopping    reimbursement    ex-post review    SOEs
of expenditures
$25,000<x<$ 150,000    NCB               reimbursement    prior review     SOEs/full
of expenditures    over $100,000   documentation
over $100,000
>$ 150,000             ICB               reimbursement    prior review    full documentation
of expenditures
Services (TA and        WB guidelines on  tranches         prior review >    SOEs/full
training)               consultants                        $25,000         documentation
over $25,000
NGO-sponsored and       Other             advance plus     prior review    SOEs/full
executed subprojects                     reimbursement    over $25,000    documentation
of expenditures                  over $25,000
Consultant Services and
Training
Firms                   WB guidelines on  tranches         prior review >    SOEs/full
consultants                        $100,000        documentation
over $ 100,000
Individuals             WB guidelines on  tranches         prior review >    SOEs/full
consultants                        $50,000         documentation
over $50,000
JSIF Vehicles and       LIB              reimbursement    prior review    full documentation
Computers                                of expenditures
JSIF Operating          Guidelines not    reimbursement    audit           SOEs
Expenses                applicable        of expenditures
IDirect contracting would only apply in exceptional circumstances as outlined in the Operational Manual
and not to all subprojects under these thresholds.



58
ANNEX L
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester               Disbursements (USS million)
Semester        Cumulative        Percentage a/
FY1997
Jul- Dec 96                 1.5               1.5               8%
Jan-Jun 97                  1.0               2.5               13%
FY1998
Jul- Dec 97                 3.0               5.5               28%
Jan - Jun 98                3.5               9.0               45%
FY1999
Jul- Dec 98                 3.0               12.0              60%
Jan -Jun 99                 3.0               15.0              75%
FY2000
Jul- Dec 99                 2.0               17.0              85%
Jan-Jun 00                  1.5              18.5              93%
FY2001
Jul- Dec 00                 1.5               20.0             100%
a/ Disbursement project for the Guatemala Social Investment Fund Project used as a
model as no standard disbursement profile is available for social fimd projects.



59
ANNEX L
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Disbursement Allocations
(US$)
Category                                 Amount       Percentage
1. JSIF Subprojects (Grants)               15,330,000  100% of disbursements by JSIF
for eligible subprojects
2. JSIF Institutional Support
a) Operating Expenses 1/                  1,080,000  100% of eligible expenditures
b) Consultant Services and Training 2/   3,350,000  100% of eligible expenditures
for consultant services, travel
expense, per diem
c) Goods                                   240,000  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory local
expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
TOTAL                                      20,000,000
1/ Operating expenses include administrative staff salaries, rent, travel, utilities and minor office
supplies.
2/ Consultant services and training includes JSIF technical staff shared, on a parallel not joint
basis, between the Bank and IDB in proportion to their overall financing (67:33); and external
technical assistance and training for JSIF staff.



60
ANNEX M
JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Terms of Reference - External Financial Audit
Background
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) is a temporary, autonomous Government-sponsored
institution incorporated under the Companies Act designed to finance small-scale, community-based social
and economic infrastructure and social services projects in poor urban and rural areas. A detailed
Operational Manual governs the activities and procedures of the JSIF. The JSIF is financed by the
Government of Jamaica, loans provided by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank
and a grant from the Government of the Netherlands.
The JSIF is located in Kingston and is headed by a Managing Director who is in charge of day-to-
day activities and is accountable to a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister of Finance. The
Finance and Administration Department, headed by the Director of Finance and Administration, is
responsible for proper accounting of funds received by the JSIF.
Objective
The objective of the financial audit is to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion on
the financial position of the JSIF at the end of each fiscal year and of the funds received and expenditures
for the accounting period ending on that date, as presented by the financial statements of the project, and as
well as an opinion on the Special Accounts and the Statements of Expenditures.
The project accounts, which provide the basis for the preparation of financial statements, are those
established to reflect the financial transactions in respect of the project, as maintained by the JSIF. The
Special Accounts are special bank accounts set up by the JSIF to facilitate the speedy disbursement of the
World Bank's and other donors/lenders' portions of the project expenditures.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with the International Standards of Auditing and will
include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary. The auditor should indicate any material
differences from international accounting standards, where relevant, and their effect on the annual financial
statements. In conducting the audit, special attention should be paid to the following:
a) All external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
which the financing was provided. Relevant financing agreements are [insert name of loan
agreements];
b) Counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
which they were provided;



61
c) Works, goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant
financing agreements;
d) All necessary supporting documents, records and accounts have been kept in respect of all
project expenditures, including expenditures reported via Special Accounts (SAs) or
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Clear linkages should exist between the books of account
and reports presented to the World Bank and other donors/lenders;
e) Special Account(s) have been maintained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant
financing agreements; and
f) Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with consistent applied International
Accounting Standards and give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the project at
mm/dd/yy and of resources and expenditures for the year ended on that date.
Project Financial Statements
The Project Financial Statements should include:
a) a Summary of Funds received, showing the World Bank, project funds from other
donors/lenders and counterpart funds separately;
b) a Summary of Expenditures shown under the main project headings and by main categories
of expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; and
c) a Balance Sheet showing Accumulated Funds of the Project, bank balances, other assets of
the project and project liabilities, if any.
As an annex to the Project Financial Statements, the auditor should prepare a reconciliation
between the amounts shown as "received by the project from the World Bank" and that shown as being
disbursed by the World Bank. As part of that reconciliation, the auditor should indicate the mechanism for
the disbursement, i.e. Special Accounts, Statements of Expenditure or direct disbursement.
Statements of Expenditure
In addition to the audit of the Project Financial Statements, the auditor is required to audit all
SOEs used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply such tests
and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures should be
carefully compared for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreement(s) and with reference to the
Staff Appraisal Report for guidance when considered necessary. Where ineligible expenditures are
identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed against, these should be
noted separately by the auditor. Annexed to the Project Financial Statements should be a schedule listing
individual SOE withdrawal applications by special reference number and amount. The total withdrawals
under the SOE procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of World Bank disbursements
described above.
Special Accounts
In conjunction with the audit of the Project Financial Statements, the auditor is also required to
audit the activities of the Special Account(s) associated with the Project. Special Accounts usually
comprise:
* deposits and replenishments received from the World Bank;
* payments substantiated by withdrawal applications;



62
* interest that my be earned from the balances and which belong to the borrower; and
*  the remaining balances at the end of each fiscal year.
The auditor must form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the World Bank's
procedures and the balance of the Special Account as year-end. The audit should examine the eligibility
and correctness of the financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of
such a period, the operation and use of the SA in accordance with the financing agreement, and the
adequacy of internal controls for this type of disbursement mechanism. The Special Account(s) are
referred to in [cite Schedule] of the relevant financing agreements.
Audit Opinion
Besides a primary opinion of the Project Financial Statements, the annual audit report of the
Project Accounts should include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of
expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which the Bank can rely on SOEs as a
basis for loan disbursement. The financial statements, including the audit report, should be received by the
World Bank no later than four months after the end of the auditing period to which the audit refers. The
auditor should submit the report to the borrower's designated agent rather than to any staff member of the
project entity. The agent should then promptly forward two copies of the audited accounts and report to
the World Bank.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter", in which the
auditor will:
a) comment on the accounting records, systems and controls that were examined during the
course of the audit;
b) identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendation for their improvement;
c) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on intern and external matters affecting such
compliance;
d) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a
significant impact on the implementation of the project; and
e) bring to the borrower's attention any other matters that the auditors consider pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also be
obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the World Bank and of amounts disbursed under (special
other donor, loan or grant). The World Bank Task Manager can assist in obtaining these confirmations.
It is highly desirable that the auditor become familiar wit the Bank's Guidelines on Financial
Reporting andAuditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank, which summarizes the Bank's financial
reporting and auditing requirements. The auditor should also be familiar with the Bank's Disbursement
Handbool Both documents will be provided by the World Bank Task Manager.



63
Terms of Reference - External Management Audit
Background
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) is a temporary, autonomous Government-sponsored
institution incorporated under the Companies Act designed to finance small-scale, community
based social and economic infrastructure and social services projects in poor urban and rural
areas. A detailed Operational Manual governs the activities and procedures of the JSIF. The
JSIF is financed by the Government of Jamaica, loans provided by the World Bank and the Inter-
American Development Bank and a grant from the Government of the Netherlands.
Objective
A management audit is a systematic procedure for analyzing and appraising the overall
performance of the management of a business or organization. It involves a critical appraisal of
all managerial operations, policies, procedures, and the quality of management. Its objective is
to ascertain whether the resources of an organization are used by its management in the most
economic way to produce the maximum possible result in the shortest possible time in
accordance with its goals.
The Management Audit is a helpful extension to the financial audit, and deals with the
following:
* efficiency and effectiveness of management in achievement of company objectives;
* budgetary control systems;
* performance of the management of the finance, accounting, marketing, and production
functions.
The management audit must determine if the project is being executed in accordance with the
"three Es" - economy (doing things cheap), efficiency (doing things right), and effectiveness
(doing the right things).
Scope
The management audit will examine the internal control system. Internal control may be defined
as the whole system of controls, financial and otherwise, established by the management in order
to carry on the business of the company in an orderly manner, safeguard its assets and secure, as
far as possible, the accuracy and reliability of its records. It will be observed that the concept of
internal control goes beyond financial and accounting matters and the custody of company assets
to include controls designed to improve operational efficiency and adherence to company
policies.
The management audit will focus on the operational controls versus the internal accounting
controls (i.e. those that are relevant to the expression of an audit opinion on the financial
accounts). In conducting the management audit, special attention should be paid to the following:
Organization and Human Resources
Organization - The overall management and departmental structure should be clearly defined,
preferably by organizational charts and written job descriptions, showing authorities, duties, and
lines of responsibility. Care should be taken to ensure that the analysis articulates what actually
exists, and what is actually being achieved. The aim of this aspect of the examination is to form



64
an opinion of the effectiveness, efficiency and appropriateness of the structure, functions, span of
control and responsibilities as a means of achieving the company's objectives.
Authority levels - Adequate authority levels should be established and set out for the initiation or
approval of transactions. Watch for the danger of breakdown in acceptance of authority at any
level.
Competence of staff - Personal appraisals of the staff should be made with a view to forming an
opinion of aptitude, ability, industry and integrity. Do staff understand, and are they competent
to carry out the work entrusted to them. The extent of co-ordination of executives and the degree
of harmony among them as a team is also to be considered. The quality of each director must be
assessed and the value of his contribution to the board be evaluated, bearing in mind the needs of
the company within specified areas. Also, the effectiveness of the directors working together as
a team should be considered.
Financial accounting and reporting
To have assurance that accounting records properly reflect what they are designed to record, the
management audit needs to assess the adequacy of the systems of internal control goveming the
financial management system, with particular reference to the structure of the financial
accounting and reporting system.
The audit shall also assess if the objectives of internal controls are being met, that is that the
system not only maintains an adequate method of processing accounting data, but also
safeguards the JSIF against possible financial loss due to fraud or error. The audit should form
an opinion on whether:
* the JSIF receives and enters in its accounting records, all the income or revenue to which it is
entitled;
- all expenditure is properly authorized;
* all assets are properly recorded and safeguarded;
* all liabilities are properly recorded and provision is made for known or expected losses;
* the accounting records provide a reliable basis for the preparation of accounts.
Operations Management Practices
As a follow up to the financial accounting and reporting system, the management audit should
also give an opinion on whether the principles of internal accounting controls are in place -
specifically (a) basic controls and (b) the disciplines over basic controls.
(a)    Basic Controls - should be designed to ensure that the JSIF's transactions are valid (i.e.
proper, bona fide and authorized) and that they are recorded completely and accurately in the
books.
(b)    Disciplines over Basic Controls - the management audit should examine:
(i)    Supervisory controls;
(ii)    Separation of duties; and
(iii)   Custodial controls.



65
(I)    Supervisory Controls
The auditor will provide an opinion on the following:
(a)    Final approval of documents after they have been subjected to the relevant basic controls
but before further processing takes place (e.g. final approval of payroll before the amounts are
distributed).
(b)    Review by a responsible official of the operation of basic control techniques (e.g. the
inspection of reconciliations etc.)
Supervisory controls should only be regarded by the auditor as effective where the signature of
the supervising official exists to evidence the control function.
(II)    Separation of Duties
The auditor should ensure that:
(a)    there is a well defined division of responsibilities between departments, sections and
individuals, so that no one person handles a transaction from beginning to end. In particular,
there should be a division of responsibilities in respect of each transaction for::
(i)    authorizing or initiating the transaction;
(ii)   the physical custody and control of assets related to the transactions;
(iii)   recording the transaction in the accounting records.
The duties of the individuals exercising these different functions should be clearly defined and
where practicable, set out in writing, together with the extent of there respect of their respective
authorities.
(b)    Rotation of duties - where practical, arrangements should be made for the duties of staff
to be rotated so that no one person deals with one aspect of the company's accounting procedures
on a continuous basis.
(III) Custodial Controls
The auditor should give an opinion regarding the controls designed to ensure that assets
(including significant documents such as contracts and cheques) are maintained securely. These
controls include physical arrangements such as the use of safes, use of locked fencing for
valuable items of stock and safe custody procedures for title deeds and investment.
General
The objective of the management audit is to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion
on the financial viability, financial condition, stewardship and accountability, expenditure
allocations, balancing of inflows and outflows and financial compliance with budgets of the
JSIF. The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence and any other
information associated with the project deemed necessary by the auditor.



66
ANNEX N
GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Documents in Project Files
Armenia Social Investment Fund, 1995. Operational Manual (Final Draft).
Carvalho, S. 1994. Social Funds: Guidelinesfor Design and Implementation, Human
Resources Development and Operations Policy Working Paper 34.
Cummins and Sinyangwe, 1994. Regional Officers Manualfor the Microprojects Unit in
Zambia.
Cummins and Sinyangwe, 1994. Administration Manualfor the Microprojects Unit in Zambia.
Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund, 1994. Operational Manual (draft).
Ghopal, G. and A. Marc, 1994. World Bank-Financed Projects with Community Participation:
Procurement and Disbursement Issues, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 265.
Glaessner, P. et al 1994. Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds: The Latin American
Experience, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 261.
Government of Jamaica, 1995. National Policy Towards Poverty Eradication.
Government of Jamaica, 1995. National Poverty Eradication Program: A Community-Based
Partnership Approach.
Grosh, M. 1990. What Should Social Funds Finance? Portfolio Mix, Targeting and Efficiency
Criteria, Human Resources Division, Technical Department, Latin America and the Caribbean.
JSIF, 1996. Articles and Memorandum of Association (draft).
JSIF (McFarlane, D.), 1996. Assessment of the NGO/CBO Community.
JSIF (Prescod, M.), 1995. Institutional Options for the Jamaica Social Investment Fund
JSIF (Rodrigues, S.), 1995. Review of Organizations: Environmental Foundation of Jamaica,
Social and Economic Support Program, Kingston Restoration Company and Social Development
Commission.
Khadiagala, L. 1995. Social Funds: Strengths, Weaknesses, and Conditions for Success, ESP
Discussion Paper Series.



67
MacDonald, C. and P. Sollis. 1995. Analysis Issues in Social Investment Funds, consultants
report prepared for IDB.
Marc, A., C. Graham and M. Schacter. 1995. Social Action Programs and Social Funds: A
Review of Design and Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa, World Bank Discussion Paper No.
274.
Moser, C. and J. Holland, 1995. A Participatory Study of Urban Poverty and Violence in
Jamaica.
Planning Institute of Jamaica, 1996. Poverty Mapping: A Report on the Spatial Representation
of Deprivation in Jamaica.
Planning Institute of Jamaica, 1995. A Preliminary Evaluation of the Programs/Projects Aimed
at Alleviating the Impact on the Poor of Structural Adjustment, Liberalization and
Divestment/Privatization.
Schmidt, M. and A. Marc. 1995. Participation in Social Funds, Environment Department Paper
No. 004.
SIMAP, 1992. Operations Manual.
Siri, G. 1992. The Social Investment Funds in Latin America: A Critical Appraisal, consultant
report prepared for the Swedish International Development Authority.
Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia, 1995. Finance, Administration and Personnel
Manual (draft).
Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia, 1995. Project Guidelines (draft).
Vivian, J. 1994. Social Safety Nets and Adjustment in Developing Countries, Occasional Paper
No. 1, World Summit for Social Development, UNRISD.
Webb, A., K.W. Lee and A. Sant'Anna. 1995. The Participation of Nongovernmental
Organizations in Poverty Alleviation, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 295.
Workshop on Social Investment Funds and NGO Participation, December 4-6, 1995. Workshop
Proceedings.






MAP SECTION






I    I *                      25tIII
-25     as U.S. A. 80T    7 2      s                         773(Y                            77*o0C                            7683
BATHE                               Ele _                                 A ItIio
BAHAMAS                          F Elevattone                           J  A      A       I C
Feet               Meters
MEXICO          CUBA                  DOWNCAN             5908       ..' 1800                   Main Arterial Roads              0    Selected Towns
/ 'EP 2J                 ti
HAITI                      2954   g>        o 900                Main Secondary Roads    (             Parish Capitals
f BELIZE    JAMAICA                                     1477           450                   Main Ports                        i j    National Capital
HONDURAS                        International               591           180 *                 International Airports                 Parish Boundaries
_Lv-AD NICARAGiUA         rs70                            0           0              *      Region Boundaries                      County Boundaries
8 as'     I80
7800r
CORNWALL eL
FALK40UTH                                                                                         lef 
Watt   S  oldT ANNleAnntt
-18 3a      LUCEA UOT(iO _ot*                                                    B\< AYo 113F
sorina   ~~ + ; =   4 d    '-; _r -MIDDLESE
Salt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ofalore
Spring                                                                               PORT~~4Wll9sted       P~~LN
' so,Wakefield AMAROld                                      RoAl Ba
London  t                                           H                     ST M,R ANT
WattA-MARcm Ba                          A                          BAa
WEs LRock \Oint 0          -- , -R
N         10                                                         wn0' A0 40                CA  Ek                         SURREY
sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             Moneng-er  .     ov/es  i . N>         t         aS 
*         -   -   m-~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ag                                                                                  .-,          F i'
rn~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ru
(4    10    0         30    485* wb K.r
LA11Bao r.e. 
iP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLAEV 10    CA8 YiER                                                              Srt tH       S    -      a;oa   - ;-     
1 ,- r                                                        Clrd.,









IMAGING
Report No:       15615 JM
Type: SAR



