Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4088-JM
                             Project Agreement
                      (Social Investment Fund Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                      JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
                           Dated October 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4088-JM
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT
FUND (JSIF).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Jamaica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that JSIF agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and JSIF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available, on a grant basis, to JSIF on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
     WHEREAS JSIF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
Page  2
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) JSIF declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering, technical and environmental standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with JSIF's
Articles and the Operational Manual.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, JSIF shall
enter into an agreement (the Sponsor Agreement) with the Subproject
Sponsor in accordance with the procedures and under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, those referred
to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JSIF shall not
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any
Sponsor Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  JSIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement, JSIF shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with the Project indicators and targets set forth in
the Operational Manual and in the corresponding annual progress
reports mentioned in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, respectively,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof.
     Section 2.05.  JSIF shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
JSIF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, assigning, abrogating, terminating, waiving or failing to
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06.  (a) JSIF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  JSIF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
JSIF of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
     Section 2.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.06 of this Agreement, JSIF shall: (a) not later than six months
after the Effective Date furnish to the Bank, for its approval, a
draft of the strategy referred to in Part B.2 of the Project; and
(b) after receiving the Bank's approval of such strategy, promptly
implement it as approved by the Bank.
     Section 2.08.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, JSIF shall not later than fifteen
working days after the end of each calendar month during Project
Page  3
implementation, starting in January 1997, prepare and furnish to the
Bank monthly progress reports, based on the information to be provided
by the management information system referred to in Section 6.01 (d)
of the Loan Agreement and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, with respect to the progress made by JSIF in the carrying
out of the Project during the calendar month preceding the date of
presentation of the corresponding report.
     Section 2.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions and Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
JSIF shall not later than August 31 of each year during Project
implementation, starting in 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank
an annual progress report of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank may reasonably request with respect to the progress made by
JSIF in the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 2.10.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.06 of this Agreement, JSIF shall not later than September 30 of
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1997, review
jointly with the Bank the progress made by JSIF in: (a) the carrying
out of the Project; and (b) achieving the objectives of the Project.
Each such review shall also focus on discussing the corresponding
progress reports referred to in Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of this
Agreement.  As part of each such review, the Bank may require that
JSIF prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make
adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, JSIF shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty days after the con-
clusion of each such review and shall thereafter carry out such
action plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.11.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Sections 2.06 and 2.10 of this Agreement, JSIF shall on the earlier
of the dates on which Grants in an aggregate amount equal to
$7,500,000 have been committed (pursuant to paragraphs 4 (a) and (b)
of Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) or the date twenty four
months  after the Effective Date, review jointly with the Bank and
the Borrower the performance of JSIF in the carrying out of Part A of
the Project and discuss the matters listed in annex C to the
Implementation Letter.
     (b)  If as a result of the review referred to in paragraph (a)
above, the Bank determines that the progress achieved by JSIF in
carrying out Part A of the Project is not satisfactory (based on the
indicators set forth in the Operational Manual), the Bank may cease
the approval of applications or the authorization of withdrawals
under paragraphs 4 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement until the Bank shall be satisfied based on evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that JSIF is carrying out such Part of the Project
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that if such
cessation continues for more than sixty days after the conclusion of
such review the Bank  may, by notice to JSIF and the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project
or any part thereof.
     Section 2.12.  JSIF shall: (a) update semi-annually during Project
implementation, starting six months after the Effective Date, the Unit
Cost System in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter,
not later than thirty days after the conclusion of each update furnish
to the Bank the updated information.
                               ARTICLE III
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) JSIF shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition, including separate accounts to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures of JSIF in respect of the Project.
     (b)  JSIF shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
Page  4
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of JSIF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which JSIF has
complied with the obligation set forth in Section 9.07 (c) of the
General Conditions.
     Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE V
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For JSIF:
          Jamaica Social Investment Fund
          10 St. Lucia Crescent
          Kingston 5
          Jamaica
     Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
Page  5
on behalf of JSIF, or by JSIF on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by JSIF's Managing Director or such
other person or persons as such Managing Director shall designate in
writing, and JSIF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                    JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
                    By  /s/ Wesley Hughes
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                     of Grants and Sponsor Agreements
Section I:     Grants
1.   To qualify for a Grant: (a) a JSIF Subproject must be appraised by
JSIF in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual; (b) a JSIF Subproject must be environmentally sound
as determined by the assessment to be carried out by JSIF in accordance
with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; (c) JSIF must
have prepared and furnished to the Bank, an action plan satisfactory to
the Bank, to mitigate any potential negative environmental impact
determined under the assessment referred to in (b) herein; and (d) a
Subproject Sponsor must have met the eligibility criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual.
2.   Each Grant will finance up to 95% of the total cost of the JSIF
Subproject. Subproject Sponsors will ensure the financing of at least
5% of the total cost of the JSIF Subproject in the manner referred to
in paragraph (b) of Section II of this Schedule.
3.   No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a JSIF
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless:
     (a)  the Grant for such JSIF Subproject (other than a Free-Limit
Grant) shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received the application and information required
under paragraph 4 (a) of this Section in respect of such Grant, with
the exception of such expenditures under Grants made prior to the date
of this Agreement as referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement; or
Page  6
     (b)  the Grant for such JSIF Subproject shall have been a Free-
Limit Grant for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under paragraph 4 (b)
of this Section in respect of such Free-Limit Grant, with the excep-
tion of such expenditures under Grants made prior to the date of this
Agreement as referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Grant (other than a Free-Limit Grant) to
the Bank for approval, JSIF shall furnish to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) information on
the Subproject Sponsor and Beneficiaries and the appraisal and
environmental assessment of the JSIF Subproject (as mentioned in para-
graph 1 (a) and (b) of this Section), including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) a copy of the corresponding Sponsor Agreement; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by JSIF for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-Limit Grant shall contain:
(i) a summary description of the JSIF Subproject, the Subproject
Sponsor and the Beneficiary, including a description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Grant.
     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the
Bank on or before June 30, 2000.
Section II:    Sponsor Agreement
     Each Sponsor Agreement shall, inter alia, contain:
     (a)  the obligation of JSIF to carry out, on behalf of the Sub-
project Sponsor, the JSIF Subproject with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and
environmental standards;
     (b)  the obligation of the Subproject Sponsor to ensure the
financing of at least 5% of the total cost of the JSIF Subproject,
such financing to be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii)
through the provision of labor; or (iv) by means of any combination
thereof;
     (c)  the obligation of JSIF to carry out the action plan referred
to in paragraph 1 (c) of Section I of this Schedule in accordance with
its terms;
     (d)  the right of the Subproject Sponsor to monitor the JSIF
Subproject; and
     (e)  the right of JSIF to suspend or terminate the right of the
Subproject Sponsor to benefit from the proceeds of the respective
Grant upon failure by the Subproject Sponsor to perform any of its
obligations under the corresponding Sponsor Agreement.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Page  7
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other
than vehicles and computer equipment) shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (other than vehicles
and computer equipment) shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Computer equipment and vehicles shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods (other than computer equipment and vehicles) estimated
to cost more than $25,000 equivalent but less than $150,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (c)  All procurement of goods and works under this Part C.2 shall
be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
3.   International and National Shopping
     Goods (other than computer equipment and vehicles) estimated to
cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     (a)  Goods to be financed under Grants which should either: (i)
be procured as an extension of an existing contract; or (ii) must be
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing
equipment; or (iii) are of a proprietary nature; or (iv) are required
to respond to natural disasters and costing $2,000 equivalent or less
per JSIF Subproject, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $90,000
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works which should either: (i) be procured as an extension
of an existing contract; or (ii) are required to respond to natural
disasters and costing $25,000 equivalent or less per JSIF Subproject,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $430,000 equivalent, may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
Page  8
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for Part B of the Project shall be
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded under Parts B
and C.1 of this Section; (b) each contract for goods to be awarded
under Part C.2 (a) of this Section estimated to cost more than
$100,000 equivalent; and (c) each contract for works to be awarded
under Part C.2 (b) of this Section estimated to cost more than
$200,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost: (i) less than $25,000 equivalent each under JSIF Subprojects;
and (ii) less than $100,000 equivalent each under Part B of the Project;
or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost:
(i) less than $25,000 equivalent under JSIF Subprojects; and (ii) less
than $50,000 equivalent each under Part B of the Project.  However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of con-
sulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contract value to: (i) $25,000 equi-
valent or above under JSIF Subprojects; and (ii) $100,000 equivalent
or above under Part B of the Project; (e) amendments to contracts for
Page  9
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to:
(i) $25,000 equivalent or above under JSIF Subprojects; and (ii) $50,000
equivalent or above under Part B of the Project; or (f) contracts for
the positions listed in annex D to the Implementation Letter.
