Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4088-JM
                               Loan Agreement
                      (Social Investment Fund Project)
                                  between
                                  JAMAICA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated October 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4088-JM
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Jamaica Social
Investment Fund (JSIF), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to JSIF the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and JSIF;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
Page  2
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Beneficiary" means a group of individuals to benefit by the
carrying out of a JSIF Subproject;
     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on
April 1 and ending on March 31;
     (c)  "Free-Limit Grant" means each Grant: (i) which finances works
under a JSIF Subproject costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (ii)
which finances goods under a JSIF Subproject costing less than $100,000
equivalent; or (iii) which finances technical assistance and training
under a JSIF Subproject costing less than $25,000 equivalent;
     (d)  "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the
proceeds of the Loan by JSIF to a Subproject Sponsor to finance the
carrying out of a JSIF Subproject;
     (e)  "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date here-
with from the Borrower and JSIF to the Bank regarding: (i) the minimum
counterpart funds to be provided by the Borrower each year during
Project implementation as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment; (ii) the management and staff positions of JSIF for which
personnel must be employed as provided in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement; (iii) the matters to be discussed in the review referred
to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement; and (iv) the consultants
to be employed under Part B.1 of the Project for which the exception
of prior review referred to in paragraph 2 (f) of Section II of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement shall not apply;
     (f)  "JSIF's Articles" means the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of JSIF, both dated February 26, 1996;
     (g)  "JSIF Subproject" means a specific project which meets the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and consists of: (i)
social infrastructure projects involving: (A) the rehabilitation,
expansion or construction of schools, health centers, day care
centers, shelter homes for children, the elderly and the disabled,
community centers, training facilities and sport facilities, including
the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor; or (B)
the rehabilitation or construction of latrines, community showers,
drains and canals and community-based water systems; (ii) economic
infrastructure projects involving: (A) the rehabilitation or upgrading
of parochial, feeder and urban access roads; or (B) the rehabilitation
or construction of community-based agroprocessing facilities; (iii)
social services projects involving: (A) the provision of technical
assistance and training in career guidance, job placement, counseling,
and parenting and family life-education; or (B) the provision of
training in productive sector skills; or (iv) organizational develop-
ment projects involving the provision of technical assistance and
training to: (A) governmental and non-governmental organizations in
Jamaica in participatory project identification techniques; or (B)
Subproject Sponsors in the preparation, implementation and management
of JSIF Subprojects;
     (h)  "Operational Manual" means the manual, acceptable to the Bank,
to be adopted by JSIF as provided in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement
which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria and procedures to be
followed by JSIF in the identification, preparation, appraisal, approval,
contracting and supervision of JSIF Subprojects; (ii) the eligibility
criteria for Subproject Sponsors; (iii) the criteria and procedures to
carry out the environmental assessments referred to in paragraph 1(b)
of Section I of  Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (iv) the terms
and conditions of Grants; (v) a format of a Sponsor Agreement; and (vi)
the Project performance indicators, as such manual may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
Page  3
     (i)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
JSIF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
     (j)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "Sponsor Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to
in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
     (l)  "Subproject Sponsor" means any entity which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual which sponsors
a JSIF Subproject;
     (m)  "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JSIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement; and
     (n)  "Unit Cost System" means JSIF's data base of standard
regionalized unit prices of works and goods to be used as a reference
for the costing of JSIF Subprojects.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree
to be paid) by JSIF on account of withdrawals made by JSIF under a
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants'
services required for the carrying out of a JSIF Subproject under
Part A of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
Page  4
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
        (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
              (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
              plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
              Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
              rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
              in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
              portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
              currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
              include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
              and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months' notice to
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The Managing Director of JSIF (or such other person
or persons as such Managing Director shall designate in writing) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause JSIF to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of JSIF therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JSIF to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall not later than April 30 of each year until the
completion of the Project, starting in 1997, furnish to the Bank
Page  5
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the availability of the minimum
counterpart funds required for the execution of the Project during the
corresponding Fiscal Year (as set forth in annex A to the Implementa-
tion Letter), as the allocation of such funds for each such Fiscal Year
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds
of the Loan to JSIF under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and JSIF, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by JSIF
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall participate in the
review referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Bank has received the audit report for
               the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested, including a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
               of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
Page  6
               together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  JSIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that JSIF will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  JSIF's Articles shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of JSIF to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JSIF
or for the suspension of its operations during the implementation of
the Project.
     (e)  JSIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the corresponding Sponsor Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this Agree-
ment shall occur.
                               ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and JSIF;
     (b)  that the Operational Manual has been adopted by JSIF;
     (c)  that JSIF has employed the personnel for the management and
staff positions listed in annex B to the Implementation Letter;
     (d)  that a management information system, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been installed in JSIF and is operating in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank;
     (e)  that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the evidence
referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement for Fiscal Year 1996;
and
     (f)  that JSIF has furnished to the Bank Project targets, satis-
Page  7
factory to the Bank, for the first year of Project implementation.
     Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by JSIF, and is legally binding upon JSIF in accordance with
its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and JSIF and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and JSIF in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03.  The date January 6, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          30 National Heroes Circle
          Kingston 4
          Jamaica
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
               Cable address:      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    JAMAICA
                    By  /s/ Omar Davies
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  8
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the            % of
                         Loan Allocated        Expenditures
                         (Expressed in             to be
     Category               Dollars)              Financed
(1)  Grants                15,330,000         100% of amounts
                                              disbursed
(2)  Goods under Part B       240,000         100% of foreign
     of the Project                           expenditures;
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost); and
                                              80% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(3)  Operating              1,080,000         100%
     Expenditures under
     Part B of the Project
(4)  Consultants' Services  3,350,000         100%
     and Training under
     Part B of the Project
                            _________
     TOTAL                 20,000,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures incurred
by JSIF in connection with: (i) the salaries of its support staff,
office rent, utilities' services, office supplies and travel cost and
per-diem of its personnel during Project implementation; and (ii) the
carrying out of the campaign referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 31,1996; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures with respect to each Grant
(under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule)
unless: (i) the Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) the corresponding Sponsor
Agreement has been signed by the respective parties thereto.
Page  9
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a)
contracts for goods (other than computer equipment and vehicles)
costing the equivalent of $100,000 or less; (b) contracts for works
costing the equivalent of $200,000 or less; (c) contracts for con-
sulting firms costing: (i) less than $25,000 equivalent under JSIF
Subprojects; and (ii) less than $100,000 equivalent under Part B of
the Project; (d) contracts for the employment of individual consul-
tants costing: (i) less than $25,000 equivalent under JSIF Subprojects;
and (ii) less than $50,000 equivalent under Part B of the Project with
the exception of those employment contracts for the positions listed in
annex D to the Implementation Letter; (e) training costing less than
$25,000 equivalent under JSIF Subprojects; and (f) Operating Expendi-
tures and Training set forth in Categories (3) and (4) of the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
responding to the needs of the most vulnerable population groups in
Jamaica by: (a) establishing an efficient and demand-driven mechanism
to deliver basic services and to provide infrastructure to the poor
population; (b) providing resources to the areas of basic social and
economic infrastructure and social services; and (c) expanding the
Borrower's institutional capacity to identify, design, implement,
manage and sustain JSIF Subprojects.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  JSIF Subprojects
     Provision of Grants to finance the carrying out of JSIF Subprojects.
Part B:  Institutional Strengthening
1.   Strengthening of JSIF's institutional and operational capacity,
through, inter alia, the hiring of personnel, the provision of tech-
nical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of
the goods required therefor.
2.   Design and implementation of a strategy to carry out a nationwide
campaign to promote the activities of JSIF among the population,
including, inter alia, the dissemination of: (a) the criteria and
procedures to be followed by JSIF in the identification, preparation,
appraisal, approval, contracting and supervision of JSIF Subprojects;
and (b) the terms and conditions of Sponsor Agreements.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
                                              (Expressed in
Date Payment Due                                Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 2002
     through February 15, 2013                  835,000
     On August 15, 2013                         795,000
Page  10
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
    repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General
    Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the amount of $2,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
Page  11
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  12
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                 Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
          "22. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth
          in paragraph (i) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement.".
2.   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall be canceled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
     "or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 4(c) of Section I of
     Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
     of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
     or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
     paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests,
     the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of
     the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
     withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
     respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving
     of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
     canceled.".
