RESTRICTED
jJO3        3114              Report No. P-392
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
RED NACIONAL
DE LOS
FERROCARRILES ESPANOLES
July Z2, 1964



=TNREIATIONAL EANK FOR RECOISTROUCTION AND DEVE.LOPIENT
REPORT ATMD RECO10ENDATIONS OF T7E PRESIDEMIT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRElCTORS
ON A PROPCGED LQV TO THE
RED MACIONAL DE LOS F_EPRCAPRIRIES ESPAHOLES
1.a       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $65 million to
the Spanish NTational Railways (Red Macional de los Ferrocarriles Espanoles,
or REIFE) to assist in financing the first two years of REN4FE's ten-year
lodernization Program, 196h-73.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has worked closely with the Spanish Government and
RENFE for several years to prepare a comprehensive program to mcdernize
RElIES and make it financially viable.  In 1960, the Bank helped obtain
the services of a consultant to study REIFE's organization and adminis-
tration. In 1961-62, the Bankts Economic Survey Mission to Spain
recommended a large investment program and major reforms in organization
and operations.  In a subsequent exchange of memoranda, full agreement
in principle was reached with the Government on the broad outlines of a
program to put REINES on a sound basis. A consulting firm was then
retained to prepare a detailed program for 1964-73. Its report was dis-
cussed with the Government and YEL=FE in October 1963, and a number of
revisions agreed upon. An appraisal mission visited Spain in January
1964, as a result of wqhich further revisions were made in the programe
Negotiations were completed in Washington at the end of May.
3.        The proposed loan, if approved, would be the second to Spain.
A first loan of $33 million, for highway improvement and maintenance,
was signed in October 1963. The highway loan was declared effective in
March, 1964; there have been no disbursements to date, but the first
withdrawal application is expected shortly.
4.        %,Two other Spanish projects are being studied by the Banks  One
is the first stage of the east coast freeway which will eventually ex-
tend from the French frontier to the South of Spain, via Barcelona.   The
cost ofthis stage is tentatively estimated at about $85 million, and the
Bank loan might be about $35 million. The other is a port project,
embracing several major ports and a general equipment program, which
might entail a loan of some $25 million.   In addition, the Bank has in-
dicated in the-proposed Loan Agreement its willingness to consider further
loans to RENFE, provided there is satisfactory progress towards its re-
habilitation. The railway's Modernization Program envisages external
borrowing of $200 million during 196h-73, including the loan now proposed.



- 2 -
5.        In embarking on a lending program in Spain, the Bank has had
discussions with the Government on two cases involving the interests of
foreign investors in Spain - those of Barcelona Traction and Porto Pi.
The Barcelona Traction case, which concerns the bankruptcy and forced
liquidation in 19h8 of a large public utility holding companiy of which
Belgian interests own a majority of shares, is now before the Interna-
tional Court of Justice at the Hague. So long as the case is sub judice,
the dispute does not in my judgment present an obstacle to Bank lending.
6.        The Porto P1 case involves the expropriation by the Spanish
Government in 1927 of a petroleum company, half of which was owned orig-
inally by French banking interests. There have been many years of liti-
gation in judicial and administrative tribunals in Spain. I am pleased
to inform you that the appropriate Spanish Court rendered its final
decision in this case on June 5th. We have been assured by the Govern-
ment that no further legal measures are necessary and that it remains
only to implement the decision by a cash payment and delivery of shares
to the former shareholders.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LCAN
7,        The main features of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:                 Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles
E snanole s (RENFE).
Guarantor:                Spain
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $65 mrillion.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing the first two
years of REIENEts 1964-73 Modernization
Program.
Terms and Amortization:   20 years, including 4 years' grace.
Semi-annual installments beginning
September 15, 1968 and ending September
15, 1984.
Interest:                 5     per annum.
Commitment charge:        3/8 of 1% per annum.



- 3 -
PART III - TTHE PROJECT
8,        An appraisal report on the project (No. TO-b20a) is attached
(No, 1).
9.        The Spanish railways have been in very poor condition for many
years. The system is antiquated and inefficient and every year its op-
erations show a large deficit. REIFE's equipment needs have been ne-
glected, while the Government constructed unnecessary new lines and
refused to remove uneconomic branch lines from service. Management was
subordinate to the tLnistry-of Public Works, and lacked adequate control
over procurement, personnel, and operating policies. Passenger and
freight subsidies and discriminatory taxes deprived the railways of im-
portant revenues, while the costly and inferior service resulting from
obsolete equipment, overstaffing, and redundant plant accelerated the
loss of traffic to the highways.
10.       Over the last two years, some important improvements have
already been made. New legislation has given RENFE a large measure of
autonomy. An outstanding businessman has been appointed Chairman of the
Board, and a competent General 1Manager designated. The new management
has begun to improve RENFEts internal organization, reduce staff, and
introduce new operating methods, More funds have been provided by the
Government for new investment0  Construction of new lines has been halted,
except for one which consultants have shcim to be justified. Arrangements
for coordinating transport have been established.
11,       Despite these improvements, much remains to be done.  The
1964-73 Modernization Program is designed to transform RENEE into an ef-
ficient and modern railway system earning a reasonable return on its
investment. The Program includes not only an Investment Plan of 62
billion pesetas ($1 billion), but also an administrative re-organization,
modernization of operations and a further reduction of staff, the dis-
continuance of service on uneconomic lines and stations, a rate and fare
structure more closely related to costs, and improved transport coordi-
nation.
12.       The proposed project consists of the first two years (1964-65)
of the Investment Plan for 1964-73. It also includes a broad range of
measures for improving RENFEEs operations, as specified in a Plan of
Action concerning the steps to be taken with respect to transport coor-
dination, operational improvements, staff reductions, tariff policy, and
financial relations with the Government, as well as in an agreement on
line closing.
13.       Estimates prepared jointly by RENFE and the Bank indicate three
stages of financial improvement for RENFE: revenues should be sufficient
to cover cash expenses, including interest, beginning in 1965; deprecia-
tion shiould be covered by 1971; and RENFE should be earning a reasonable
return on its investment within a few years after 1973. The Government



- h -
and RZNFE have agreed to take all necessary or desirable steps, including
tariff changes, to meet these objectives by the agreed dates. The Govern-
ment has also undertaken to finance aENFE's operating deficit so long as
this is necessary.
1t.       The Government and RElIE have agreed with the Bank on the
importance of closing uneconomic lines and on a method of study for deter-
mining which should be closed. Decisions on 200 Km. of lines are to be
made before the loan becomes effective, and on 2,000 Km. within three
years.
15.       The 1964-73 Investment Plan is to be financed from three sources
- depreciation, the Government contribution and external borrowing. Under
the proposed RENFE Investment Plan law, which is to be adopted by the
Spanish Parliament before the Bank loan becomes effective, the Government
undertakes to ensure that all necessary funds will be provided for the Plan0
The proposed Bank loan of $65 million would finance about one-third of the
commitments in the first two years of the Plan, The remaining funds re-
quired would come from RENFEIs depreciation allowance and fromn the Govern-
mentts contribution as provided for in the Investment Plan law and as
agreed to in the loan documents,
16,       There is a strong economic justification for the Modernization
Program and, correspondingly, for the project0  A significant part of
Spaints traffic can be carried most economically by rail; this traffic is
likely to increase appreciably in the next ten years and, most important,
the Program will make it possible to carry the traffic at much lower costs
and to improve the quality of service for bcth passengers and freight0
The rate of return on the planned investment, which is estimated at some
15%, is satisfactory.
17.       RENFE now operates under an interim Statute, or Charter, adopted
in 1962, but a definitive Statute satisfactory to the Bank is to be enacted
before the proposed loan becomes effective.  The draft of the new Statute
establishes PENFE as a public corporation to be operated along commercial
lines. The Government owns all the equity and appolnts the Board of Direc-
tors which is responsible to the Government for the overall administration
and management of RI1FE. The Statute confers a large degree of autonomy
on REl!7E, but reserves several main powers to the Government, notably in
relation to tariff policy, line closing and new line construction, and
approval of the operating and investment budgets and proposed borrowing.
18.       The proposed Bank loan would be used primarily for the purchase
of shunting locomotives, passenger and ftreight cars, switches and ties
for track renewal. All goods financed umder the loan would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding. In evaluating bids,
Spanish manufacturers would be permitted a preference of 15% in lieu of
customs duties which are generally higher. These procedures were also
followed in the highnay loan last October.  Since Spanish suppliers are
expected to bid on a number of contracts, it is not possible to give a
meaningful estimate of the foreign exchange component of the proposed loan
at this time.



PART IV - LEGAL ThISTIUJ-TENCl7S AND LEGAL AUFHGRITY
19.       A draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and RENFE  (No. 2) and
a draft Guarantee Agreement between Spain and the Bank (Nio. 3) are
attached,
20.       The proposed Loan Agreement conforms to the general pattern of
Bank loan agreements with railway enterprises. In Section 5-16, RENFE
agrees to take all necessary action to provide sufficient revenues to
meet the three stages of financial improvement, as defined by the Bank,
by agreed dates. Provision is made (Section 5tl1) that the Plan of Ac-
tion and the Investment Plan shall not be amended without the agreement
of the Bank0  The loan may be declared repayable immediately if any
substantial change in the Statute of REDNFE is made without the Bank's
agreement (Section 6.O2). The conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01)
include adoption of an acceptable Statute and Investment Plan; satisfac-
tory progress towzards discontinuance of service on uneconomic lines;
conversion into equity of all past Government contributions to RENFE and
of any balances owed by R2IFE to the Government; and the application of
normal commercial rates to Government traffic, including mail.
21.       The Gu<arantee Agreement is in tne usual form and includes a
provision of funds covenant (Section 2.02) and an undertaking by the
Government to meet RENFEts operating deficit and to repay its outstand-
ing debts unlil REINFETs revenues are sufficient to meet these items
(Section 3.07 (b)).  In Section 3.06 (b), which parallels Section 5$14
of the Loan Agreement, the Government undertakes to carry out the Plan
of Action and the Investment Plan and not to amend them without the
agreement of the Bank. Section 3,07 (a) parallels Section 5.16 of the
Loan Agreement which commits the Government to take such steps as may
be required to provide RENFE with revenues to meet the three stages of
financial improvement by agreed dates.
22.       The report of the Committee provided for in Article ITI,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement is also attached (No. [).
PART V - ECONOMIC SITTJATION
23.       A report (No. EA-142a) on the "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Spaint" was circulated to the Executive Directors on October
17, 1963 (IBRD/R63-121) in connection with their consideration of the
Bank loan for the highway project. Since then, there have been no basic
changes in Spain's economic position and prospects. The following para-
graphs bring up-to-date the information contained in the report.
24.       Recent Economic Developments.  Throughout 1963 and into 196hl,
the Spanish economy continued to expand at an annual rate of somewhat
more than 6%, without great strain on resources and with relatively
stable prices since the spring of 1963. These favorable developments



- 6 -
were reflected in the balance of payments. Increased imports during
1963 provided one-third of the increase in available resources; they
were largely for investment, but there were also substantial purchases
of foodstuffs to help offset shortages which resulted from crop fail-
ures and rising demand. Exports fell slightly, but tourist receipts,
which provide one-third of foreign exchange, rose by $200 million.
In addition, long-term capital inflow and remittances increased and
there was short-term private borrowing of perhaps $50 million. As a
result of all these factors, external reserves increased by $80 million.
25.       Although government expenditures rose more than revenues
during 1963, the current budget still showed a large surplus which was
devoted to investment. In the 196L4 budget (which is 112 above 1963),
there is an even larger current surplus, but increased recourse to the
capital market will be necessary to finance the planned rise in public
investment. An incipient inflation early in 1963 was successfully
nipped in the bud; for the year as a wihole, however, bank advances rose
2024 as the Government subsequently permitted large rediscoulnts by the
central bank. The record investment level also entailed a 70% increase
in new capital issues in 1963. This year, the increase in bank advances
has been somewhat slowqer, but the rate of new capital issues has paral-
leled that of last year,
'26.      Development Plan, The first Development Plan, which is for
1964-67, cane into effect in January, 1961. The Plan covers all public
invest:-lent and includes measures to encourage private investment in
priority industries through subsidies, tax rebates and access tio credit,
as well as measures to promote exports and to liberalize tlle economy0
It is binding for the public sector but only indicative for the private
sector.
27,       The Plan target is a 6% annual increase in GNP. To maintain
this rate, which has been achieved in each of the three years since the
1959-60 recession, the Planning Commission projects an increase of total
investment fron 21% to 24% of GNP. Within the public sector, the major
allocations are to transport (25%), housing (2QZ), irrigation (15%),
education (7%), and agriculture (6%).  In addition, some 17%4 is provided
for public enterprises, notably the National Industrial Institute, INI.
The large allocations to transport, education and agriculture correspond
to the priorities suggested by Bank missions. Those for irrigation and
state enterprises do not appear justified, but there is unlikely to be
sufficient capacity to execute the planned irrigation program, and the
allocation to state industry is tentative and part of it may in fact go
elsewhere.
20.       The Government expects to finance more than half of the planned
$5.5 billion of public investment from current revenues and another large
portion from new capital issues in Spain.  Up to 15% (ie. up to $200
million annually) may need to be financed abroad. Of total investment
during 1964-67, the Planning Commission estimates that some 10% ($1.5
billion) may require external finance.



- 7 -
29,       A number of measures to strengthen the economy are being adopted
as part of the Plan. In particular, the tax structure is being modernized
and the civil service reorganized; state industry is to pay normal inter-
est rates and is to account annually for its operations; contracting pro-
cedures for public works are being improvedv,
30.       On the whole, the growth targets and estimates of national
savings are reasonable; adequate machinery for supervision and review of
the Plan has been established; the measures to enforce the Plan in the
public sector and to encourage private enterprise are realistic; and the
financial requirements are within the capacity of Spain, supplemented by
moderate external borrowing.
31.       Problems and Prospects.  The performance of exports is at the
center of Spain's economic problems. The Plan estimates that merchandise
exports need to increase 1$ p.a0 if the payments gap is not to be excess-
ive, yet since the devaluation of 1959 they have stagnated. Rapid export
growth is impeded by the structural problems of agriculture, lack of ex-
port consciousness on the part of businessmen, and foreign competition.
The first half of 1964 has seen two favorable developments on the export
side. One is the record level of exports as the result of good harvests
and of improved sales of manufactures. The other is the offer of the EEC
to begin discussions in the fall on "economic problems which have arisen
for Spain through the existence of the Common Market." With respect to
imports, it would be difficult to hold increases to the plamned 9% pla.2
if inflationary pressures should be renewTed. However, 196L gives indi-
cations that the post-liberalization surge of imports may be tapering
off, and the output of modernized plants should be better able to com-lpete
with imports. Tourist receipts, $690 million in 1963, are rising even
faster than planned. Estimated capital inflow ($300-400 million annually)
is realistic in terms of recent experience and of the Governmentts bor-
rowing capacity. An inflow on this scale would represent only 2% of gross
national expenditures, which does not constitute an undue reliance on
external resources.
32.       Price pressures are likely to recur, if only because further
wage increases are now occurring as a result of the present round of
collective agreements. Shortage of skilled labor and inereased demand
for foodstuffs could also result in higher prices. It will be difficult
to expand the capital market by 10% annually and to ensure that savings
are devoted to high priority investments. However, the Government has
adequate powers to regulate credit and can appreciably influence the
capital market.  Moreover, the budget is based on maintaining the tax
effort  at 14h of GNP, a proportion which could be increased if necessary.
33.       Creditworthiness. While there is uncertainty concerning the
nature of the government which might succeed that of General Franco, who
is nowq 71 years old, it is likely that any new regime would adhere to
the liberal policies to which the Government is committed under the
Development Plan. The designation of a Vice-Premier in 1962 should help
an orderly transition to a new government.



-8-
3k.       By the end of 1963, external public debt was $290 million, and
debt service absorbed 2% of 1963 receipts from merchandise exports and
tourism. Following a rise of some $50 million since December last, re-
serves were $1,220 million at the end of May, 1964, equivalent to seven
months of imports at the 1963 rate. During 1963, Spain made several
arrangements for foreign assistance in financing the Development Plan.
When renewTing the defense agreement, the United States estimated that
Export-Import Bank lending would total some $100 million during the next
several years. In November 1963, France and Spain agreed on a $150
million credit, mostly in the form of supplierst credits, for the first
two years of the Plan. At the same time, foreign private investment has
increased markedly, reaching about $175 million in 1963.
35.       Spain has the capacity to use resources from abroad in invest-
ments of high priority in both the public and private sectors. Domestic
savings account for more than 201 of GNP, and the Plan provides a frame-
work within which the inflow of resources can be productively employed.
Spain would be able to service without difficulty additional public debt
of up to $200 million a year as envisaged under the Plan, the debt
service ratio rising from 2% in 1963 to an estimated 6%, by 1968.
PART VI - COICLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGIEEIMENT
36.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank0
PART VII - RECOPThEIDATICNS
37.       I recommend that the Bank at this time make a loan to the Red
Nacional de los Ferrocarriles Espanoles with the guarantee of Spain in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $65 million for a term of 20
years, including a grace period of four years, with interest at 54% per
annum, and on such other terms as are specified in the attached draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and that the Executive Directors adopt a
resolution to that effect in the form attached (No. 5),
Washington, D.C.                                    George D. Woods
July 22, 1964                                          President
Attachments



