CIRCULATING COPY                RESTRICTED
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK             Report No. TO-420a
IN CENTRAL FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE 1964-73 MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
OF THE
SPANISH RAILWAY
(RENFE)
July 21, 1964
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U.S. dollar = 60 Pesetas
1, 000 Pesetas = 16.67 U.S. dollars



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF THE 1964-73 MODERYIZATION PROGRAM
OF THE SP,AXNISI. RAI.AY (RENFE)
Table of Contents
Page
SUIA1'ARY
I.  INTRODUCTION                                              1
II.  TRANSPORT IN SPAIN                                        1
A. Background                                             1
B. The TransDort System                                   2
C.  Traffic                                               3
D. Transport Coordination                                 4
III.  THE RAILIJAY SYSTEM                                       5
A.  Organization and Management                           5
B.  Labor Force and Wages                                 7
C.  Facilities                                            8
D.  Operations                                            9
E.  Traffic                                              10
F.  Tariff Policy                                        11
G.  Financial Situation                                  13
IV. THE INVESTYENT PLAN                                       15
A.  Introduction                                         15
B.  The Investment Plan                                  15
C.  The Project                                          17
D.  Financing the Plan                                   17
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFIQATION                                   18
A.  Introducytion                                        18
B.  Increa.swd-ef.fi-ciency                              18
C.  Traf-ifc-zur6vtAh                                    20
VI.  FUT-URE             FINANCES                             20
VII.            CONC     q     IAT -IONS                       23
ANNEX A:K PlaThn of Action
ANNEX B: RENFE Organization Chart
ANNEX C:  RLNFE's Future Traffic, 196h-73



Table of Contents
2
List of Tables
1. Freight Traffic, by Mode of Transport, 1953-63.
2. Passenger Traffic, by Iviode of Transport, 1953-63.
3. RENFE Motive Power Stock, December 31, 1962.
4. RENFiE Passenger and Freightcar Stock, 1963.
5. RENFE Freight Traffic 1950-63.
6. REi\WE Coimmercial Freight Traffic, by IIajor Commodities, 1953-62.
7. RENFE Passenger Traffic, 1950-63.
8. RENFE Balance Sheet, December 31, 1963.
9. RENFE Revenues and Expenses, 1958-63.
10.  RENFE Investment Plan, 1964-73.
11. Estimate of Futuire RENFE Freight Traffic, 1964-73.
12. Estimate of Future RENFE Passenger Traffic, 1964-73.
13. RZENFE Estimated Revenues and Expenses, 1964-73e
14. RENFE Estimated Balance Sheets, 1964-73.
15. RENFE Estimated Cash Flow, 1964-73.
Map: REITE Lines.



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF THE 1964-73 MODERNIZATION PPOGRAM
OF THE SPANISH RAILWAY (RENFE)
SU14ARY
i.        The Government of Spain has asked the Bank for a loan of US$65
million equivalent to help finance the 1964-73 Modernization Program of the
Spanish Railway (RENFE). The loan would be made to RENFE and guaranteed by
the Government. The project would consist of the first two years of the
Program and the proposed loan would finance about one-third of the commit-
ments during this period.
ii.       The 1964-73 Modernization Program, drawn up with the assistance of
French consultants, is designed to transform RENF'E from an antiquated enter-
prise operating at a large deficit and providing inadequate service into an
efficient ari modern railway system earning a reasonable return on its in-
vestment. The Program includes not only large new investments, but also a
reorganization of RENFEts management, modernization of operations and a re-
duction in staff, the closing of unprofitable lines and stations, a rate and
fare structure more closely related to costs, improved transport coordination,
and many other measures. Agreement has been reached with the Government and
REN\FE on the measures to be taken to carry out this Program.
iii.      The cost of the investments included in the Program is estimated
at Pts 62 billion (about US$1 billion equivalent). Major items include the
renovation of track (more than Pts 15 billion), diesel locomotives (Pts 11
billion), rolling stock (about Pts 8 billion) and electrification (Pts 6
billion).  the Investment Plan is technically sound, its financing is reason-
ably assured and RENFE is well able to carry it out. RENFE plans to use
consultants to help in its implementation.
iv.       The Program has a sound economic justification.  A significant part
of Spaints traffic can be carried most economically by railway; this traffic
is likely to increase in the next 10 years and, most important, the Program
will make it possible to carry the traffic at substantially lower costs and
improve the quality of service. The rate of return on the investment is in
the order of 15 percent which is satisfactory.
v.        RENFEts financial position is not sound. The Modernization Program
includes, therefore, measures to reduce costs, adjust rates and fares, revalue
assets, reorganize the debt structure, install a modern accounting and costing
system and others. As a result of these measures it is estimated that RENFEts
revenues will in 1968 be able to cover its cash expenditures (including inte-
rest but excluding depreciation); depreciation will be covered, in addition,
in 1971 and thereafter RENFE will begin to earn a return on its investments.



- ii -
vi.       The proposed Bank loan would finance primarily freight cars,
passenger cars, diesel shunting locomotives and ties for track renewal, All
goods financed under the loan would be acquired through international compe- 7
titive bidding. In evaluating bids, Spanish manufacturers would be granted a 15 ?
percent margin of preference in lieu of customs duties.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of USk65
million equivalent to RENFE for a term of 20 years, including a 4-year period
of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Spain has requested the Bank for a loan of US$65
millior equivalent to help finance the 1964-73 Modernization Program of the
Spanish Railway (Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles EspanolDs, or RENEE). Th!
project would consist of the first two years of the Program, and the proposed
Bank loan would finance about one-third of the commitments during this period.
The loan would be made to RENFE and guaranteed by the Government.
2.        The Bank has worked closely in recent years with Spain in the trans-
port field. In 1960, the Bank assisted in the recruitment of consultants to
survey organizational and administrative problems in railway and highway
transportation. In 1961, at the request of the Spanish Government, the Bank
organized an economic survey mission. Its report, which was published in
1962, dealt extensively with the proolems of transportation.   It found that
RENFE faced many difficult problems and recommended major improvements, in-
cluding a large investment program.
3.        In November 1962, a Bank mission discussed with the Government the
basic policies which would have to be pursued to make RENFE an efficient rail-
way which could in time earn a reasonable return on its assets. Full agree-
ment on the broad lines of these policies was reached in an exchange of memo+.
randa in which the Bank indicated its willingness to consider a Loan to RENFE
when agreement on the content and timing of a detailed master plan had been
reached.  In March 1963, RENFE requested the French consulting firm OOFRERAIL
to draw up a 10Qyear Modernization Program (1964-73) which would cover all
steps necessary to make RENFE efficient and financially sound. This Program
was reviewed by RENFE and the Bank, and on the basis of discussions held in
October 1963 RENFE made certain modifications. The Prograr was reviewed in
Spain by an appraisal mission in January 1964, as a result of which further
modifications were agreed to. To implement the Program, a detailed Plan of
Action (see Annex A), as well as measures concerning a new statute for RENFE,
a 10-year Investment Plan, the future financial viability of RENFE, and the
discontinuance of service on uneconomic lines have been agreed to between
the Government, RENFE and the Bank.
4.        The proposed loan would be the second loan to Spain, following a
highway loan in 1963. If the experience during the next two years indicates
that RENFE is making favorable progress, consideration would then be given
to further Bank assistance to the Program. The Program assumes votal ex-
ternal borrowing of about US$200 million.
II. TRANSPORT IN SPAIN
A. Background
5.        Spain, with an area of about 500,000 sq. !in, is only slightly small~
er than France and nearly 70 percent larger than Italy. The population of
about 31 million is growing at less than 1 percent annually, and population
density is about one-third of that of Italy and three-quarters of that of
France.



6.        Spain's gross national product reached about Pts 830 billion in
1963 (nearly US$lh billion equivalent), with a per capita income of some
US$450 equivalent. The real growth of the economy in the last three years
has averaged a high 7 percent annually. The transport sector accounted for
6-7 percent of national product in recent years and absorbed about 5 percent
of its labor force.
B. The Transport System
7.        Spain's transportation system is heavily influenced by three im-
portant geographic factors: the rugged mountainous terrain, the wide disper-
sion of the major centers of production and population, and an extensive
coastline forming about two-thirds of its periphery. The mountains increase
construction and operating costs of land transport and the large distances
between the major economic centers - averaging more than 500 km between the
seven most important ones - require longer hauls than in most other European
countries. These hauls traverse areas of low population which do not gene-
rate much traffic but add to transport costs by requiring local train ser-
vice. The effects of geographical dispersion are illustrated by the fact
that the mileage of Spain's railway and highway network in relation to gross
national product is more than twice that in Italy and France. The extensive
coastline and the hindrance to land traffic caused by the coastal mountains
have led to the development of an important coastal shipping industry (see
paragraph 12). The rugged terrain and the long distances have also stimu-
lated considerable air transport.
8.        The basic railway and highway routes are made up of radials from
Madrid to the important cities, with lateral connections between them and ex-
tensive local and branch lines. The highway network is so extensive that
few locations are more than 10 km from a national highway and nearly all
areas are served by at least a dirt road. The number of motor vehicles (ex-
cluding motor cycles) is about o.8 million and has been growing at a rate
of about 20 percent annually since 1957. Nevertheless, highway transport is
still at an early stage of growth, as indicated by the fact that in 1962 there
were 45 inhabitants per vehicle, compared to 14 in Italy and 5 in France.
9.        The 1961 economic survey mission found that Spain's total transport
capacity, and particularly the railway and highway networks, was more than
adequate for the next few years; the major problem was to make it more effi-
cient, for which large-scale investments were recommended.
10.       Transportation has in recent years accounted for only slightly more
than 20 percent of gross investment annually, but in the new 4-year Develop-
ment Plan, 1964-67, this is being increased sharply to about 28 percent. The
total transport program will involve investments of about Pts 250 billion for
the 4 years, increasing from Pts 54 billion in 1964 to Pts 71 billion in 1967,
a growth of about 33 percent during the period.
11.       The distribution of transport investment expected in 1964-67 among
the various modes is as follows:



-3-
In billions of    Percentage
pesetas         of  Total
Highway Transport
Vehicles                           120                 48
Roads                                38                15
158          -     63
Railroads
RENFE                               28                 11
Other                                 9                 4
37                15
Navigation
Ships                               26                 10
Ports and facilities                15                 6
- 481             16
Aviation                                             15                 6
Total                     251               100
It is significant that the investment in highway transport. largely private
investment for maotor vehicles, will account for nearly two-thirds of toWal
transoort investments and that it will be 4 times that in the railways,
C. Traffic
12e       Freight traffic in Spain increased about 50 percent between 1953 and
1963 from about 23 billion to an estimated 35 billion toii/hin (see Table 1).
The annual increase of 4 percent compares with a growth in gross national pro-
duct in real terms of about 5 percent.  Coastal shipping hasalso grown by
about 50 percent during the period and accounts for slightly more than lo0 per-
cent of total traffic; since coastal shipping includes substantial traffic
to the Baleares and Canary Islands, its contribution to traffic within the
mairland is considerably less. There has, however, been a major shift from
railway to highway traffic. Railway traffic, wihich is discussed more fully
in paragraphs 38-4h has actually declined somewhat during the period, so
that its share of total traffic has fallen sharply from 33 to 18 percent.
Highway freight traffic, on the other hand, has increased by more than 130
percent, and its share of total traffiic has grown from 25 to 37 percent.
This development is not unusual and can be expected to continue, though pro-
bably at a reduced rate.
13.       The developments in passenger traffic have been similar to those in
freight, except that its growth has been more dynamic (see Table 2)o   It more
than doubled in the 1953-63 period, so -that its growth was 60 percent higher
than that of national income.  By far the largest absolute increase was in
highway transport, which tripled and now accounts for 60 percent of total
inter-city passenger traffic. Railway traffic, which is discussed more fully



in paragraph 42, remained virtually constant throughout most of the period
but due to a sharp spurt since 1960 is now 25 percent above the 1953 level.
The railway's share has, however, declined from nearly 60 to 33 percent in
the 10 years. Aviation accounts for about 5 percent of total passenger
traffic but, being the newest mode of transport, has expanded most rapidly.
D. Transport Coordination
14.       In Spain, as in most countries, attempts to coordinate effectively
the various modes of transport have begun only recently. the nearwmon-poly
position of the railway made coordination unimportant until the development
of highway transport on a significant scale, and the first reaction consisted
of measures to protect the railway. The dispersion of administrative res-
ponsibility has also made coordination more difficult, though the responsibi-
lity of the Rinistry of Public Works for railways, highways and ports per,its
coordination where it is most essential. The MKinistry of Cormierce, however,
has authority over shipping, the Air Iviinistry for civil aviat-on, and the
Interior Ministry for the mail and for highway police.
15.       In the past, there have been several organizations with nominal res-
ponsibilities for transport coordination. One is the Delegate Committee on
Transportation of the Council of Kinisters, consisting of the Ministers of the
interested agencies or of their representatives. It has no staff, and has
met only infrequently. Another is the Superior Council on Transportations, an
advisory body comnrising representatives of all the modes of transportation
and attached to the IvMinistry of Public Works. It also has no staff and its
meetings are largely ceremonial.
16.       The Bank's 1961 survey mission recommended more effective coordina-
tion and the establishment of a Transport Coordinat-ing Coinmission covering
all modes of transport. The Government a-reed to this in principle but the
far-reaching reorganization which would be necessary could not be done quick-
ly and the Government has, therefore, taken several interim measures. In
1962, for the purpose of helping to prepare and execute the 1964-67 Develop-
ment Plan, it established the Transport Commission of the Development Plan;
the Commission has a very large membership but seldom meets, and the work is
done by a small staff. In January 19624, the Government established a Superior
Council of Land Transport within the iinistry of Public IJorks, headed by the
Undersecretary.  The Council is being organized along functional lines - invest-
ments, costs, rates and fares, traffic, etc.  It will have a permanent staff,
but proper staffing will take considerable time since this is a relatively
new field in Spain and there are few qualified individuals. The Council is
an advisory body and has extensive authority to study all aspects of land
transport coordination as well as ports. To coordinate land transport w±th
other modes, a Comnission for Transport Coordination was established in
October 1963, consisting primarily of the Undersecretaries of Public lorrks,
Civil Aviation and the Merchant lMarine.  The Commission is authorized to
study and propose measures to assure effective transport coord nation, but it
is expected that most of the staff work will actually be carried out by the
Superior Council of Land Transport. It is anticipated that the Undersecretary



of Public Works will be chairman both of the Council and the Commission; he
is also chairman of the Transport Coimmission of the Development Plan.  This
is important because it will help to integrate the activities of the various
coordinating bodies and to insure that their decisions will be carried out.
17.       In addition to the organizational measures described above, the
Government has recently eliminated special freight and passenger taxes
payable only by users of the railway. The Government has also agreed to
undertake a number of other important coordinating measures:
a)   The tax on highway passenger services paralleling the railway
will be reviewed by the middle of 1966.
b)   A study and revision of fuel prices in line with a policy of in-
suring neutrality among the various modes of transport will be comp'eted by
the middle of 1966.
c)   More effective regulation and policing of highway transport will
be accomplished through a series of measures which establish minimum entry
conditions, enforce more effective weight and size limitabions, regl'late
freight forwarders and services operating on regular schedules, and establish
minimum labor conditi'ons, minimum insurance requirements, and a uniform
accounting system. The Government has agreed to specific dates in 1965 to
put these measures into effect.
d)   A study of rates and tax policy applicable to all modes of trans-
port will be completed by the middle of 1966.
e)   The discontinuance of service on uneconomic railway lines whose
traffic can be carried at lower cost by highway will be undertalcen; this is
discussed more fully in paragraph 37.
f)   Railway rates and fares will be revised so that they will reflect
transport costs more closely (see paragraphs 43-47).
III. THE RMIDiAY SYSTEM
A. Organization and Management
18.       RENFE was established in 1941 as the national railway when all
broad gauge (5t6II) railways in Spain, previously in the hands of more than
20 companies, were brought under ownership and management of the Government.
There are also a number of small narrow gauge railways, none of which are
operated by RENFE. RENFE was operated as an integral part of the Linistry
of Public Works until 1962. In that year a temporary decree gave RENFE the
status of an autonomous enterprise and an independent management over which
the Government reserved certain powers. The decree will be replaced by a



new statute which has already been-drafted and is satisfactory to the Bank;
its enactment is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed 'oan.
19.       The new statute will establish RENFE as a public corporation to
be operated along commercial lines.  It will provide for adequate governing
bodies, i0e. a board of directors and general and zonal management (see
Annex B), and describe their general responsibilities and duties. It recog-
nizes the importance of autcnomy for REiFE and will give it wide authority
over day-to-day management. It will reserve the following main powers to
the Government: (a) appointing the board of directors and its chainnan; (b)
establishing general policy on rates and fares; (c) approving the operating
and investment budgets, and proposed borrowings; (d) incorporating new lines
into the system and closing down existing lines. Representatives of the
Government, who are authorized to attend board meetings but not to vote,
have the right to veto temporarily board decisions which infringe upon ex-
isting laws or measures adopted by the Government pursuant to the new statute.
The veto is lifted if it is not confirmed by the Government within a desig-
nated period.
20.       The board of directors is responsible to the Government for the
over-all administration3 management and direction of RENTE. This is
reasonable since the Government in fact owns RENWE. Under the new statites,
important powers of the board include:
a)   to operate and manage RENFE and to carry out related comimercial
and industrial activities;
b)   to propose to the Governmiient the inclusion of new lines into
RENIFE and the total or part al closing of existing lines;
c)   to close stations unless the Minister of Public Works objects
on the grounds that such action would make efficient transportation
impossible;
d)   to set rates and fares within the general tariff policy established
by the Governnent;
e)   to procure needed facilities and equipment;
f)   to decide on the organizational structure of RENHE;
g)   to appoint and remove the General Manager and any RI,NFE employee
and to set salaries and wages; and
h)   to propose its operating and investment budgets for approval by
the Government and to execute approved budgets.



210       The general manager is responsible to the board; he attends board
meetings with voice but without a vote. He is charged with day-to-day man-
agement of all RENFE operations and with the execution of board decisions.
He is free to delegate executive powers to department heads. The railway
network is divided into seven zones, each controlled by a zonal management.
22,       The new statute grants the board sufficient authority to manage
RENFE as a comaercial enterprise. The present chairman and general mail-
ager, both of whom were appointed in 1962, are energetic, aware of REN'E's
problems and eager to solve them.  They have a good grasp of the many
difficulties facing RENFE and are receptive to consultantst recommendations.
The senior staff is well qualified. Important internal administrative im-
provements have already been made. For example, zonal management has been
strengthened and more authority over day-to-day operations has been dele-
gated to it. including responsibilitr for electrified lines which were pre-
viously operated independently.
B. Labor Force and Wages
23.       RENFEls labor force at the beginning of 1963 consisted of about
122,h00 permanent and 6,000 temporary employees; in addition, maintenance
work let to private industry in 1∞63 involved about 5,000 man-years'
24.       The labor force has been excessive for some time and RENFE plans
a substantial reduction as follows:
Permanent    Temporary
Employees    Employees
1963                                122,h00        6,000
1968                                101,000         3,500
1973                                 90,000        1,500
The work done by private industry will be cut in half by 1973   While these
reductions are greater than those recommended by S%YRIERAIL, they appear
realistic. During 1963, the labor force was already cut by abouti 5,000,
mainly through retirement. Retirement rules have recently been liberalized
to provide for better pension payments to those who retire at the age of 60;
formerly retiremient was generally only possible at 64 or 68. Staff aged 60
and over numbered about 17,400; 12,500 additional men will reach that age by
the end of 1968 and 13,100 more by the end of 1973. The present age pattern
of RENFE's staff will thus facilitate considerable reduction by retirement
alone and obviate the need for major personnel dismissals, which are always
difficult.
25.       While the number of workers to be recruited in the coming years is
not large, the new management is giving special attention to the recruitment
of well qualified, professional staff as exemDlified in the recent appointment
of about 40 engineers. Training is being improved, with special emphasis on
refresher courses for the existing staff.



- 8 -
26 aIn 1963, wages totalled Pts 7.6 billion and pensioin payments Pts
0.6 billion. W'ith the above reductions in labor force wages would decline
to Pts 5.7 billion and pensions inc;ease to Pts 1.2 billion by 1973, assuning
constant prices. However, RENFE plans to increase wages and pensions by 3
percent annually during this period. it believes that the wage increase is
justified by the sharp increases in productivity expected to result from the
Mqodernization Program (see paragraph 72), while pensions must catch up to some
extent with price increases in recent years; pensions were not raised in 1962
and 1963 when wages were increased by 52 percent, partly under a nation-wide
program to increase wages and partly in order to bring railway i;ages closer to
those in other industries. The proposals would increase wages to Pts 7.6 and
pensions to Pts 1.6 billion by 19731   Average wages per emlployee would rise
from about Pts 63,000 (0541,050 equivalent) in 1963 to Pts 8300oo (USpl 390)
in 19734
C. Facilities
27.       The main problem concerning RENFE's facilities is that throughout
most of the period since 1941 the Government has not provided sufficient funds
to modernize the railway system or even to replace obsolete equipment,, More-
over, the facilities of the numerous companies which RENFE took over were
never properly integrated,
28.       RENFE operates about 13,300 route-kans of broad gauge line of which
about 2,200 kms are electrified and about 2,000 Ims are double track. ."Iore
than one-third of the 15,300 track-lams of rails are overage and in bad con-
dition. In 1950-63 track renewals were carried out only on about 4,55o lms.
In view of the large backlog of renewals, this amount was not sufficient as
shown by the very large number of rail ruptures (see paragraph 35). Track
maintenance is reasonably satisfactory although methods and organization are
somewhat antiquated.  Structures are generally in good condition, but some
bridges, particularly in southern Spain, need strengthening to raise their load
limits. The condition of buildings is generally poor; by contrast, fixed elec-
trical equipment, poles, catenaries, etc. are very well maintained and in good
condition.
29.       REiFE is still obliged to operate primarily with steam locomotives,
of which a large proportion is overage.   This is an important reason for REIFE's
high operating costs.  Iotive power in 1962 included 3,150 steam locomotives,
of which 360 were not in service, 495 electric locomotives and train sets and
311 diesel locomotives and railcars (see Table 3),   Of the 2,790 steam locomo-
tives in service, about 1,150 were more than 30 years old and some even as much
as 100 years old; under the proposed lModernization Program, all of the 1,150
will be replaced by diesel or electric locomotives by the end of 1968. The
electric and diesel units are generally of recent date,
3Q.       A large proportion of rolling stock is also overage and in bad con-
dition. This, too, has increased operating costs, resulted in many accidents



-9-
and has made the service unattractive. Passenger stock included 3,275 cars,
of which 2,140 had wooden bodies and were over 30 years old (see Table 4).
Because of financial limitations, which should be reviewed in later years,
only about 1,300 of these are scheduled to be scrapped in the next 10 years.
REZFE owns about 68,000 freight cars; an additional 12,900 are privately-
owned. Of those owned by RENFE, E40 percent are over 35 years old aild an
additionall7 percent are 30-35 years old (see Table 4), Some 8,hOO of the
old cars have weak couplings and are seldom used, About 17,000 tLNFE cars
and 3,500 private cars are planned to be scrapped by 1973.
31.       Since the marshalling yards and repair shops have never been pro-
perly consolidated, their number is excessive. Under the .lIodernization Pro-
gram, the existing 29 yards will be reduced to 15, including 6 new ones, As
dieselization and electrification proceed, many of the old renair shops for
steam locomotives will be phased out and replaced by a small number of modern
shops. In view of the inadequate maintenance of buildings and other facili-
ties over many years, an amount of Pts 550 million has been included annually
in future operating expenditures to provide for their deferred maintenance.
D. Operations
320       A major problem in the operation of trains arises from the variety
and age of rolling stock; it includes cars whose maximurm permissible speeds
range from 50 to 100 km per hour. Under present procedures, the speed of
freight trains can be determined only after they have been formed since it is
the slowest car which sets the permissible speed, This hampers train punctua.-
lity and will be discontinued as soon as the car fleet is modernized. Line
and yard capacity is generally ample even on the main trunk lines.
33.       Utilization of steam locomotives and freight cars is also unsatisfac-
tory, largely because of the hiph percentage of overage stock. Diesel locomo--
tives, railcars and Dassenger coaches are reasonably well utilized, the latter
despite the large number with obsolete wooden bodies. Utilization of the
electric rolling stock is not adequate mainly because various electrified lile
sections and systems are not yet interconnected  electrically.    Inter-conne-
tion has been planned and construction is under way.
3 4       A substantial part of REi.fEls freight traffic is less than carload
traffic; in 1962, it accounted for more than 40 percent of the 2 million cars
loaded.  The old fashioned and costly method of transporting this freight by
picking up parcels at each station by slow moving trains contributes heavily
to REIFE's operating deficit. RENFE has already started to modernize these
operations on some of its lines by establishing central stations to and from
which the parcels are delivered by truck, in accordance with SOFRER1AILts re-
commendations.
35.       Safety of operations in 1961 compared unfavorably with that of neigh-
boring European countries (5 to 20 times as many derailments per 1,000 route-
kms)despite an improvement of about 50 percent since 1957 made possible by re-
newals of rolling stock and rails, Most derailments were caused by defective
rolling stock, although there were also more than 1,300 rail ruptures in 1962,
Of 2,100 accidents in 1962, slightly more than half were caused by negligence
of personnel. Measures for stricter regulation and supervision are included
in RENFE's program.



- 10 -
36,       More than 2,000 km of RENMIs lines have very low traffic densities.
These lines were built mostly by the linistry of Public Works without con-
sulting RENFE and apparently without prior economic studies. The fact that
2.5 percent of line construction costs are added to engineerst salaries has
been a strong incentive to build new lines regardless of economic consider-
ations. At the Bank's suggestion all furthler construction was stopped until
studies would show adequate economic benefits. Studies since made by con-
sultants indicate that completion of the corLstruction of the direct Madrid-
Burgos line would be economically justified; that further construction of the
Baeza-Albacete line should be postponed for 5 years and then restudied; and
that all construct-on started on other broad gauge lines should be discon-
tinued. The Government has accepted these recommendations and has also
agreed not to undertake any other new line construction without prior con.
sultation with the Bank. The method of supplemienting engineers' salaries,
which applies throughout the Government, is being changed as part of a
general reform of civil service salaries.
37.       SOFRERAIL has recommended a study of the partial or total discon-
tinuance of service on low traffic lines.  It bas been agreed that REIFE,
with the assistance of consultants, will study about 2,000 km of lines and
that the Government will reach decisions with respect to discontinuance of
sei-vice on these lines within the next three years. If a line is deter-
mined by the study to be uneconomic, service will be discontinued, unless
the Government and the Bank otherwise agree. Agreement has also been reached
on the method for the study, and a decision is to be taken on the first 200
kilometers of lines before the proposed loan is made effective.
E. Traffic
38.       Frei ht Traffic. RENFECs coniiercial freight traffic averaged 5.8
billion ton/km in the last three years, comapared to 7.4 billion ton/km ten
years earlier, a decline of about 22 percent (see Table 5). 11ost of this
decline came about from a decrease in average distances of haul during the
period from about 275 to 216 km.
39.       During the last 13 years, the developments in freight traffic (in
ton/km) fall into three distinct periods. Between 1950 and 1957, traffic
grew a modest 3 percent annually. Between 1958 and 1960 it declined sharp-
ly about 16 percent per year; this decline was partly a temilporary phenomenon
reflecting a recession in the economy accompanied by an untimely and substan-
tial rate increase, but it also reflected the growing and permanent compe-
tition from highway traffic which increased even during the recession,
Since 1961 the annual increase has been nearly 10 percent.
4o.       A significant part of RENFEIs traffic consists of low-value bulk
commodities travelling relatively long distances, for which the railway is
generally the most suitable carrier. As shown in Table 6) nearly one-fourth
of the freight traffic consists of coal and an additional 20 percent of mirn-
eral ores and petroleum.  The average distances of haul of these coramodities



- 11 -
is nearly 240 km. Other important corilmodities are fertilizers, sugar, cement
and grain; they account for about another 20 percent of traffic. The average
distance for al' freight is about 230 km, which however is not significantly
higher than the average distance of about 200 km for inter-city truck traf-
fic. The sharp drop in miscellaneous freight between 1953 and 1962 from
6.5 to 3.1 million tons indicates that much of this traffic has already been
lost to highway transport; this process is likely to continue.
41.       RE1FEsts service traf2ic has been unusually heavy, accounting for
20 percent of total freight traffic in 1963; in other countries it varies
from 3 to 8 percent.  Transportation of fuel accounts for nearly 45 per-
cent of the service traffic and permanient way materials and equipment for
nearly 40 percent. The large volime of service traffic is primarily due to
the fact that RENFE has generally bought its supplies "free on rail" and
has forwarded them itselfO, This s:rtem has the disadvantage that the pro-
curement fails to take into account transport costs. It was, therefore, re-
placed on january 1, 1964 by the method of inviting 'oids at a price which
includes the costs of delivery to destination, so that procurement decisions
are now based on a price including delivery costs. This in turn has lead to
a change in the classification of this traffic from service to cormmercial.
Of the previous 1.6 billion ton/km of service traffic in 1963, only 0.3
billion - or less than 4 percent - is classified as service under the new
procurement method,
42.       Passenger Traffic. RENFEts passenger traffic has been substan-
tially mor.e dynamic than its freight traffic, primarily due to a sharp spurt
since 1960 (see Table 7).  Between 1950 and 1958, passenger traffic grew by
about 2.5 percent annually, It fell drastically between 1958 and 1960 about
8 percent annually; as in the case of freight traffic, the decline was part-
ly a temporary phenomenon reflecting a recession in the economy accompanied
by an untimely and substantial fare increase, but it also reflected the grow-
ing and permanent competition from highway traffic which expanded even
during the recession. The annual increases since 1960 have averaged more
than 10 percent. Throughout the last 13 years, the average distance of
travel has been constant at about 68 kmI
F. Tariff Policy
43.       Freight Rates.  In general, the present freight rate structure is
based on the value-of-service principle as reflected by the value of the com-
modities shipped rather than on transport costs. Mazimum general carload
class rates have been established by the Ministry of Public Works but little
traffic moves at these rates. About 75 percent of carload freight traffic
is transported at 28 special distance rates which are lower than the class
rates. They are subject to specific minimum weight and distance require-
ments and decline with increases in distance, but not with the size of ship-
ment. While the minimum weight varies with the density of the commodity,
the rates do not sufficiently reflect the lower costs of larger shipments
and longer hauls. They appear too low for lightly loaded cars, too high
for cars with heavy loads, and too low for short distances. In addition,
special rates apply for particular hauls of commodities between given points.
Commodities moving under these special rates account for about 25 percent of
RENFEts carload freight revenues.



- 12 .
44,       Ordinary less-than-carload rates apply to about one half of less-
than-carload traffic, express rates to slightly more than a quarter, and
door-to-door rates to somewhat less than a quarter. The door-to-door rates
are about 20 percent and the express rates about 25 percent above the
ordinary less-than-carload rates; these differentials appear reasonable.
45.       Both the 1962 economic survey mission and SOFRERAIL have recom-
mended that rates should be related more closely to the costs of providing
the service. Accordingly, RENFE has agreed to employ SOFRERAIL to advise
on establishing a costing department and a costing system, and on revising
the rate structure.  It is contemplated that the general level of carload
rates will not be raised significantly, but that there will be changes in
individual rates to relate them more closely to costs. Less-than-carload
rates will be increased in stages until 1969 and will then be 20 percent
above present levels. Moreover, commercial rates are to be applied to goa-
ernmenu traffic and mail, which in the past have been subsidized by REFTE
with a substantial loss of revenue.  The Government has recently eliminated
the transport tax on railway freight which was not applicab'le to other modes
of transport, and has increased rates by the same amount. The Modernization
Program includes annual increases of 1.5 percent in freight and passenger
tariffs to reflect the general improvement in services.
L6.       Passenger Fares,  Passenger fares are generally below cost and
substantially lower than in neighboring countries, averaging about Pts 0.L
per passenger-kilometer compared to more than Pts 0.7 in West Germany,
France and Great Britain, Third class fares are used by more than 70 per-
cent of the passengers and produce about 54 percent of passenger revenues,
Second class fares are about 73 percent of first class fares; they are used
by about 25 percent of the passengers and produce about 30 percent of
passenger revenues. Reduced fares are granted to military personnel in
non-official travel9 workers, large families, most government ministries
and others; they have reduced passenger revenues by about 11 percento
47.       SOFRERAIL has recommended a reduction from three to two classes
and various fare increases. A two-class system would be in effect in 1968;
it would increase passenger revenues by about 12 percent.  RENFE and the
Government have agreed to general increases of about 6.5 percent in 1970
and 10 percent in 1973; these increases are related in time to the inaugu-
ration of improved services in order to minimize traffic losses. The Govern-
ment has also agreed to compensate RENFE for the loss of revenue on passenger
services which it requires RENFE to provide at less than normal commercial
rates (see paragraph 46); it has also eliminated the special tax on railway
passengers not applicable to other modes of transport and increased fares by
an equivalent amount. The program thus contemplates important adjustments
and increases in both freight and passenger fares.



- 13 -
G. Financial Situation
48-       Introduction.  REiCE has been in a difficult financial position
for many years. It has continuously incurred large deficits, it has had in-
sufficient funds to meet its obligations in time, and its financial relation-
ships with the Government have not been regularized.  Its accounting system
does not reflect all costs properly and its balance sheet has not given an
accurate picture of its financial status.
49.       Earnings and Finances.  REI'FE has operated Pt a deficit since its
inception.   Its earnings position in recent years is shown below (in Pts
billions):
1958   1959   2.960  1961   1962   1963
Operating Revenues                  9.1    9.6    9.8   10.1   10g7     l.41
Operating Expenses                 10,8   110   112   112   12.8    14.2
Operating Deficit                   1.7   14     l.4    1J1    2.1     2.8
Interest                            0.7    o.8    0.9    1.0    1.0     1.1
Net deficit after interest,
before depreciation             2.4    2.2    2.3    2.1    3.1     3.9
Wihile the deficit was relatively constant in 1956-61, the subsequent sharp in-
crease  reflects large wage increases without compensating increases in rates
or productivity. (For details see Tab'ie 9). These figures do not include de-
preciation which is not shown in RENFE's operating expenses; with depreciation,
the deficit in 1963 would have been at least Pts 5 billion, or US$85 million
equivalent,
5o.       Until 1954, RENFE was responsible for financing its owrn operating
deficits, It had to resort to several measures, principally marketing its own
securities; opening credit accounts with the Bank of Spain; non-payment of
debts (princinally taxes) to the State; and delayed payments to contractors
and suppliers. Beginning in 19è51 the Government assumed responsibility for
meeting RE1xFE's annual operating deficit.  Although RENIE's def"icits since
then have been reimbursed by the Government, the oayments are frequently de.-
layed and on December 31, 1963 an amount of Pts 0.9 billion was outstanding.
The 1954 arrangement also provided for the liquidation of iRENPFEts cumulative
operating deficits as well as settlement of such mutual debts as the funds
owed by the Government to RENFE for the repair and reconstrmctiop of war damage
and the carriage of mail, unpaid 'taxes owed by RENFE to the Government and the
settlement of RENFE's debt to the Bank of Spain. For a number of reasons, this
liquidation did not take place and the amounts still appear on the 1963 balance
sheet (see Table 8). However, arrangements for a definitive settlement have
now been reached and the Government has agreed that if the balance is in its
favor it iill be converted into an equity contribution. This settlement is
included in the Plan of Action.



51.       Between 1946 and 1957, RENFE was authorized to issue 4 percent bonds
amounting to Pts 14.9 billion to finance capital investme~nts.  Of this amount
Pts 820 million was not sold and Pts lo0 billion had been repaid, leaving Pts
13.0 billion outstanding.  The bonds are generally for fifty years and will
mature between 1999 and 2007; they are guaranteed by the Governmlent0
52.       Beginning in 1957, RENFE no longer issued its own bonds. Instead,
the Government advanced funds for investment to RENFE at 4 percent interest5
although in practice the interest could not be paid since RENFE operated at a
loss. The advances outstanding on Decemboer 31, 1963 amounted to about Pts 15
billion,  The Government has agreed to convert this amount into an equity
contribution and no interest will be payable on it,   (In Table 8 it is included
in the equity.) A similar arrangement will apply to advances in 1964, as well
as to funds provided b- the Government for the Investment Plan in the fut.ureO
53.       There has also been a small amount of foreign borrowing, U.S. loans
include an Export-Import Bank loan in 1957 of Pts 481 mi'lion 'US'f8 million)
to be amortized over 12 years at 5.75 percent interest; and a Development
Loan fund borrowing of Pts 890 million (Ub"lL.9 million) in 1959 at 3.5 per-
cent interest for 20 years. Although not fully drawn downv, these loans have
been partially amortized and the amount outstanding for both loans on Decemqber
31, 1963 was Pts 700 million (UM`11.7 million).
5is       RENFE's assets consist primarily of the facilities taken over from
previous companies and new investments made subsequently.   r'ixed assets are
recorded at their originaL cost to the Government without deducting deprecia-
tion since it is not charged to operating expenses. A revaluation of the
assets as of December 31, 1963 has recently been completed. It involved
calculating the gross replacement value of depreciable assets as of this date,
from which were deducted cumulative depreciation as well as the write-off of
uneconomic assets (e.g. obsolete steam locomotives) to be replaced during the
Modernization Program. The individual steps are shown below:
Depreciable Assets                                 Pts Billions
a) Recorded cost - December 31, 1963                               43.9
b) Gross replacement value January 1, 1964                       183.6
c) Less depreciation to January 1, 1964                          127,2
d) Net replacement value on January 1, 1964                       56.4
e) Wirite-off of depreciable uneconomic assets to
be replaced during Modernization Plan 1964-73                  13.2
f) Net replacement value after write-off on
January 1, 1964                                                43.2
55.       In the future, depreciation will be based on replacement value rather
than original cost. RENFE has accepted the SOFRERAIL recormmendation that the
balance sheet will not show the value of land, since its present replacement
value is not known.



- 15 .
56.       Budgets Accounting and Auditing. The procedures followed for pre-
paring the oudget and controlling expenditures are satisfactory.   In gan-
eral, the initial responsibility is in the individual departments of RENFE
and their drafts are coordinated by the Economic and Finance Department,
57.       The accounts are kept in a manner which appears to be too decen-
tralized and complex, and the procedures of the accounting offices of various
departments are insufficiently uniform. Decentralization leads to duplication
of effort and the employment of excessive staff since it prevents adequate
mechanization; at present, IBM equipment is used only for preparing the pay-
roll, monthly summaries of the accounts and various operating statistics.
58.       The present procedures are an amalgamation of the different systms
used by the various predecessor private companies and do not provide enough
information for effective management controjs, The accounting system is now
being reorganized and imoroved.  As part of the Plan of Act'iioi, RENFE has
agreed to establish a modern commercial accounting system to show thle finan-
cial results more accurately and to provide general and unit costs of oper-
ations necessary for management. Greater mechanization will permLt a
substantial reduction in supervisory and other personnel.
590       External auditors are not employed at present.   Procedures for
internal auditing are similar to those used by various departments of the
Government and appear adequate. Provision for external auditing in the
future is included in the new RENFE statute,
IV. THE INVESTMENT PLAN
A. Introduction
60.       The measures discussed above are all parts of a comprehensive
Modernization Program for the 10-year period 1964-73, prepared by RENFE
together with its consultants. The main objective of the Program is to
transform REIFE from an antiquated enterprise with a huge backlog of renewals
and maintenance, operating at a large deficit and providing inadequate
service, into an efficient and modern railway system earning a reasonable
return on its investment, This goal is to be attained through a comprehen-
sive set of measures which have been agreed upon between the Government,
REINE and the Bank, including (a) reorganizing and strengthening management
and supervision; (b) modernizing train and yard operations and maintenance
procedures; (c) closing down uneconomic lines and stations; (d) adjusting
rates and fares; (e) reducing staff; and (f) improving transport coordination.
B. The Investment Plan
61.       In addition to the above measures, the Program includes a large and
detailed Investmnent Plan. Its cost is estimated at Pts 62 billion (about US$1
billion equivalent); of this, about 45 percent has been earmarked for the



- 16 -
first four years (1964-67), which cover the period of the National Develop-
ment Plan, A peak in expenditures would be reached in 1966 with Pts 8.3
billion; thereafter they would decrease gradually to Pts 2.1 billion in
1973 (see Table 10), Depending on futuwe traffic growth, utilization of
equipment and other factors, it may be desirable to increase the Invrestment
Plan in the last 2 to 3 years in order to provide for a more rapid replace-
ment of steam locomotives and overage rolling stock; in any case, the Plan
will be reviewed periodically, An estimate of 8 percent is included for
overhead costs. A contingency allowance is included at 5 percent in the
first four years, 10 percent in the following three years and 15 percent in
the last three years of the Plan; this reflects the greater uncertainty of
the expenditure forecast in the more distant future,
62,       The Plan is divided about equally between the modernization of
motive power and rolling stock, on the one hand, and of track,structures and
other fixed installations, on the other. The main items of the Plan include
renewal of 7,000 km of track, representing almost half of RENFEEs total;
construction of 6 new marshalling yards and the modernization of 9 secondary
yards; procurement of 655 diesel and 70 electric locomotives, which will
permit elimi.nation of all overage steam locomotives; and purchase of 1h,000
freight cars, 604 passenger cars and 220 diesel and electric rail car sets.
It is planned to electrify 1,100 kms of line, which is primarily to complete
the program already under way and to provide inter-connections between
electrified setions.  Also included are modernization and constnrction of
maintenance facilities and stores for locoiJotives and rolling stock; modi-
fication of main freight stations; acquisition and installation of telecom-
munications, signalling and central traffic controls; construction of housing
and of training centers; and procurement of sundry mechanical equipment for
maintenance and for service traffic.
63,       The proposed Investment Plan would not only modernize RENFE, but
also expand its capacity for the expected growth in traffic (see Annex C)X
It has been based on cautious assumptions regarding the utilization of roll-
ing stock. As execution of the Plan proceeds, modification of its composi-
tion may become necessary. If, for example, traffic growth should be less
than anticipated, and equipment utilization better, the need for motive power
and rolling stock would be reduced in thie long run.  However, the proportion
of obsolete equipment in use is so high, and the planned renewal so gradual,
that this would not necessarily influence the Plan for the first 4 or 5 years,
in these circumstances, acquisition of rolling stock as now planned would
merely accelerate dieselization and rolling stock renewal, which would be
highly desirable. The Plan is technically sound and has taken into accouilt
adequately the availability of skills. No important changes will be made in
the Plan without prior consultation with the 3ank.   The Government will in.
corporate the 10-year Investment Plan into a law which is to be enacted be-
fore the loan becomes effective.
64.       RENFE has agreed to use consultants to help implement parts of the
Program. Consultants have recently completed a study on the safety of train
operations and are currently helping RENFE in its studies on the possibili-
ties of closing low traffic lines. RENFE will employ consultants in thcse
fields in which RENFE and the Bank agree this is necessaryo



- 17 _
C. The Project
65.       The Project consists of the first two years of the l4odernization
Program (196h-65), and the proposed loan would finance about one-third
of the commitments during this period. It would finance the following:
Estimated Cost US$
Million Equivalent
1,500,000 Ties                             6.3
925 Switches                               3.6
55 Diesel shunting locomotives             6.1
185 Passenger cars                        15.9
4,350 Freight cars                        22,3
Machine tools                              2.8
Signalling and communications equipment    o.6
Equipment for marshalling yards            4.3
Contingencies                              3.1
Total       65.0
The allowance of 5 percent for contingencies is considered sufficient
since unit prices are based on recent local contract prices which may be
somewhat higher than international prices.
66.       All goods financed under the proposed loan would be acquired
through international competitive bidding. In evaluating oids, Spanish
manufacturers will be granted a 15 percent margin of preference in lieu of
customs duties which are generally substantially higher; this procedure
was followed in the recent Spanish highway loan.
D. Financing the Plan
67.       The funds for the Investment Plan will come from three sources:
retained earnings, Government grants, and foreign borrowing. Of the total
plan of Pts 62.0 billion, Government grants for capital investment would
finance Pts 26.6 billion; Pts 12.2 billion would come from external
borrowing, of which the proposed loan would provide Pts 3.9 billion; and
the remainder would come from depreciation (see Table 15). The provision
of funds is to be guaranteed by the Investment Plan law, in which the
Government undertakes to provide the funds estimated to be necessary in
each of the ten years of the Investment Plan and to make suitable arrange-
ments to provide any additional funds should they be needed.



- 18 -
V. ECONGI.C JUSTIFICATTON
A. Introduction
68.       The essence of the economic justification for RETFE's Investment
Plan is that a significant part of the nation's traffic can be carried most
economically by railway, that this traffic is likely to increase in the next
10 years, and, most important, that the Investment Plan will make it possible
to carry the traffic at substantially lower costs and improve the quality of
service,
B. Increased Efficiency
69.       Studies made jointly by REANFE and tne appraisal mission inaicate
that approximately three-quarters of the Investment Plan of Pts 62 billion,
or about Pts 46 billion, is to increase RETEE's efficiency and abouT one-
qularter is to enlarge its capacity for the estimated traffic growth in 196L- 73.
70.       The increased efficiency is measured quite directly by the expected
sharp decline in operating costs durLng the 10 years: in 1963, the average
operating cost (excluding depreciation) per traffic unit was Pts 1.26; in 1973
it is estimated at Pts 0..85 at constant prices. (one ton/km is one traffic
unit, while a passenger/kmn is only one-half a traffic unit; this weighting is
based on relative operating costs.)   This rneans that as a result of the Moder-
nization Program the operatin- costs for the 1973 traffic level would be re-
duced by about one-third from P-ts 20.0 billion to Pts 13.5 billion, at con-
stant prices; this is based on the conservative assumption that costs would
not rise if no investments were made (see paragraph 7Ib). When this benefit
is measured against the investraent cost, and assuming conservatively no traf-
fic increase after 1973, the return on Whe investmrent is about 15 percent du-
ring its average useful life of' 25 years. This is a satisfactory return in
Spain.
71.       The above calculation can necessarily indicate only the arders of
magnitude involved and it may be useful to indicate three important qualifi-
cations which partially off-set each other; their net effect, however, is that
tae rate of return is probably. substantially higher than 15 percent.
a)   On the one hand, in the above calculation all benefits were attri-
buted to the new investrments, even though some arise from other measures of
the :4odernization Program which could theoretically be made even without the
new investments. It is not possible to separate the effects of the two types
of improvements statistically, but it is clear that by far the largest propor-
tion arises from the new investments and it is in any case unlikely that. the
others would in fact be made witnout the new investments.
b)   On the other hand, the calculation fails to take into account the
fact that in the absence of the Investment Plan, operating costs would not re-
main stable, but would increase. It is difficult to distinguish between



- 19 -
replacements which lead to improvements and those which merely maintain the
existing level of efficiencj. On the assumption that funds equal to or±o-
half of the depreciation in 1964-73 are needed to nainbain the existing level
of efficiency, mo.e than Pts 12 billion of the Investment Plan could be said
to prevent ope.-ating costs from rising. If allowance is made for this, the
rate of return on the Program wou'd be 18 percent, compared to 15 percent in
the more conservative calculation presented above,
c)   A third consideration is that a part oL the Investment Plan is to
improve the ouality of service, especially increased confort from the elinina-
tion of third-class passenger service, substantial time savings, and greater
safety. These improvements are not included in the above rate of return cal-
culation.  The estimates of future revenue as3ume that in 1968, when the third-
class is abolished, passengers wil2 be willing to pair an additional Pts 1.1
billion for the increased comfort; this is a very substantial benefit - about
25 percent as large as the benefits from increased efficiency in that year.
As to time savings, a moderate increase in speeds of 10 percent from 40 to 44
Icn per hour uould save 25-30 million passenger hours per year, The time sa-
ving for freight would also be considerable, On balance, it is quite likely
that an allowance for the various qualitative improvements might increase the
rat.e of return by perhaps one-third.
72.       The gain in productivity between 1963 and 1973 for indliidual sec-
tors of the Plan is shown on the table below. The gains range from 125 per-
cent for motive power, primarily because of the dieselization, to 18 percent
for passenger service, where a considerable part of the investment is to iTn-
prove the quality of service rather thlan reduce costs.
Percentage
1963   1973   Improvement
(000o
Personnel (traPfic units per emplo;nee)       100    190       90
Motive Power (traffic units per
locomotive)            3h400  7,700      125
Passenger Service (passenger/km per
passenger car)        2,560 39000        18
Freight Service (ton/km per freight car)      115    165       43
73.       Separate calculations of economic benefits have also been made by
b0FREZAIL for some of the individual investments. The improvement of marshall-
ing yards is estimated to cost about Pts 2.7 billion and lead to cost reductions
of Pts 430 million annually from savings in freight cars, engires and person-
nel; the rate of return during a 25-year period would be about 15 percent. Elec-
trification of the Avila-iNiranda de Ebro line is estimated to involve invest-
ments of about Pts 2,6 billion, or about the same as the cost of dieselization,
but the annual operating savings are about Pts 200 million greater for elec-
trification. SOFRERAIL estimates that replacing the existing antiquated fleet



- 20 -
of steam locomotives by diesels will bring a return of at least 30 percentz
C. Traffic Growth
74.       About one-quarter of the Investment Plan is to enlarge RENFEts
capacity for future traffic growth. Estimates of RENIFEts future freight
traffic are presented in Table 11 and of passenger traffic in Table 12; the
assumptions on which these estimates are based are explained in Annex C.
According to these forecasts, commercial freight traffic (pre-1964 classifi-
cation) is estimated to increase between 1963 and 1973 from 6.2 to 9.9 billion
ton/km, or about 4.6 percent annually. The estimated increase in passenger
traffic is from 10.1 to 12.0 billion passenger/hnm, or less than 2 percent
annually.  These estimates are based largely on studies made by SOFRERAIL and
certain revisions by RENIF, primarily a reduction in the freight traffic
forecast. They compare to an estimated annual increase of gross national pro-
duct of 6 percent in 1964-68 and 5 percent in 1969-73. After 1973 traffic is
assumed to remain constant at the 1973 level. In view of the traffic develop-
ments in the last 10 years and the very large investments beinc made in high-
way transport (see paragraph 11), the above forecasts are conservative, but
riot unduly so.
75.       Because of the great difficulties of forecasting railway traffic
for the next 10 years, it may be useful to point out that the economic jus-
tification for the Investment Plan does not depend heavily on the traffic
forecast. About one-quarter of the Plan is to exoand capacity to handle
larger traffic volumes. But since the Plan had to be kept down in the earlier
years because of technica'. limitations, a lower traffic growth would make it
possible to accelerate investments making for increased productivity, such Ss
dieselization, (as contrasted to investments needed to increased capacity),
and to lower investments in later years (see paragraph 63).
VI. FUTURE EARNINGS AhID FINANCES
76.       RENFE's estimated future revenues and expenses are shown in Table
13, its balance sheets in Table 14, and the cash flow in Table 15. The Go-
vernment, RENFE and the Bank have agreed that the improvement of RENFEts finan-
cial position should take place in three stages:  The f4; target would be
met when RENFEts revenues will cover all ca%_ ppendituIel, including interest;
the second when depreciation is covered as weli; in the final g$age RENFE will
become able to earn a reasonable return on its net fixed asset 3 As shown in
the table below, the first target is expected to be reached in 1968 (column 4) 
and the second in 1971 (column 5); the third stage would be well under way by,)P,
1973.  (The table is in Pts billions; for details see Table 13M)



- 21 -
Net
Income or      Net Income
Operating      Net          Loss after     or
Expenses       Operating    Interest,      r oss after
Includirng     Revenues     Before        Interest &
Year   Revrenues  Derciation     or Deficit   Depreciation  Depreciation
Col.l      Col.2          Col3        Col,4         Col.5
1964     13.0       16.9         - 3.9         - 3.0         - 14.5
1965     14.2       17.0         - 2.8         - 1.8         - 3.5
1966     1L.∞       17.2         - 2 3         - 1.1         - 3.0
1967     15.8       17.14        - 1.6         - 0.3_        - 2.5
1968     17.3       17.6         - 0.2           1.2         - 1.2
1969     18.0       17.9           0.2          1.7          - 0.9
1970     19.0       18.1           0.9           2,6          - 0,2  W
1971     19.8       18.4           1o4           3.3          0∞3
1972     20.14      18.6           1.7           3,8           0X7
1973     21e7       18.8           2.9           5.2           1.9
19614-73 1714.1    177.8         - 307          11.14        -12.9
77.       This forecast incorporazes the expected results of the IHoderniza.
tion Program. In addition, the Government and RENFE have agreed to take
all reasonable measureo,necessary to achieve these stages by the dates
specidle
78.       As shown in Table 13J the operating ratio is expected to decline
from 130 in 1964 to 101 in 1968 and 87 by 1973; this would be a substantial
improvement and by 1973 the ratio could be considered satisfactory. The
rate of return on net fixed depreciable assets will become positive in 1969
and reach 3.6 percent in 1973. This would represent satisfactory progress
toward reaching a reasonable return.
79.       Earnings after depreciation will become sufficient to cover inte-
rest fully for the first time in 1971 and by 1973 interest will be earned 2.8
times. The debt service will be covered for the first time in 1968 and near-
ly three times by 1973. The current ratio and the liquid ratio will remain
virtually constant between 1964 and 1972 at 1.3 and 0.8 respectively. but
will increase sharply in 1973 to 1.9 and 1.2 respectively. The debt equity
ratio is estimated to improve during the period from 31/69 in 1964 to 26/74
in 1973, While the current and liquid ratios through 1972 are not favorable,
they do not in this case adequately reflect RENFEts ability to meet its cash
needs. For one, the Government pays REtNFE for its deficits quarterly in
advance, so that RENFE's cash position through most of the year is better
than on the last day of the year; secondly, its debts are guaranteed by the
Government. When these factors are taken into consideration, RENFE's
position is satisfactory.
80.       RENFEts cash needs and sources of funds in 1964-73 are summarized
below (see Table 15 for details):



- 22 -
Pesetas
(bI lT-on-)
Cash Requirements
Investment in Miodernization Plan             62,0
Interest on debt                               9.2
Repayment of debt                               6.1
Additional working capital                      1.3
Appropriation to reserve                        0.7
Total cash requirements                        79.3
Cash Available
RENFE                                          20.6
Goverrn,ient                                   L6.3
Loans
Proposed IBRD loan                           3.9
Future borrowings                            8.3
Sub-total                                      12e,2
Total cash available                           79.1
Decrease in Cash Position                                 0.2
81.       As shown above, total cash requirements during 1964-73 would be
Pts 79.3 billion, of which Pts 62.0 billion would be for the Investment
Plan and the remainder largely for debt service and additional worlcing
capital needs. About one-fourth of these requirements, or Pts 20.6 billion,
would be finalced internally.  The GoTer±iment would provide Pts 46.3 bil-
lion, of which Pts 26.6 billion is for capital irnvestments, Pts 10.8 bil-
lion for the operating deficit (including depreciation) and the remainder
lor debt service. The Government has agreed to finance the operating de-
ficit, including depreciation, and to provide funds for debt service to the
extent required. The Govermnentts commitment to finance the Investment
Plan has been described in paragraph 67. Loans would finance Pts 12.2
billion (about US$200 million equivalent), of which the proposed Banlk loan
would be Pts 3.9 billion.  The additional borrowings would not be required
until after 1965; if satisfactory progress is made during this period, con-
sideration would then be given to further lending by the Bank. RENF! has
agreed that it will not undertake additional long-term borrowing without
prior consultation with the Bank. The new statute provides for the establish-
ment of adequate operating and investment reserves out of net profits before
any distribution is made to the Government.



- 23 _
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIIDEND)ATIONS
82.       The 1964-73 Modernization Program for 1REFE is designed to reha-
bilitate the railway and to make it an efficient enterprise that can earn
a reasonable return.  It is well planned, tecnnically sound, and will yield
a high economic return. RENFE and the Spanish Government, with the assist-
ance of consultants, are well able to execute the Program. Agreement has
been reached between the Government, RENEE and the Bank on the implementation
of the Program through a detailed Plan of Action (see Anrnex A)) as wiell as
through measures concerning a new statute for RENFEP, a 10-year Investment
PLan, the future financial viability of RIENFE and the discontinuance of
service on uneconomic lines.
83.       The project would provide a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$65 million equivalent to RENFE for a term of 20 years, including a 4-year
period of grace. Before the loan becomes effective the foilowing steps
wi'l have to be completed:
a)   enactment of a statute for RENFE satisfactory to the Bank (para-
graph 18);
b)   enactment of a law incorporating the Investment Plan satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 63);
c)   a decision on the closing of 200 km of uneconomic lines (paragraph
37);
d)   application of commercial rates to Government traffic and mail
(paragraph 45);
e)   adoption of a system of Government compensation to RENFE for loss
of revenue on passenger services subsidized by RZNFE (paragraph 47);
f)   settlement of mutual debts between RENFE and Governaent and con-
version of the balance in favor of the Government into an equity contribution
(paragraph 50); and
g)   conversion of Govermaent advances to RENFE since 1957 for invest-
ments into an equity contribution (paragraph 50).
July 21, 1964



ANNE,X A
THE PLAN OF ACTION
Transport Coordination
1.   Review of the tax on highway passenger services paralleling
the railway (canon de coir.cidencia), by the middle of 1966.
2.   :Study and revision of fuel prices in line with a policy of
ensuring neutrality among the various modes of transport,
to be completed by the middle of 1966.
3.   Nlore effective regulation and policing of highway transport,
including:
(a)  establishment of minimum entry conditions for highway
transport pri,marily to assure adequate financial
responsibility, early in 1965;
(b) establishment of more effective weight and size limi-
tations, early in 1965;
(c) placing into effect during 1965 of a better system of
inspection to assure the sound mechanical condition of
vehicles;
(d)  requirement of written contracts for all highway freight
services in a prescribed 2orri.; early in 1965;
(e) more extensive regulation of freight forwarders, such
as assuring adequate performance bonds, early in 1965;
(f) regulation of adequacy of services which claim to be
operated on regular schedules and at fixed rates,
early in 1965;
(g)  assurances that highway transport meet diiidmum labor
conditions, such as maximum working hours and social
security payments, early in 1965;
(h)  establishment of minimum insurance requirements, early
in 1965;
(i) establishment of a uniform accounting system for high.
way transport enterprises, by the middle of 1965; and
(j)  study of rates and tax policy (fiscalidad) applicable
to all modes of transportation, to be completed by the
middle of 1966,



ANNEX A
Page 2
Operations
1.   Reduction in labor force from January 1, 1963 by about 21,000
permanent and 2,500 temporary workers, by the end of 1968;
and by an additional 11,000 permanent and 2,000 temporary
workers, by the end of 1973.
2.   Improved recruitment and training of personnel.
3.   Consolidation of existing marshalling yards and construction
of 6 new ones, phasing out and replacement of old repair
shops for steam locomotives by a smaller number of modern
repair shops, and discontinuance of service at uneconomic
stations.
4.   Modernization of pick-up and delivery of less-than-carload
traffic by the establishment of central stations, to and
from which parcels will be delivered by trucks.
5.   Improved safety by stricter regulation and supervision.
6.   Reduction of three passenger classes to two by 1968.
Rates and Fares
1.   Revision of rate and fare structure to relate it more close-
ly to transport costs.
2.   Establishment of a costing office and a costing system.
3.   Increase of less-than-carload rates in stages until 1969
by a total of 20 percent.
4.   Application of normal commercial rates to the Guarantor's
traffic and mail.
5.   Increase of rates and fares by 1.5 percent per annum, begin-
ning in 1965, reflecting improvement in services.
6.   Adjustments in fares leading to an increase of passenger
revenues by about 12 percent as part of inauguration of
two class system.
7.   Increase of passenger fares by 6.5 percent in 1970, and by
10 percent in 1973.
8.   Compensation by the Guarantor to the Borrower for loss of
revenue on passenger services provided by the Borrower at
less than normal commercial rates established by the
Guarantor.



ANNEX A
Psage 3
IV.     Finances
1.   Incorporation, free of any lien, of the Govermnent's con-
tributions (dotaciones) to the Bori7ower made up to date
of the Loan Agreement into the equity (patrim.onio) of the
Borrower.
2.   All funds to be made available for capital expenditures
after the date of the Loan Agreement by the Guarantor to
the Borrower to be made in the form of an equity contri-
bution (aportacion patrimonial).
3.   Settlement of mutual debts between the Borrower and the
Guarantor up to December 31, 1964 and incorporation, free
of any lien, of the debt balance, if any, in favor of the
Guarantor into an equity contribution (apcrtacion Fa tri-
monial) of the Guarantor to the Borrower 7s capital.
4.   Revaluation, from time to time, of Borrower's assets to
reflect realistic and economic values.
5.   Establishment of a modern commercial, and, to the exten&
practicable, mechanized, accounting system, to reflect
the operations and finencial position of the Borrower
accurately and to provide the Borrower's management with
adequate financial information.



ANNEX B
GENERAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF R.E.N.F.E.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
STUIE AN                      IAC                                      N
PANNING        LEA            AN                                   TRAININ   l
ACC  O   PEAI O
INSTALLATIONS                    CNSTEWOS          PRTO
AND STORES                      CNTUTOS          OEAIN
STORES         WAYK AND                  AND      COORDINATION |  PTRRATINON  TRAFFIC l
I  SOUTHERN  l            l  NORTHERN
REGION                       REGION
MADRID              ~~~~MADRID
d   6th ZONE
4th ZONE                   7th ZONE 
_ VALENCIA |LEON                      _
5th ZONE
BARCELONA
IBRD-23701



ANNEX C
RENFF'S FUTTJRF T'RANIC, 1964-73
1.      Estimates of RFNIT's future f-ei-ht tra.fic ale presented in
Table 11 ard of passenger traffic in Table 12. These estimates are
based largely on st-dies by SOFIEFJIL and revisions made by REM'FE. The
assulmptions on wlich these forec2svs are based are explained below.
Freight Traffic
2.      As showqn in Table 11, RENFS's commercial traffic is divided into
three parts. There is first the usual commercial traffic. Secondly
there has been a substantial amount of departmental tra2fic which as of
Januiary 1, lQ64 is classified as commercial traffic.  This change arises
from a change in R]DIFE's purchasing method described in paragraph l of
the report. The third item is mail.   Tne disc-ission below is based on
the pre-1964 classification of comnercial traffic primarily in order to
permit comparison with pror years.
3.      Commercial freight traffic is estimated to increase between 1963
and 1973 from 6.2 to 9.9 billion ton/r,, or about 4.6 percent annually.
The major considerations leading to this estimate   are:
a) Gross national product is assumed to grow by 6 percent annually
in 196h-68 and 5 percent in 196?-73. The 19o4-67 Development Plana is
based on a 6 percent ;rowth Lactor.  Growth in the last 10 years has av-
eraged about 5 percent, but 7 percent in the last 3 years.
b) Growth in M-F E and highway freight tra'fic combined has
averaged about 4 percent annually since '953, -ihich is somewhat less
than the grow,th in national product.  But REINF,T2ts share has declined
between 1953 and 1963 from 57 percent to 32 percent; the rate of decline
has slowed dotJn considerably since 1960. The forecast for the fuxture
depends heavil<y on ivhether the sharp decline in traffic between 1958 and
1960 was a teirporarr or permanent phenomenon.  S0--F'-AIL assumed that it
will prove to be primarily temporary, reflecting a recession in the
economr accompanied by an untimely and substantial fare increase, Ac-
cordinglir it based its forecast on a modest decline in RENFE's percentage
of traffic to about 30 percent by 1973.  RENrE, on the other hand, be-
lieves that the 1958-60 fall has also important permanent aspects, espe-
cially increasing highway competition, and therefore estimates a further
decline bv 1973 to about 26 percent.  The difference between the two
assumptions by 1973 is 11.4 compared to 9.9 billion ton/km. The more
conservative estimate appears more realistic and has been accepted in
this report.
c) RENrE has also made a series of studies correlating its
tra'fic growth directlr to tl,e growth in national income, making various
assumptions about the relationship between national income and traffic
and about the temporary or permanent nature of the 1953-60 traffic



ANNEX C
Page 2
decline. These studies indicate a traffic in 1973 ranging from a low of
9.4 to a high of 11.2 billion ton/km. The forecast actually selected of
9.9 billion ton/kn is thus at the lower end of this range of estimates.
d) SOFRERAIL has also studied the future trend of individual ma-
jor commodities carried by RENFE. These studies are based largely on in.
creased production as forecast in the Development Plan and extrapolated
thereafter. They show between 1962 and 1973 the following traffic increases
(in percent):
Minerals                 180
Petroleum products       150
Fertilizer               120
Cement                   100
Coal                      50
Cereals                    0
The growth of traffic calculated on the basis of individual commodities
accounting for about three-quarters of the total traffic is reasonably con-
sistent with the more global calculations described above.
Passenger Traffic
4.        Passenger traffic is estimated to increase between 1963 and 1973
from 10.0 to 12.0 billion passenger/kin, or about 2 percent annually which
is reasonable. Traffic in 1963 was, however, substantially above the basic
trend line; the annual increase over the 1962 level would be about 3 percent,
The major considerations underlying this estimate are:
a) The growth in gross national product as explained under freight
traffic above.
b) The 2 percent estimated annual increase (or 3 percent above the
1962 level) is difficult to compare with the developments in the last 13 years
because they fall into three distinct periods: a slow but steady growth
between 1950 and 1958 averaging somewhat more than 2.5 percent annually; a
drastic fall between 1958 and 1960 of 8 percent annually; and annual increases
since then averaging more than 10 percent. The forecast assumes that the
1958-60 decline was partly a temporary phenomenon reflecting a recession in
the economy accompanied by an untimely and substantial fare increase, but
that it also reflects the increased and permanent competition from highway
traffic which expanded even during the recession,
c) RENFE's share of combined RENFE and inter-city highway traffic
declined between 1953 and 1963 from 57 to 36 percent. The forecast assumes
a further decline to about 31 percent by 1968 and 26 percent by 1973.
d) During the 1964-73 period, the basic trend line has been modified
to take into account primarily the impact on fares of the adjustments result-
ing from the shift of the three to a two-class system and direct increases
proposed for 1970 and 1973; in those years no traffic increase is assumed,



TABLE 1
SPAIN
FREIGHT TRAFFIC, BY iMODE OF TRANSPCRT, 1953-63
(in billion ton/km)
Railway                             Coastal
Year          (RENFE)           Highway*          Shipping**          Total
1953            7.6                5.7              10.2               23.5
1954            7.2                5.8               9.3              22.3
1955            7.1                6.1               9.5              22.7
1956            7.7                6.8               9.7              24.2
1957            8.0                7.3              11.6              26.9
1958            8.o                7.8              12.0              27.8
1959            6.8                8.5              12.0              27.3
1960            5.3                9.3              11.5              26.1
1961            5.3               11,2              12.6              29.1
1962            5.8               12.3              1h.3              32.4
1963            6.2               13.4              15.0***8          34,6-E HF
*    The highway--da*atare rough  estimates recently prepared by the Ministry
of Pulic Works- -They are generally somewhat higher than earlier esti-
matesj though the-growth trend is about the same.   They include inter-
city traffic¢ o6nly.
->*  The coastal---shipping figures through 1960 are provided 'oy the M4erchant
Mari-ie- Tnefat erfigures are estimated on the basis of tonnage data.
The f-ig  $-}-n dtCAMPSA tankers and traffic to and from the Baleares
and Oainary iL<iids.
*~*< Estimate,



TABLE 2
SPAIN
PASSENGER TRAFFfC  BY      OTANSP     1RT,  953
(in billion passenger/Io
Railway           Highway*                Airlines
Year     (RENFE)      (Inter-city Traffic)     (Domestic only)     Total
1953       8.0                 5.9                    0.2          14.1
1954       7.9                 6.3                    0,2          14.4
1955       8.0                 7.3                    0.2          15.5
1956       8.6                 8.6                    0.3          17.5
1957       8.6                10.1                    0.5          19.2
1958       8.7                11.0                    o.6          20.3
1959       8.5                12.3                    047          21.5
1960       7.3                13.1                    0.8          21.2
1961       7.8                14.6                    0.9          23.3
1962       8.8                16.3                    1,2          26.3
1963      10.1                18.2                    1.4          29.7
* The highway figures are rough estimates prepared for the earlier years
by the i4inistry of Public lWorks and for more recent years by SOFREHAIL.
The vlnistry has recently mnade new estimates for 1961 and 1962 based
on more detailed traffic suArveys, but these estimates cannot be related
to the data in earlier years, end have therefore not been used for re-
cent years in this report.  According to these latest estimeates, the
traffic is about twice the level indicated above, but the growth trend
in thie last decade is probably the same.



TABLE 3
SPAIN
R2NF2 MOTIVE P%jT.R STOCK
December 31, 1962
Type of
Motive              Type of
Power               Service                  Number
( Iain Line                2,680
Steam*            (
( Switching                  470
3,150
( Locomotives                318
Electric
( Railcars                   177
495
(           (Talgo             4
( Main Line (
Diesel            (           (Others           41
( Switching                  113
158
(TAF                         50
Railcars          (
C Others                     103
153
Agpe Distribution        Number
0-10 years               270
10-20   "                 620
20-30   "                 750
Over 30   "               1,510



TABLE 4
SPAIN
RENFr PASSENGER AND FRTIG:IT CAR STCCK
January 1963
PASSENGER CARS
4-axled cars   -            2-axled cars
Age Group           All Steel   Wooden Body     All Steel  IWooden Body     Total
Older than 40 years                 495                        480            975
35 - 40 years                       467                         72            539
30 - 35 years                       419                        206            625
Tess than 30 years   1,036                         100                      12136
Total      1,036        1,381            100         758          3,275
FREIGHT CARS
Age Group                     Number
Older than 40 years           15,464
35 - 40 years                 11,489
30 - 35 years                 11,803
Less than 30 years            29,2h4
Total               68,ooo



TABLE 5
SPAIN
RENFE FEREIGHT TRAFUFIC, 1950-63*
Ton/kIa  (billion)       Tons (million)      Average Distance
Year     CoTmiercial  Service     Commercial   Service    Commercial   (km)
1950        6.4         0.9          25           5             256
1951        7.0         0.9          25           5             280
1952        7.6         0.9          28           5             271
1953        7.6         1.1          28           7             271
1954        7.2         1.1          27           7             267
1955        7.1         1.1          27          6              263
1956        7.7         0.9          29           5             266
1957        8.0         1.2          32          6              250
1958        8.o         1.3          33          6              242
1959        6.8         1.6          29           5             234
1960        5.3         1.8          26           5             201
1961        5.3         2.0          27          6              196
1962        5.8         1.8          26           7             223
1963        6.2         1.6          27           8             230
* Including mail, which has grown from about 0.1 to 0.2 billion ton/Ian
during the period; without mail the average distance would be about 2
to 4 km less in recent years.



SPAIN
RENFE CONMERCIAL FRFIGHT TRAFFIC, BY MAJOR COWODITIFS, 1953-62
1  9 5   3           1  9  58              1   9  6  2       1  9 6   2*
Tons                 Tons                  Tons              Ton/km
Commodity                 (million)  Percent   (million)  Percent    (million) Percent   (billion)  Percent
Coal                         5.7        20        7.8        24        6.0        23        1.4        23
Mineral Ores                 0.9         3        2.7         8        3.0        12        0.6        10
Petroleum                    0.6         2        1.5         5        2.0         8        0.6        10
Fertilizer                   1.7         6        2.5         7         1.6        6        0.5         8
Sugar, sugar beets, etc.     2.1         8        1.4         4        1.6         6        0.2         3
Cement, lime, etc.           2.3         9        2.4         7         1.6        6        0.3         5
Grain, flour, etc.           2.1         8        2.7         8        1.0         4        0.3         5
Iron and steel products      0.8         3        0.8         3        0.7         3        0.2         3
Wine, etc.                   0.8         3        0.7         2         0.4        2        0.2         3
Chemicals and drugs          0.4         2        0.4         1        0.3         1        0.1         1
Lumber, etc                  1.0         4        0.7         2         0.3        1        0.1         1
Empty private freight cars,
automobiles, etc.         2.8         10        3.9        12        4.0        16        0003        0.04
Other                        6.5        23        5.3        16         3.1       11        1.6        27
Total                       27.7       100       32.8       100       25.6       100        6.1       100
|a
* For the 12 months beginning March 1962, when these data were collected for the first time.



TABLE 7
SPAIN
RENFE PASSENGER TRAFFIC   1950-1963
Passenger/Im     Passengers      Average Distance
Year        (billion)       (million)          (Ian)
1950          7.1              107              66
1951          7.3              108              67
1952          7.9              115              69
1953          8.o              116              69
1954          7.9              114               9
1955          8.o              U7               68
1956          8.6              123              69
1957          8.6              124              69
1958          8.7              128              68
1959          8.5              124              68
1960          7.3              109              68
1961          7.8              115              68
1962          8.8              128              68
1963         10.1              148              67



SPAIN
RENFE BALANCE SHEET. DECEMBER 31, 1963
(Millions of Pesetas)
A s s e t s                                                                                     L i a b i 1 i t i e s
Current Assets                                                                                Current Liabilities
Cash-on-hand:Operations.f                          631.2                                      Accounts payable   operations                             1,445.7
Cash in banks: Operations,'                        853.9                                      Accounts payable   investment program                       630.5
Unspent investmentiesak'ii                         66234                                      Foreign Railway Companies : payable                          33.0
Marketable securit1ies. 4                            3.                                       Interest and amortization                                   249.2
Accounts Receivab]l |'-,eiiansportsation          i 5341.5
Staff-company store 1accounts                       50.9                                      Accrued wages and social security                         1,220.8
Deposits                                            )J81.li4                                  Miscellaneous creditors                                     218.o
Miscellaneou2 reciLlM                              5)S.                                      State-balance mutual debts                                2,011.0
M4aterials and supplhTIs"                        2.lO7.d. 
Total Current Assets                                         5,488.1                          Total Current Liabilities                                            5,808.2
Fixed Assets                                                                                  Long-term Debt
Original                                         5,641.2                                      Outstanding bonds, 1946 - 1957                           12,952.0
Added since RENFE organization:                                                               U. S. Loans                                                 700.1
Permanent way, including stations             11,055.5                                      Eurofima credit                                              76.8
Shops, warehouses',and buildings               1,106.9                                      Bank of Spain credits                                     3,945.6
Communications and safety installations        1,303.7
Motive power and rolling stock                14,399.7                                      Housing Institute                                           294.6
Electrification and electric equipment         7,790.2
Organization expenses                          1,395.7
Miscellaneous                                  1,194.3
Total Fixed Assets                                         43,887.2                         Total Long-term Debt                                                17,969.1
Receivables - not current                                                                     Equity
Spanish Railway Companies                         162.3                                       Reserves:
State - operating deficit 1941 - 1954            3,955.2                                        Amortized obligations                                  l,   7
operating deficit 1955 - 1962              930.3                                        Increase in stores                                       6194
Miscellaneous                                             80.2                    1a
Total Receivables                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Reserves                                                        a
Total Receivables - not current                                5,0o7.8                        Capital:
Original capital                                       5,942.6                     X
Furnished by State sinice organization                22,818.9
Total capital                                           28,761.5
Total Equity                                                         30,645.8
Total Assets                                                    54,423.1                        Total Liabilities                                                    54,423.1



SeHAt8
REEFE FZ 'E.,U Ih ,ND E: ENSES 1958 TO 1963
(4i1llions of Pesetas)
A c t u a 1
For Years Ending December 31
1958       19S9       1960       1961
Operating Revenues
Passenger                                                               2,609.7    2,762.6    3,053.4    3,244.0   3,627.2    4,096.5
Freight
Express service                                                         725.8      752.9      797.3      822.1     915.5      960.8
Regular freight service                                               4,657.9    4,747.6    4,281.6    4,216.6    4,140.4    4,186.3
RONFE materials                                                         iO2.3      426.4      620.6     692.6      851.3      901.6
Total Freight                                                         5,686.0    5,926.9    5,699.5    5,731.3    5,907.2    6,048.7
Mail                                                                      334.9     455.1      526.2      562.4      575.9      599.2
Miscellaneous                                                             4644      444.3      519.8      517.5      586.1      661.3
Total Operating Revenues                                                9,074.6    9,589.0    9,798.9   10,055.2  10,696.5   11,405.8
Operating Expenses
Wages and salaries                                                      2,972.0    2,982.2    3,014.9   2,968.7    4,333.1    5,114.9
Overtime .ages                                                            319.8     298.3      255.8      242.6      262.1      272.7
1onuses and premium pay                                                  681.8      709.7     1.264.6  1.274.4     1.166.1    1 S47.5
Total basic wages and salaries                                          3,973.6    4,080.2    4,535.3   4,485.7    5,761.3    6,935.1
Social Security                                                          298.3      293.8      295.2      294.0      300.1      338.7
Pensions                                                                 267.4      339.1      338.5      375.6      417.3      569.7
Other social changes                                                      222.4     199.4      195.7      203.1      221.9      270.7
Total personsel expense                                                 4,761.7    4,912.5    5,364.7   5,358.4    6,700.6    8,114.2
Coal                                                                    2,269.8    2,009.4    1,815.7   1,960.1    2,092.0    1,921.0
Electric energy                                                          250.9      221.2      264.7      276.0      282.7      300.0
lt. oil                                                                  350.1      384.5      409.7      447.1      493.8      537.2
Diesel oil                                                               105.7      171.8      201.4      199.7      206.5      239.3
Other fuel                                                                23.3       30.,4      30.2       25.2       2.2        18.5
Total power expense                                                     2,999.8    2,817.3   2,721.7    2,908.1    3,098.2    3,016.0
Permanent way materials                                                   258.0     397.1      474.9      454.5      431.8      509.1
ElIectrieal supplies                                                      69.1       87.9       90.7       90.7       80.2       97.5
Other materials and supplies                                            1.045      1.073.4    1,031,7   1.008.1      963.6      984.2
Total materials and supplies                                            1,372.6    1,558.4    1,647.3   1,553.3    1,475.6    1,590.8
Auxiliaay se-vices                                                       n.a.       n.a.       ;.a.       183.4      183.9      333.7
Maintenance of equipment                                                 n.a.       *.a.       n.a.       808.7      877.6      510.6
Other                                                                    n.a.                  n.a        136.6      197.2      174.8
Total work by controct                                                  1,504.5    1,486.9    1,242.1   1,128.7    1,258.7    1,019.1
Insurance                                                                  0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        1.0
Miscellaneous                                                            200.0      232.7      241.0      240.4      311.7      485.9
Total Oporating Expense (Excluding depreciation)                       10,838.9   11,008.1   11,217.1  11,189.2   12,847.1   14,227.0
Deficit before interest                                                 1,764.2    1,419.0   1,418.2    1,133.9    2,150.6    2,821.2
Interest:
On bonds, 1946 - 1957 - 45                                               580.0      5'5.5      572.0      567.1      562.0      555.3
On State funds - ba-k loa-s - 1958-1763                                  110.9)     245.7      336.9      46 .5      467.4      596.7
Less miscellaneous interest ea ned                                  _      )      3      _   13.8       41.6        6.3       36.7
Total net interest charges                                               690.9      787.2      875.1      991.0    1,023.1    1,115.3
Net deficlt after interest                                                2,455.1    2,206.2    2,293.3    2,124.9    3,173.7    3,936.5
Note: Totals do not al.ays equal sum of colponents
because of rounding



SPAIN
RENFE INVrEST1MaT PIAl, 1964-73
(Pts millions)
1964-                                                              1968-
1964      1965     1966     1967      1967      1968     1962      1970     1971      1972     17        1973     Total
I t e m s
Track                                               576    1,088     1,957    2,184     5,805    2,148     2,133    2,094     1,732      940       368     9,415     15,220
Stations                                            194      331       501      715     1,741      644       593      525       271       171       80     2,284      4,025
Diesel Motive Power                                 796    1,635     1,740    1,156     5,32?      992       954      952       915      896       475     5,184     10,511
Diesel Railcars                                     697      537      669       474     2,377      446       413      427       340      -         -       1,626      4,003
Rolling Stock                                       929    1,124     1,230    1,186     4,469    1,030       870      578       449       295      183     3,405      7,874
Shops and Stores                                    213      376       264      267     1,120      156        88       35        10       -        -         289     -.1, 9
Telecommunications                                  114       52       65        60       291       58        50       35        30       30        20       223        514
Safety Installations                                307      197      194       202       900      235       230      215       179      145       120     1,124      2,024
Electrification                                     789      683       508      455     2,435      628       792      755       525       508      430     3,638      6,073
Miscellaneous Projects                              442      620      758       757     2,577      774       702      657       541       398      185     3,257      5,834
Contingencies                                       2        307       364              1.248      6         627       57       686       46S      256     3.265      4.S13
Total                                             5,290    6,950     8,250    7,800    28,290    7,765     7,452    6,850     5,678     3,848    2,117    33,710     62.000



SPAIN
ESTItTE OF FUTURE REiFE FRLIGHT TRAFFIC, 1964-73*
(billion ton/km)
Commercial Traffic
Commercial Traffic      Formerly Classified               Subtotal         Service
Year   (Pre-1964 Classification)        Service)          Mail   Cormercial Traffic   Traffic   Total
1962**            5.8                     1.4              0.2          7.4             0.3      7.7
1963**            6.2                     1.3              0.2          7.7             0.3      8.0
1964              6.8                     1.2              0.2          8.2             0.4      8.6
1965              7.3                     1.3              0.2          8.7             0.4      9.1
1966              7.8                     1.2              0.2          9.2             0.4      9.6
1967              8.3                     1.3              0.3          9.9             0.4     10.3
1968              8.8                     1.1              0.2         10.2             0.4     10.6
1969              9.0                     1.1              0.2         10,3             0.4     10.7
1970              9.2                     1.1              0.3         10.5             0.4     10.9
1971              9.5                     1.0              ∞J3         10.7             0.4     11.1
1972              9.7                     0.9              0.3         10.9             0,3     l112
1973              9.9                     0.8              0.3         11.0             0.3     11.3
'-3
w
*   For explanation see Annex C.                                                                               H
** Actual.



TABLE 12
SPAIN
LSTINATE OF FUTURE PLE,TFE PASSEWNrER TRAFFIC,_964-1973*
Year                             Passenger/km billion
1962-'7                                    8.8
1963-**                                   10.1
1964                                      10.4
1965                                      10.6
1966                                      10.8
1967                                      10.9
1968                                      11.0
1969                                      11.3
1970                                      11.3
1971                                      11.6
1972                                      12.0
1973                                      12.0
* For explanation see Annex C.
->$' Actual.



SPAIN
RENFE ESTIMATED REVENUES,
EXPENSES AND NET INCOME 16 -197
(Billion PesetasJ
1964     1965     1966     1967     1968    1969     1970     1971     19?2     1973     1964 - 1973
OperatinZ Revenues
Passenger                                                           4.87     5.53     5.75     5.98    7.11     7.41     8.10     8.54     8.81     9.86       71.96
Freight                                                             6.88     7.43     7.95     8.62    9.04     9.39     9.70     9.99    10.23    10.52        89,75
Postal Service                                                      o.58     o.60     0.64    o.66     0.70     0.73     0.76     0.80     0.84     0.87        7.18
Miscellaneous                                                       0.65     0.65 0.65 0.65                     06       06 0.6  .6   0.6   .6      0.65         6.o
Subtotal                                                           12.98    14.21    14.99    15.91   17.50    18.18    19.21    19.98    20.53    21.90       175.39
Less revenue - line closures                                                 0.04     0.08    0.12     0.16     0.16     0.17     0.17     0.18     0.18         1.26
Total Operating Revenues                                           12.98    14.17    14.91    15.79    17.34   18.02    19.04    19.81    20.35    21.72       174.13
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                           8.30     8.34     8.38     8.47    8.56     8.65     8.77     8.88     9.00     9.11       86.46
Power (fuel and electricity)                                        3.37     3.33     3.29     3.24    3.20     3.16     3.09     3.03     2.96     2 90        31.57
Materials and supplies and other                                    1.27     3,27     3.27     3.27     3.27    3.26     3.26     3.25     3.2$     3.25        32.62
Subtotal                                                           14.94    14.94    14.94    14.98   15.03    15.07    15.12    15.16    15.21    1S.26       150.65
Less expenses - line closures                                              - 0.04   - 0.09   - 0.15   - 0.23  - 0.23   - 0.23   - 0.23   - 0.25   - 0.25      - 1.70
Less expenses - Modernization Plan                                - 0.08   - 0.10   - 0.12   - 0.12   - 0.12  - 0.11   - 0.10   - 0.08   - 0.06   - 0.03      - 0.92
Deferred Haintenance                                                ∞5 .       ss     o.5 ss    . 0is  o         . ss5   o.S5     o .5   ..S5 oQ5                5..s.
Total Operating Expenses, excluding Depreciation                    15.41   15-35    15.28    15.26    15.23   15.28    15.34    15.40    15.45    15.53       153.53
Net Cash Operating Revenues                                         - 2.43   - 1.18   - 0.37     0.53     2.11    2.74     3.70     4.41     4.90     6.19        20.60
Interest
On Bonds 1946 - 1957                                                0.55     0.55     0.54    0.54     0.53     0.52     0.51     0.51     0.50     0.50         5.25
Foreign loans - prior to 1964                                       0.04     0.04     0.03     0.03    0.03     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.01         0.26
IBRD proposed loan                                                   -       0.04     0.14    0.22     0.21     0.20     0.19     0.17     0.16     0.15         1.48
Other foreign loans                                                 -- -        -              0.6      o.19    0.29     0.42     0.43     0.41     0.37         2-17
Total Interest                                                      0.59     o.63     0.71     0.85     0.96    1.03     1.14     1.13     1.09     1.03         9.16
Net Cash Income (Loss)                                              - 3.02   - 1.81   - 1.08   - 0.32     1.15    1.71     2.56     3.28     3.81     5.16        11.44
Annual Depreciation Expense                                           1.47     1.66     1.88     2.13     2.35    2.58     2.79     2.99     3.16     3.26        24.27
Net Income or Deficit                                               - 4.49   - 3.47   - 2 96   - 2.45   - 1.20   - 0.87  - 0.23     0.29     0.65     1.90      - 12.83
Operating Ratio %                                                      130      120      115      110      101      99       95       93       91       87          102
Return on Net Fixed Assets (other than land)                        - 8.6    - 5.7    - 4.1    - 2.6    - 0.4
Loss                                                              - 8.6    - 5.7    - 4.1    - 2.6    - 0.4
Return                     +%                                                                                 + 0.2    + 1.2    + 1.8    + 2.1    + 3.6
Times Interest Earned                                                                                           0.16     0.80     1.26     1.60     2.84
Debt Service Covesage                                                                          0.47     1.42    1.76     1.84     2.22     2.22     2.85
Note: 1. Operating Ratios are after depreciation, before interest.
2. RENFE's revenues would more than cover its operational cash expenses in 1968; depreciation as well in 1971.
3. Return is calculated on net Railway Operating Revenues; that is after depreciation and before interest;
and on the average of net fixed assets replacement value (other than land) at the beginnVng and at the end of each year.
4. Times interest earned is after depreciation before interest.
5. All figures are rounded; totals do not always equal sum of components.



SPAIN
REMFE ESTL'hATED 8ALANCE S}EETS. 1964 - 1963
(balllon Peaetas)
1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971     1972    M2
A s a e t s
Current Assets
Cash                                                           1.15    1.53    1.61     1.56   1.36     1.31    1.11    0.81    0.46    1.35
Marketable Securities                                          0.01    0.01    0.01     0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
Accounts Receivable                                            1.36    1.35    1.34     1.J6    1.38    1.40    1.2     1. 1.1.46       1.48
Staff Advances                                                 0.15    0.15    0.15     0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15
Deposits - warrants                                            0.02    0.02    0.02     0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
Stores                                                         1.75    1.60    1.60     1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60
Total Current Assets                                           4.44    4.66    4.73    4.70    4.52     4.49    4.31    4.03    3.70    4.61
Fixed Assets (except land)
Gross replace rent value 1/1/64                       183.6
Less depreciation to 3/1/64                          127.2
Gross replacement value less depreciation             56.4
less write-off 1964 - 1973 replace%ents               13.2
Replacement value less write-off                      43.2    48.49    55.44   63.69   71.49   79.25   86.70   93.55   99.23  103.08  105.20
Less accuulated depreciation                            -      1.47    3.13    5.01    7.14    9.49    12.07   14.86   17.85   21.01   24.27
Net Fixed Assets                                      43.2    47.02    52.31  58.68    64.35   69.76   74.63   78.69   81.38   82.07   80.93
Total Assets                                                  51.46    56.97   63.41   69.05   74.28   79.12   83.00   85.41   85.77   85.54
L i a b i 1 i t i e s
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                               2.40    2.62    2.74     2.71    2.58    2.55    2.42    2.14    1.86    1.63
Accrued wages and salaries                                     1.00    1.00    0.95     0.95    0.90    0.90    0.85    0.85    0.80    0.80
Deposits and warrants                                          0.03    Q90     0.03     0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03
Total current liabilities                                      3.43    3.65    3.72    3.69    3.51     3.48    3.30    3.02    2.69    2.46
lIng-term Debt:
Bonds 1946 - 1957                                           12.81   12.68    12.54   12.39  12.23    12.06  l1.89    11.7    11.54   11.35
US Loans and Eurofima                                        1.01     1.04    0.96    0.87    0.78    0.69    0.60    0.55    0.50    0.45
Nowuing Institute                                            0.40     0.50    0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90    1.00    1.10    1.20    1.30
IBRD proposed loan                                           0.80    2.60    3.90    3.90    3.66     3.42    3.17    2.93    2.69    24.
Other foreign aid                                             _       -      1.00    _10      5.20    7.60    7.74    7.38    6.78    6.18
Total Long-term Debt                                         15.02   16.82   19.00   21.36   22.67   24.67   24.40   23.68   22.71   21.72
Total Liabilities                                            18.45   20.47  22.72    25.05   26.18   28.15   27.70   26.70   25.40   24.18
R q u i ty
Reserves - Amortized Bonds                                       1.32    1.47    1.63    1.78    1.95    2.12    2.30     2.48    2.68    2.88
- Operating and Improvements                              -       -       -     _         -       -       -       -       -       0.76
Total Reserves                                               1.32    1.47     1.62    1.78    1.95    2.12    2.30    2.48    2.68    3.64
Capital                                                         31.69   35.03   39.07   42.22   46.15   48.85   53.00    56.23   57.69   57.72
Total Equity                                                    33.01   36.50   40.69   44.00   48.10   50.97   55.30    58.71  uO.37    61.36
Total Liabilities and Equity                                    51.46   56.97   63.41   69.05   74.28   79.12    83.00   85.41   85.77   85.54
Ratios:
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                          1.29    1.28    1.27    1.27    1.29    1.29     1.31    1.33    1.38    1.87
Liquid - (Less Stores)                                         0.78    0.84    0.84    0.84    0.83    0.83    0.82     0.80    0.78    1.22
Debt - Equity                                                 j1/69   32/68   32/68   33/67   32/68    33/67  31/69    29/71   27/73   26/74



SPAIN
rEEiFLF ESTIyATED c..SI FLOW. 1964 - 197
(Billions of Pesetas)
1964     1965    1966    1967    1968     1969    1970     1971     1972     1973     Totals     Percent
I. Cash Required
Investments in Modernization Plan                         5.29     6.95    8.25    7.80    7.76     7.45    6.85     5.68     3.85     2.12      62.00       77.6
Investment - 1963 carry forward                           0.65      -       -       -       -        -       -        -        -        -         0.65        0.8
Interest on Debt:
Bonds 1946 - 1957                                       0.55     0.55    0.54    0.54    0.53     0.52    0.51     0.51     0.50     0.50       5.25
US Loans, 1957 and 1959                                 0.04     0.04    0.03    0.03    0.03     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.01       0.26
Proposed IBRD Loan                                       -       0.04    0.14    0.22    0.21     0.20     0.19    0.17     0.16     0.15       1.48
Other Foreign Loans                                      -        -       -      0.06    0.19     0.29     0.42      0.43   0.41     0.37       2.17
Total Interest on Debt                                  0.59     0.63    0.71    o.85    o.96     1.03     1.14    1.13     1.09     1.03       9.16       11.5
Repayment of Debt
Bonds 1946 - 1957                                       0.14     0.15    0.15    0.16    0.17     0.17    0.18     0.18     0.19     0.20       1.69
US Loans 1957 and 1959                                  0.10     0.09    0.10    0.10    0.10     0.10     0.06    0.06     0.06     0.06       0.83
Loans for Housing                                       0.01     0.01    0.01    0.01    0.02     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.03     0.03       0.18
Proposed IBPRD Loan 1964                                 -        -       -       -      0.24     0.24     0.25    0.24     0.24     0.25       1.46
Other Loans                                              -        _       -       -       -        -       0.36    -0.36    0.60     0.60       1.92
Total Payment of Debt                                   0.25     0.25    0.26    0.27    0.53     0.53     0.87    0.86     1.12     1.14       6.08        7.6
Changes in Working Capital                                0.33    -0.38   -0.08    0.05    0.20     0.05     0.20    0.30     0.35     0.25       1.27        1.6
Appropriations to Reserves                                 -        -       -       -       -        -        -       -        -       0.76       0.76        0.9
Total Cash Required                                       7.11     7.45    9.14    8.97    9.45     9.06     9.06    7.97     6.41     5.30      79.92      100.0
II. Cash Available
Net Income or Deficit (after depreciation,
before interest)                  -3.90    -2.84   -2.25   -1.60   -0.24     0.16     0.91     1.42     1.74    2.93      -3.67      - 4.6
Depreciation                                              1.47     1.66    1.88    2.13    2.35     2.58     2.79    2.99     3.16     3.26      24.27       30.4
Funds Provided by State:
Deficit Including Depreciation                          3.90     2.84    2.25    1.60    0.24      -        -       -        -        -        10.83
Interest - not earned                                   0.59     0.63    0.71    0.85    0.96     0.87    0.23      -        -        -         4.84
Debt repayment - not earned                             0.25     0.25    0.26    0.27,   0.5j     0.53     0.87    0.57     0.47,     -         4.00
For capital investment                                  2.80     3.45    4.07    3.17    3.71     2.47    3.56     2.69     0.69      -        26.61
Total Provided LT State                                 7.54     7.17    7.29    5.89    5.44     3.87    4.66     3.26     1.16      -        46.28       57.9
Loans
US Loan - 1959                                          0.20     0.04     -       -       -        -       -        -        -        -         0.24
Proposed IBRD Loan                                      0.80     1.80    1.30     -       -       -        -        -        -        -         3.90
Other Loans                                            _ -        -      1,00    2.50    1.70    2,40     0.50     _                            8.10
Total Loans                                             1.00     1.84    2.30    2.50    1.70     2.40     0.50     -                 -        12,24       15.3
Total cash on hand, beginning of year                     2.16     1.16    1.54    1.62    1.57     1.37    1.32     1.12    0.82      0.47
Total Cash Available                                      8.27     8.99   10.76   10.54   10.82    10.38    10.18    8.79     6.88     6.66     _
Cumulative Cash Position                                  1.16     1.54    1.62    1.57    1.37     1.32    1.12     0.82     0.47     1.36      79.12       99.0
Decrease in Cash Position                                                                                                                         0.80        1.0



%7 /\ \7WGO T A; elo yt ~~~~~~Cd Dowote  B ILBAO ;SBTIN-RWCE 
PON  T b  lNFORTE          LEON           DE            AMLOARC\D> cn;n _!-_ 
zev,90                      \                  LOGRO          tt 
!, . 0 < \ PALENCIAt \ > / MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NRESAX EOA
4   6         2,_  \ \  ~~~~~~~~~VALLADOLIDt  O ioooo \ /\s 
ZAMORA                      R~~~~~G O AGOZAD  \\
1s K / / \>g~~~~~~~~~~~MONTANARES \/\CLN
ae   ¢   <  Eo~L Fregendc3r<  SALAIAC  v   SEGOVIA   /\/\G                    N
<   /     1 < --     -   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9de Nosonroo  T,
OX1  ')Ft, de OnrXo  /   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  f JR~UADALAJARA  TERUE\  
s  &     t       /          ~~~~~~~     ~~MADRID      \/
/        /:  2_____N  C A        \  /iGroo de CUENC
gg         ;       j~~~~~ ~ ~  ~~ACERES  TOLEDO ∞/  g Q i ton r de la 0  iGrm o  ooo 
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                          L  I  VAElCAE Gr.o∞
X          j     _         ~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~CIUDAD REAL f  ALBCEE  u f   i
ABADAJOZ             // 
{;     /    /   \40~~~~~~ de H"CODB  ;3AEZA   ∞-TRCI      evejo
IL                           /l                                         7JEr pS XsP AI N
J  <4SEvy>/0=\/ S                      /CA~~~~      ~~~~~t,of'∞  RENFE LINES
LVA g < =< >2S>lo, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Do.ble Trrek
h  My  /   raroa   /\   ~~~~~~~~~Alqu.tf |  
80nonzo ,(  /   /  %D~MALAGA  ALMRA   5Snl                rc 
S LUCOT d a wr / _ x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El ..t,.f,ediI IIIIII
CADIZ       /9
AP R I L 1964                                               1 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR D-1334 R



