Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7302-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Program Development Policy Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 16, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7302-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 2005, between  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated May 4, 
2005, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to improve 
equity and efficiency in health, education and social protection (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as 
hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
Page  3
-
2
-
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “ANEP” 
means 
Administración Nacional de Educación Pública
,
the 
Borrower’s National Administration of Public Education; 
 
(b) “ASSE” 
means 
Administración de Servicios de Salud del Estado
,
the 
Borrower’s executing unit within the MSP in charge of health services; 
 
(c) “BPS” 
means 
Banco de Previsión Social
,
the Borrower’s Social Security 
Bank; 
 
(d) “CODICEN” 
means 
Consejo Directivo Central
,
ANEP’s National 
Directive Council; 
 
(e) “FNR” 
means 
Fondo Nacional de Recursos
,
a
non-state public entity 
(
persona pública no estatal
)
that provides financial assistance to the Borrower’s 
Page  4
-
3
-
population for the provision of highly specialized medical procedures, established 
pursuant to Law No. 16343 of December 24, 1992, or any successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“MSP” means 
Ministerio de Salud Pública
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Public Health; 
 
(g) 
“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial
;
and 
 
(h) 
“RUCAF” means  
Registro Único de Cobertura Asistencial Formal
,
MSP’s single registry of formal health assistance coverage. 
 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy five 
million three hundred and eighty thousand Dollars ($75,380,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $75,003,100 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Page  5
-
4
-
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the 
Bank in accordance with the provision of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal to $75,380,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
 
(b) 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date September 14, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
 
Colonia No. 1089 
 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable address:   
Telex: 
 
MINECON 
 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo, Uruguay  
 
Facsimile: (598) 2 1712-2919 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
Page  11
-
10
 -
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2010 
 
through March 15, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  13
-
12
 -
 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  14
-
13
 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Health
1. 
(a) 
MSP has issued Directive (
Circular
)
No. 12, dated April 27, 2005, 
authorizing a system for the allocation of budget amounts to its executing agencies based 
on per capita and production criteria, and started the application of such system. 
 
(b) 
ASSE is operating a budget administration system, satisfactory to the 
Bank, in its health facilities. 
 
2. 
(a) 
MSP is operating a program of database maintenance which includes an 
identification of its beneficiaries, and enables MSP to identify coverage duplications. 
 
(b) 
ASSE has been implementing since January 2002 a billing system for 
insured in-patients satisfactory to the Bank, and has authorized through the Borrow
er’s 
Decree, dated February 13, 2003, the utilization by the public health providers of the 
proceeds of the fees charged by such providers. 
 
3. 
(a) 
FNR has maintained a financial equilibrium (regular revenues, not 
including any amounts attributable to the increase in contribution rates mandated by a 
decree of the Executive, have been equal to or greater than regular expenditures – any 
extraordinary, not operationally-related revenues and expenditures excluded) in its 2003 
and 2004 financial statements. 
 
(b) 
FNR’s Board of Directors approved on April 14, 2005 reforms in its 
administration procedures which include:  
 
(i) 
setting of unitary costs for medical procedures and utilization 
rates of principal medical procedures satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(ii) 
validation of service authorizations made by FNR against 
RUCAF’s and ASSE’s consolidated beneficiary databases. 
 
(c) 
FNR’s Board of Directors approved on May 30, 2002 reforms in its 
administration procedures setting forth adjustment of tariffs for medical procedures based 
on variations of unitary costs.  
 
Education
1. 
The Borrower has, as needed to protect critical education programs: 
Page  15
-
14
 -
 
(a) 
executed budgets for the calendar years 2003 and 2004 at the following 
minimum yearly amounts: (i) $900,000 for basic school supplies; (ii) $250,000 for 
bilingual education; and (iii) $300,000 for books and materials; and 
 
(b) 
approved a budget for calendar year 2005 at least in the yearly amounts 
mentioned in paragraph 1 (a) above, for each of the three programs mentioned therein.  
 
2. 
ANEP has implemented a series of management information systems, 
satisfactory to the Bank and described in the annexes to the letter from ANEP to the Bank 
dated April 29, 2005, which include: 
 
(a) 
a file management system; 
 
(b) 
a filing system for CO
DICEN’s resolutions; 
 
(c) 
an information management system each for the primary and secondary 
education systems; and 
 
(d) 
the incorporation of ANEP’s human resource database into the central 
database of public servants of the Planning and Budgeting Office of the Borrower’s 
Presidency. 
 
3. ANEP 
has: 
 
(a) 
through its resolution dated May 27, 2003 staffed its  internal auditing 
unit; and 
 
(b) 
through its resolution dated October 9, 2003 approved the operational 
procedures of such unit. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to expand to 80% 
school coverage of four-year-old students during the 2006 school year. 
 
5. 
CODICEN has decided: 
 
(a) 
through its resolution dated August 24, 2004 to continue implementing 
national assessments of student learning; and  
 
(b) 
through its resolution dated November 16, 2004 to participate in 2006 in 
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Programme for 
International Student Assessment (PISA 2006). 
 
Page  16
-
15
 -
 
Social Protection
1. 
BPS has delivered a report dated April  22, 2005 indicating that the number of 
beneficiaries of family allowances under Laws No. 17139 and No. 17758 published in the 
Official Gazette on July 29, 1999 and May 10, 2004 respectively, reached 184,252 in 
December 2004. 
 
2. 
BPS has issued Resolutions No. 8-5/2005, 8-6/2005 and 8-7/2005, all dated 
March 31, 2005, and Resolution No. 10-26/2005, dated April 13, 2005, improving its 
disclosure policies, including access to statistical information, access of BPS’ directors to 
databases, authorization to regional managers to provide information to local media, and 
publication of general resolutions through the internet and the Official Gazette. 
 
3. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Social Development has created a Directorate for 
Programs Evaluation, named its director, and designed an impact evaluation and 
monitoring system for implementation by such Ministry.
 
