                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No:ICR0000353




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-73020)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75.38 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                     REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

                                      FOR A

               SOCIAL PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                 February 26, 2007




Human Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective 1/31/2007)

                       Currency Unit = Uruguayan Pesos (U$)
                       Uruguayan Pesos 1.00 = US$ 0.04098
                        US$ 1.00 = Uruguayan Pesos 24.40

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1-December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Activity

ANEP   Administración Nacional de la Educación Pública (National Administration of Public
       Education)

ASSE   Administración de los Servicios de Salud del Estado (Administration of State Health
       Services)
BPS    Banco Previsión Social (Social Security Fund)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CODICEN Consejo Directivo Central (Central Directive Council)
DPL    Development Policy Loan
FNR     Fondo Nacional de Recursos (National Resource Fund)
FTS    Full-Time Schools Model
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IADB    Inter.-American Development Bank
IAMC   Instituciones de Asistencia Médica Colectiva (Collective Medical Aid Institutions)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report

IMAE   Institutos de Medicina Altamente Especializada (Institutes of Highly Specialized
       Medical Care)
IMF    International Monetary Fund
INE     Instituto Nacional de Estadística (National Statistics Institute)
LAC     Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MIDES  Ministerio de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
MOE    Ministerio de Educación (Ministry of Education)
MOF    Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas (Ministry of Finance)
MSP    Ministerio de Salud Pública (Ministry of Health)
MTEF   Medium -Term Expenditure Framework
OECD    Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development

OPP    Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto de la Presidencia de la República (Office of
       Planning and Budget)
PAC     Programa de Actividades Comunitarias (Community Activities Program)

PANES  Plan de Asistencia Nacional a la Emergencia Social (Nacional Social Emergency
       Assistance Plan)
PER    Public Expenditure Review

PFM   Public Financial Management
PISA  Program for International Student Assessment

RUCAF Registro Único de Cobertura Asistencial Formal (Single Registry of Formal Health
      Assistance Coverage)
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SPDLP Social Program Development Program
SSAL  Special Structural Adjustment Loan
UNDP  United Nations Development Program
UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization




                         Vice President: Pamela Cox
                       Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
                        Sector Manager: Helena G. Ribe
                     Task Team Leader: Rafael P. Rofman

                                                         Uruguay
                             Uruguay Social Program Support Loan




                                                     CONTENTS

DATA SHEET............................................................................................................................ 2
A. Basic Information................................................................................................................... 2
B. Key Dates............................................................................................................................... 2
C. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................... 2
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ 3
E. Bank Staff............................................................................................................................... 3
F. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................................. 4
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs.............................................................................. 5
H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................................. 5
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................ 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................ 12
3. Assessment of Outcomes...................................................................................................... 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 22
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 24
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......................... 25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................................. 26
Annex 7. Map............................................................................................................................ 28




                                                               1

DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information

                                                                         Uruguay Social Program
Country:                Uruguay                   Program Name:
                                                                         Support Loan
Program ID:             P095028                   L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-73020
ICR Date:               02/26/2007                ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                         THE GOVERNMENT
Lending Instrument:     DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                         OF URUGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 75.4M                 Disbursed Amount:      USD 75.4M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economy and Finances
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

      Process             Date                Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:         04/13/2005      Effectiveness:          07/01/2005        07/01/2005
Appraisal:              05/04/2005      Restructuring(s):
Approval:               06/09/2005      Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                06/30/2006        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                  Ratings                   Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:              Satisfactory       Government:                Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:        Satisfactory       Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:           Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:                   Satisfactory       Performance:                 Satisfactory




                                                 2

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments (if
        Performance              Indicators             any)                   Rating:

Potential Problem Program                      Quality at Entry
                           No                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Program at any                         Quality of Supervision
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                 (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 4                100
Compulsory health finance                                         9
General education sector                                        44
Health                                                          30
Other social services                                           13


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                               Primary
Health system performance                                       Primary
Improving labor markets                                        Secondary
Social analysis and monitoring                                 Secondary
Social safety nets                                             Secondary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                        Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Axel van Trotsenburg              Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Helena G. Ribe                    Helena G. Ribe
Program Team Leader:       Rafael P. Rofman                  Rafael P. Rofman
ICR Team Leader:           Rafael P. Rofman
ICR Primary Author:        Cristina Flood




                                               3

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Social Program Development Policy Loan aimed at:

 (i) Supporting the maintenance of macroeconomic stability;

 (ii) Recognizing that Uruguay's social policy response to the economic crisis went considerably
beyond actions supported by the Bank under the Second Special Structural Adjustment Loan;

 (iii) Supporting past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms in the education, health,
and social protection sectors to further improve both efficiency and equity in service delivery;
and

 (iv) Assisting the early activities of the new administration in various social policy areas, as a
foundation for the Bank's support for the medium-term Government policies.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target         Formally         Actual Value

           Indicator              Baseline        Values (from                            Achieved at
                                   Value           approval             Revised         Completion or
                                                  documents)         Target Values       Target Years
Indicator :                     Proportion of insured and uninsured patients billed at public hospitals

Value                                         90% of insured

(quantitative or                              patients                                N/A
Qualitative)                                  30% of uninsured
                                              patients
Date achieved                                 12/31/2005

Comments                        Due to changes in Government procedures, data on this indicator

(incl. % achievement)           became unavailable, as information on number of billed patients is no
                                longer centrally collected.
Indicator :                     FNR financial result
Value
(quantitative or                10.6%         maintain surplus                       6.8%
Qualitative)                    surplus       during 2005

Date achieved                   12/31/2004 12/31/2005                                12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)           Official data for 2006 is still unavailable, but expected to be positive.

Indicator :                     Preschool coverage among 4-year old children
Value
(quantitative or                75%           80%                                    83%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   12/31/2003 06/30/2006                                06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

                                                   4

Indicator :                  Administration of National Assessment of Student Performance
Value
(quantitative or             applied in    New round applied                    round applied during

Qualitative)                 2004         in 2005/2006                          2006

Date achieved                12/31/2004 12/31/2006                              10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

Indicator :                  Number of beneficiaries of non contributive family allowances
                             beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative or             184000        200000                               209429
Qualitative)
Date achieved                12/31/2004 12/31/2005                              06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator :                  Status of PANES monitoring system
Value                                                                           Document on
(quantitative or             System        Monitoring reports                   beneficiaries profile
Qualitative)                 under design published                             published
Date achieved                06/30/2005 12/31/2005                              12/31/2005

Comments                     Further work by the Direction of Monitoring and Evaluation produced

(incl. % achievement)        several additional reports, on program's impact, social expenditures, et
                             cetera. These reports were completed and published during 2006.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally          Actual Value

            Indicator          Baseline      Values (from                            Achieved at
                                Value           approval        Revised Target     Completion or
                                              documents)            Values          Target Years


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


 No.       Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
           Archived             DO                             IP                 (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 5

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


Macroeconomic and Social Context

After several years of macroeconomic stability and steady growth, Uruguay suffered a sharp
reversal in 1998 with a recession that persisted for more than three years before collapsing into a
deep economic crisis in the second half of 2002. The country faced a sharp devaluation of its
currency, and the lack of financing placed the economy on the verge of default on its sovereign
debt, and GDP fell by 7.5% from 1998 to 2001, before suffering and additional drop of 11
percent in 2002. Several external factors contributed to explain Uruguay's recession, including
the poor economic performance and crises of its neighboring countries; a deterioration in terms
of trade (higher oil prices and lower prices of agricultural commodities); and worsening financial
conditions in international capital markets. On the domestic front, persistently high fiscal deficits
(around 4% of GDP), an appreciated real exchange rate, weak financial supervision and an
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease during 2001 contributed to the recession and financial
difficulties.

The 1998 recession and the subsequent economic crisis had a severe social impact, especially on
unemployment and poverty. Unemployment increased from about 10 percent in 1998 to 17
percent in 2002/2003. During the period from 1998 to 2002, the proportion of self-employed and
of those employed in the informal sector also grew and was accompanied by a reduction in real
wages in the private sector. Household income started to decline in 1998 and fell by more than a
fifth in the period from 1998 to the end of 2002, as it was negatively impacted by poor
performance of the labor market in terms of job creation and wage behavior. As a result, poverty
increased between 2000 and 2003/2004 from 17 percent to 31 percent of the population, while
extreme poverty also doubled during the same period. Despite the impact on household income,
extreme poverty remained low in Uruguay with respect to other Latin American countries and
the recent economic recovery should reverse the increasing trend in poverty rates. After
an improvement in the early 1990s, income distribution worsened during the 1990s, as the Gini
coefficient increased from 0.424 in 1990 to 0.462 in 2004. The deterioration in social indicators
in the early 2000s resulted in growing social exclusion, as many Uruguayans found themselves
without a job, or a safety net to avoid poverty.

The outcome of the crisis could have been much worse had it not been for an effective
adjustment effort by the Uruguayan authorities and the consensual nature of the country's
political system. The success with which Uruguay was able to weather the economic crisis of
2001-02 owes much to its prompt and purposeful response to events. Negotiations with creditors
led to the successful conclusion of a sovereign debt exchange in May 2003, raising the average
maturity of bonds by over 5 years without increasing interest rates and without a principal
haircut. Fiscal adjustment resulted in a primary fiscal surplus of 3.8 percent of GDP in 2004 (a
major turnaround from primary deficits through 1999-2001). Prudent monetary management
enabled the inflationary impact of the 2002 devaluation to be limited to only 19.4 percent that


                                                 6

year. Subsequently, inflation was brought down to single figures.

The Government's response to the crisis was not limited to macroeconomic measures. A set of
mitigating policies to limit the social impacts and prepare the stage for a more rapid recovery
was adopted as the crisis developed. The main focus of Government social policies during the
crisis was on protecting some critical social sector budgets and providing access to social
services and protection to the most vulnerable population, including those who, due to the
increased unemployment or decline in real wages, were forced to turn towards the public health
system to obtain medical care, as they lost the coverage provided by social insurance and private
providers.

Economic and social recovery and political transition

Efforts by the Uruguayan Government to recover from the crisis began to have an impact on
economic and social indicators since mid 2003. Real GDP growth in 2003 became positive after
four years of decline, reaching 11.9 percent in 2004 and 6.5 percent in 2005. Financial markets
began to improve, and social indicators reversed the negative trends. Poverty incidence in 2005
declined by two percentage points, to less than 30 percent, unemployment fell back to pre-crisis
levels (12.2 percent in 2005) and income distribution slightly improved, as the Gini coefficient
declined to 0.45. In addition, a significant tightening of spreads and successful renewed access to
private markets indicated that the economic situation was returning to normal.
The victory of the Frente Amplio-Encuentro Progresista - Nueva Mayoría coalition in the
October 2004 elections ended 170 years of Uruguayan politics being dominated by the two
traditional parties, the Partido Colorado and the Partido Nacional. The new Government took
office on March 1, 2005. The political transition period was smooth with collaboration from
outgoing authorities and continuation of critical policies by the new administration.

Bank Assistance

As the crisis hit in the early 2000s, Uruguay and the Bank agreed that structural adjustment
lending would be the most appropriate tool to support the administration in its efforts to soften
the impacts and recover. Two Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL I and SAL II1) and two Special
Structural Adjustment Loans (SSAL I and SSAL II2) were approved between August 2002 and
April 2003.
Under the first SAL, the social protection system was to be strengthened by improving
management and by safeguarding budget allocations. The program goals were all substantially
achieved, and the loan was fully disbursed.

The second Special SAL (SSAL II) was designed to be disbursed in three tranches. The
operation aimed at improving the equity and efficiency of public expenditures and health and
education by improving management and by giving budgetary protection to priority programs.
Good progress was made towards those goals and, by 2004, the Government had complied with
all conditions in the social sectors for release of the second and third tranches. However, tranche
release was held up because the loan was linked with the SAL II program, which supported



1SAL I: Report No 24515 ­ UR / SAL II: Report No 25012 - UR
2SSAL I: Report No 24515 ­ UR /SSAL II: Report No 25012 - UR
                                                  7

reforms in the infrastructure sector. As advances in this area were slower than expected, tranche
releases in both loans were delayed. The Special SAL was brought to closure in May 2005, when
Uruguay's Government requested cancellation of the second and third tranches of SSAL II
because it no longer required financial support on special terms.

Under the new CAS, the Government requested a new DPL, which was to support reforms and
measures that had been undertaken to overcome the crisis effects and to advance reforms in the
social sectors to improve quality, efficiency and equity in service provision. The new operation
would fit well within the overall strategy of the CAS and, in particular, within the objective of
improving living standards. It was also to prepare the way for further lending, as the indicative
lending program put forward in the CAS included additional operations in the social sectors to
support for Uruguay's effort to strengthen its tradition as a highly equitable country and efficient
social institutions, with a view to reduce poverty in the medium term.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


    The Social Program Development Policy Loan aimed at (i) supporting the maintenance of
    macroeconomic stability; (ii) recognizing that Uruguay's social policy response to the
    economic crisis went considerably beyond actions supported by the Bank under the Second
    Special Structural Adjustment Loan; (iii) supporting past and ongoing structural and
    administrative reforms in the education, health, and social protection sectors to further
    improve both efficiency and equity in service delivery; and (iv) assisting the early activities
    of the new administration in various social policy areas, as a foundation for the Bank's
    support for the medium-term Government policies.

    Section V.5 of the Program Document identified a set of near and medium-term impact
    indicators for the operation, linking supported actions with the CAS overall objectives. The
    indicators, organized by sector, were:




                       Near-Term Indicators                       Medium-term Impact Indicators
                            (end of 2005)                               (end of CAS period)

                 Billing system is used for billing at Equity and Sustainability

                 least 90 percent insured patients     -  Fiscal transfers to BPS reduced in line with medium-

                 identified by the Single Registry of    term macro framework

                 Formal Health Assistance              -  National Health insurance regulation completed and
                                                         implemented
 Health          Coverage (RUCAF) at hospitals
                 and at least 30 percent uninsured
                 patients                              Equity and Access
                                                       -  Share of health sector expenditure directed towards

                 FNR in surplus during 2005              primary and preventative care increases from 0.4
                                                         percent in 2003 to 4 percent in 2009




                                                        8

                                                   Coverage:
                                                   -   School enrollment rate of 4 year olds reaches at least
                                                      95 percent by June 2010

                                                   Quality and Equity:
               Preschool coverage among 4-year     -   Percentage of students achieving proficiency levels in
               olds increases to 80 percent by the    math and language increases by 15 percentage points
               end of 2005                            by June 2010

 Education                                         -   Achievement gap between students from low and
                                                      high income backgrounds is reduced
               National assessment of student      -   Performance of 15 year old students in PISA 2006 is
               performance is successfully            higher than in PISA 2003
               administered

                                                   Efficiency and Equity:
                                                   -   First grade repetition rates fall to less than 10 percent
                                                      by June 2010
                                                   -   Secondary school dropout rates decrease to 25
                                                      percent by June 2010
                                                   Equity and Access:
                                                   -   Family allowance program has at least 60 percent of
                                                      take-up among the poor by 2009

               The number of family allowances     -   Pension coverage of people in old age increases to at

               beneficiaries from the informal        least 90 percent.

               sector increases by 10 percent by
 Social        the end of 2005                     Sustainability

 Protection                                        -   Pension system becomes more sustainable financially
                                                      with more flexibility to include workers. Pension
                                                      spending not to exceed 17 percent of GDP by 2009.
               Monitoring reports for PANES        Efficiency and Equity
               published by the end of 2005        -   Social emergency program (PANES) implemented,
                                                      reaches 200,000 beneficiaries by 2006, and is largely
                                                      phased out by 2009




1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification




1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


The SPDPL supported actions taken to overcome different structural problems in the different
social sectors, as well as others aiming at overcoming the direct impact of the economic
crisis. Some of these actions had been initiated before the loan was prepared, and their inclusion
in the policy matrix served as a recognition of their contribution to improve the situation, while
others were defined as part of the new government program. In general, the goal was to achieve
higher efficiency, less inequities and better incentives for participants and beneficiaries of the
different programs. While recognizing previous actions, SPDPL support was always linked to the
medium term government strategy, as a way to engage and support current and future efforts to
advance the necessary reforms.

                                                    9

The four areas supported by SPDPL were macroeconomic policy; health; education; and social
protection:

The Macroeconomic Policy
As part of the efforts to reduce impacts and recover from the effects of the crisis, the
Government of Uruguay adopted a rigorous macroeconomic policy, which ensured fiscal
sustainability of public policies and programs, including those from the social sectors. The
SPDPL recognized these efforts as a critical contribution to a faster and less traumatic recovery
process.

The Health Sector
The health sector in Uruguay is organized through a complex array of public and private
providers and financiers. Nearly 97 percent of the population have access to health care
services, either through the public health system, private insurers (organized as cooperatives) that
cover formal workers and voluntary participants, and a few commercial insurers. While coverage
has been traditionally high, excessive costs and inefficiencies have affected the sector, a problem
that worsened during the crisis, when many Uruguayans formerly protected by the private
providers were forced to turn towards the public hospitals for health care services. The
main issues that demanded actions in the sector were:

    · Inefficient allocation of health care resources across public hospitals and facilities, due to
        lack of incentives and inadequate budgeting criteria
    · Duplication of coverage for individuals paying health insurance through their jobs but
        using public facilities to receive health care, with no systems for cost recovery, which
        results in high cross-subsidies between public and private providers
    · Inadequate management and regulation of the catastrophic insurance scheme, resulting in
        increasing deficits and additional subsidies to private insurance schemes.

The SPDPL supported several actions taken to overcome these issues. First, changes in the
budgeting and fund allocation process for public hospitals were introduced, to benefit better-
performing hospitals and improve the incentives structure in the sector. The second action was
the development of a beneficiaries database and its use to start billing patients in public hospitals.
This action was to allow the reduction of the incidence of cross-subsidies with the private sector,
improving the overall efficiency of the sector. Finally, the third action supported by SPDPL in
the health sector was the improvement in management of the catastrophic insurance scheme,
which resulted in the reduction and elimination of financial deficits.

The Education Sector

Uruguay has had one of the strongest education systems in the region for most of the 20th
Century, and this had an important role in explaining the high levels of social and economic
equity. By 2003, 95 percent of children were enrolled in preschool at age five, and 90 percent
remained in school to complete the primary cycle. However, progress in some areas of the
education system until the early 2000s had been slower than in other countries in the region.
Among those, access and quality of education for pre-school children and teenagers in secondary
schools were below expectations. The causes of these problems could be traced to administrative
inefficiencies, lack of incentives and insufficient evaluation of policies and programs. The

                                                10

SPDPL supported actions that, as part of the Government strategy, ensured financing to critical
programs in the aftermath of the crisis, deepened reforms that provide the central administration
with more adequate tools to plan and adjust operations of the system, and advanced in the
expansion of coverage as well as improvements in education quality and equity.

The main issues in the sector were:

    · Funding for critical education programs was at risk due to the fiscal impact of the crisis.
       As the economic crisis created growing fiscal restrictions, the risk that funding for critical
       educational programs would be cut was high. Continued investment in these program was
       critical to maintain and improve education access, especially in poor neighborhoods,
       making it necessary to adopt budgetary protection measures;
    · Information management systems at central institutions were inefficient and impaired
       advances in system reforms. The central administrative structure of the education system
       had significant shortcomings with regards to transparency, results monitoring, and
       auditing systems;
    · Coverage among pre-school children (especially 4 year olds) in Uruguay was below
       expected levels, affecting these children future opportunities; and
    · The sector lacked a standard evaluation system, including a system to maintain regular
       students' performance assessments. Uruguay had a limited history regarding student
       performance evaluations. While investment in the sector was needed, the lack of
       consistent information to track performance changes hampered the Government's ability
       to design strategies and policies to improve educational quality

The SPDPL supported several actions taken to overcome these issues. First, the efforts made by
the Government to protect the budget of three critical education programs (basic school supplies,
bilingual education and books and teaching materials) in the aftermath of the crisis was
recognized. Second, several new information management systems were introduced at ANEP,
the central education management institution. They include a system to file legal documents, a
human resources administration database, and school-based information systems for primary and
secondary levels. Also, the creation of an internal auditing unit at ANEP was supported by the
operation. Third, the efforts to continue expansion of 4-year olds coverage were recognized by
SPDPL and, finally, the adoption of a permanent system of student performance evaluation
(through national and international testing) was also supported by SPDPL.

The Social Protection Sector

The social protection sector in Uruguay has been one of the strongest in the region for many
decades. Coverage among active workers and the elderly was very high, compared with other
countries in the region or even some countries members of OECD. However, the system was
almost exclusively focused on the contributory pension system, as more than 90% of
expenditures were explained by this program. Social Security expenditures reached as much as
15 percent of GDP in 2000, crowding out other programs. The impact of the crisis on the labor
market made evident the need to develop strategies to provide protection to those outside of the
formal sector, since they represented a growing number of workers. Recognizing this need, the
Government introduced in 2000 an important reform, providing access to family allowances to
low income families, even if they were not contributing to the social security system. The system
was expanded again in early 2004, aiming at a universal coverage among poor households. Also,

                                                11

immediately after taking office, the new administration in 2005 created a Ministry of Social
Development (MIDES), that was responsible for the design and implementation of an emergency
social program and for the coordination and monitoring of all social policies.
The main issues in the sector were:

    · Poor families lacked access to family allowances benefits when parents had no formal
        employment. This problem was correctly addressed by the innovative reforms of
        2000/2004, but actual expansion of coverage was insufficient and a renewed effort and
        commitment by authorities was necessary to fully implement these laws.
    · BPS management of social insurance programs was efficient, but given their size (the
        aggregate budget of BPS reached between 15 and 20 percent of GDP), further efforts to
        increase transparency and accountability were necessary, in particular with regards to
        public access to normative and statistical information produced at the institution.
    · The creation of MIDES represented an important step in Uruguay's effort to redirect part
        of its effort in social protection to include the poorest and most vulnerable in the system.
        While MIDES immediately focused on the design and implementation of the emergency
        program, it was also necessary to develop a reliable monitoring and evaluation system to
        assess different social policies and support strategic decisions in this area.

The SPDPL supported several actions to overcome these issues. First, the loan recognized the
previous Government's efforts to expand coverage of the family allowances program through the
2000 and 2004 legislation, as well as the continuous effort to expand actual coverage and reach
those legally entitled to receive benefits. Second, the SPDPL supported a decision by the
BPS Board to publish all resolutions and statistics produced by the institution. Finally, the loan
supported the design of a monitoring and evaluation plan for PANES and other social programs
in MIDES.


1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)



1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
Number
of          1
tranches:

 Tranche        Amount:           Expected      Actual Release
                               Release Date:        Date:       Release Floating Restructured

     1         75,380,000.00     09/30/2005       07/01/2005    Regular   No          No
Tranche Release binding Conditions
Tranche Condition                               Text of Condition                          Status:
                                                   12

        (a) MSP has issued Directive (Circular) No. 12, dated April 27,2005,
        authorizing a system for the allocation of budget amounts to its
1    1  executing agencies based on per capita and production criteria, and       Met
        started the application of such system. (b) ASSE is operating a budget
        administration system, satisfactory to the Bank, in its health facilities.
        (a) MSP is operating a program of database maintenance which
        includes an identification of its beneficiaries, and enables MSP to
        identify coverage duplications. (b) ASSE has been implementing
1    2  since January 2002 a billing system for insured in-patients satisfactory Met
        to the Bank, and has authorized through the Borrower's Decree dated
        February 13, 2003 the utilization by the public health providers of the
        proceeds of the fees charged by such providers.
        (a) FNR has maintained a financial equilibrium (regular revenues, not
        including any amounts attributable to the increase in contribution
        rates mandated by a decree of the Executive, have been equal to or
        greater than regular expenditures ­ any extraordinary, not
        operationally-related revenues and expenditures excluded) in its 2003
        and 2004 financial statements. (b) FNR's Board of Directors approved

1    3  on April 14, 2005 reforms in its administration procedures which
        include: (i) setting of unitary costs for medical procedures and          Met

        utilization rates of principal medical procedures satisfactory to the
        Bank; and (ii) validation of service authorizations made by FNR
        against RUCAF's and ASSE's consolidated beneficiary databases. (c)
        FNR's Board of Directors approved on May 30, 2002 reforms in its
        administration procedures setting forth adjustment of tariffs for
        medical procedures based on variations of unitary costs.
        The Borrower has, as needed to protect critical education programs:
        (a) executed budgets for the calendar years 2003 and 2004 at the
        following minimum yearly amounts: (i) $900,000 for basic school
1    4  supplies; (ii) $250,000 for bilingual education; and (iii) $300,000 for   Met
        books and materials; and (b) approved a budget for calendar year
        2005 at least in the yearly amounts mentioned in paragraph 1 (a)
        above, for each of the three programs mentioned therein.
        ANEP has implemented a series of management information systems,
        satisfactory to the Bank and described in the annexes to the letter from
        ANEP to the Bank dated April 29, 2005, which include: (a) a file

1    5  management system; (b) a filing system for CODICEN's resolutions;
        (c) an information management system each for the primary and             Met

        secondary education systems; and (d) the incorporation of ANEP's
        human resource database into the central database of public servants
        of the Planning and Budgeting Office of the Borrower's Presidency.
        ANEP has: (a) through its resolution dated May 27, 2003 staffed its
1    6  internal auditing unit; and (b) through its resolution dated October 9,   Met
        2003 approved the operational procedures of such unit.
        The Borrower has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
1    7  expand to 80% school coverage of four-year-old students during the        Met
        2006 school year.
        5. CODICEN has decided: (a) through its resolution dated August 24,

1    8  2004 to continue implementing national assessments of student
        learning; and (b) through its resolution dated November 16, 2004 to       Met

        participate in 2006 in the Organization of Economic Cooperation and

                                     13

                       Development (OECD) Program for International Student Assessment
                       (PISA 2006).
                        BPS has delivered a report dated April 22, 2005 indicating that the

     1          9      number of beneficiaries of family allowances under Laws No. 17139
                       and No. 17758 published in the Official Gazette on July 29, 1999 and  Met

                       May 10, 2004 respectively, reached 184,252 in December 2004.
                        BPS has issued Resolutions No. 8-5/2005, 8-6/2005 and 8-7/2005, all
                       dated March 31, 2005, and Resolution No. 10-26/2005, dated April
                       13, 2005, improving its disclosure policies, including access to
     1         10      statistical information, access of BPS' directors to databases,       Met
                       authorization to regional managers to provide information to local
                       media, and publication of general resolutions through the internet and
                       the Official Gazette.
                        The Borrower's Ministry of Social Development has created a

     1         11      Directorate for Programs Evaluation, named its director, and designed
                       an impact evaluation and monitoring system for implementation by      Met

                       such Ministry.
Comments




2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Preparation of SPDPL began in April 2005, and was approved by the Bank's Board two months
later. All tranche release conditions had been met by appraisal, and effectiveness and
disbursement followed quickly, since no additional conditions were defined.

A central factor in the successful implementation of SPDPL was the good overall relation
between the Bank and Uruguay's Government. The operation was prepared at the same time the
new CAS was being formulated, in a context of strategic partnership in all sectors.

The Government counterparts, including MEF, OPP, and sector officials, showed a strong
commitment with the operation and its implementation. While some of the actions supported by
the SPDPL had been implemented before the operation was prepared, others were defined and
implemented in a timely manner, in line with the agreements reached during the preparation
process.

Smooth implementation of the operation was facilitated by the strong background analysis
that supported it, including policy notes, analyses conducted during the preparation of previous
operations, and other AAA, such as a Poverty Assessment and a Public Expenditure
Review. Knowing that the operation would be a single-tranche policy support loan with a rapid
disbursement, the team aimed at designing a policy matrix that would not include too many
actions, focusing on their relevance and feasibility.

Risks identified at appraisal (political, economic, and managerial) were well managed in the
context of the mitigating measures proposed at that time. Thus, the team concern with a possible
lack of ownership of ongoing policy reforms by the new government was managed through very
intense dialogue between Bank staff members and official counterparts, in the context of
                                                   14

preparation of new AAA and loan operations and supervision of existing ones. The economic
risks identified at the time of appraisal originated in possible fiscal restrictions in continuing
implementation of supported policies. However, the sound macroeconomic management, in a
favorable international context, helped to control this risk. Finally the potential problems arising
from managing risks (in particular, due to the inexperience of the new Ministry of Social
Development staff) were also managed by the strong support that other agencies with stronger
managing records (in particular, BPS) provided to MIDES.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

(a) M&E design:
During the preparation of SPDPL, a set of indicators to monitor progress with regards to the
PDOs were defined, as indicated in section 6.2 of this ICR. These indicators were selected in
agreement with Government counterparts, considering availability of data at the time of appraisal,
relevance to represent the trends in the different areas and issues included in the operation and
expected availability in the future.

(b) M&E implementation:
Data availability for most indicators was adequate after appraisal, allowing the team and
Government officials to follow up on the policy dialogue initiated during preparation of the loan.
Being a single-tranche policy support operation, the program design for SPDPL did not include a
formal strategy to continuously monitor the evolution of these indicators, but it was focused to
ensure availability at the time of ICR preparation. Data on these indicators are included in Annex
1 of this ICR.


2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Following the approval of SPDPL, the World Bank and the Government have had a very active
policy dialogue to continue collaborating in the area of social policies through development
policy and investment lending, and analytical and advisory services. This collaboration covers
the three social sectors supported by SPDPL (health, education, and social protection), with a
combination of instruments.

In health, a Bank team is preparing, together with the Ministry of Public Health, a technical
assistance loan to support ongoing and planned reforms and programs in the sector3. This
operation, planned to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors in mid 2007, would aim at:
(i) Strengthening the Ministry to improve its monitoring capacity, to improve the quality of
primary     and     secondary     health   prevention      of   non     communicable       diseases,
developing epidemiological      monitoring     and    surveillance     systems;    (ii)   promoting
further improvements in regulatory and supervisory systems for public and private health service
providers; (iii) providing financing for key infrastructure and medical equipment acquisitions for
the primary health care network; and (iv) strengthening the Ministry of Public Health capacity to
implement public health promotion strategies in schools and municipalities, to increase




3National Health Insurance and Social Security Loan (P050716)
                                                 15

prevention under a social inclusion strategy. These areas of action are directly linked to the
policies supported by SPDPL in the sector, and represent a continuation of the same strategy.

In education, an AAA on Equity and Quality of Education4 is being prepared to help define the
policy to improve these two critical areas. The report focuses on the issue of equity in access to
quality education, indicating that the main problems are in the enrollment level of some specific
age groups and on the quality of education received by part of the population. While the
extension of coverage among pre-school children supported by SPDPL has been successful and
continued beyond the original goal, the focus on the quality of that education and on the
necessary strategies and tools to improve it are the next step in policy development for the
sector.

Also, the ongoing Third Basic Education Quality Improvement Project               5 has three basic
objectives, supporting Government efforts to (i) increase equity in the provision of preschool and
primary education, by expanding full time schools; (ii) improve the quality of preschool and
primary education; and (iii), improve the efficiency of the preschool and primary education
system, always with a focus on socio economically disadvantaged and very disadvantaged
contexts. This program has provided substantial support to achieve the SPDPL goal of increasing
preschool coverage.

In social protection, an AAA on Income Transfer Policies6 is being prepared to provide inputs to
the Government for the design of the new "Plan de Equidad", the integrated social policy that
should replace the emergency program "PANES" by the end of 2007. The study is focused on
identifying and assessing policy options, considering the goals (high coverage with reasonable
benefits), restrictions (limited fiscal resources and need to adapt institutional setting), and trying
to reconvert existing programs to support the new policy. Also, a Non-lending Technical
Assistance (P101152) to support the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system of MIDES and the preparation of a PSIA is currently being executed.

A non-lending Technical Assistance project to support the development and institutionalization
of the monitoring and evaluation system of social policy in Uruguay7 is also under execution, as
a follow up of the support provided in SPDPL to the development of the M&E system in MIDES.
This TA focuses on the participatory monitoring system, to ensure that beneficiaries and other
interested citizens are heard in the process of evaluating and redesigning social policies.

Finally, a new programmatic development policy loan8 is being prepared, with the goal of
submitting it to the Bank's Board in early 2007. This operation has a wider scope than the
SPDPL, as it also includes support for a tax reform and improvements in capital markets, but it
includes a social protection component focused on the continued expansion of coverage by the
family allowances program and its eventual role as a core component of the new program "Plan
de Equidad". The PDPL will also support additional improvements in management and



4Education Equity and Quality in Uruguay (P95503)
5Third Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (P070937)
6Income Transfer Policies in Uruguay (P095508)
7Strengthening Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy (P101152)
8First Programmatic Development Policy Loan (P083927)
                                                  16

transparency in BPS, resulting in higher coverage and collection among active workers. An
accompanying technical assistance loan9 will support the implementation of SIAAS, a system to
identify social programs beneficiaries across the country. This system will include information
from health, education, social protection, social insurance and other sectors, resulting in an
unified data base extremely useful to advance in some of the reforms supported by SPDPL in the
health sector (reducing the magnitude of cross-subsidies between public and private providers)
improve targeting of same programs and limit the magnitude of gaps and overlapping in
coverage.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The SPDPL objectives were to "...(i) support the maintenance of macroeconomic stability; (ii)
recognize that Uruguay's social policy response to the economic crisis went considerably beyond
actions supported by the Bank under the Second Special Structural Adjustment Loan; (iii)
support past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms in the education, health, and
social protection sectors to further improve both efficiency and equity in service delivery; and
(iv) assist the early activities of the new administration in various social policy areas, as a
foundation for the Bank's support for the medium-term Government policies." (from SPDPL PD,
par. 63)

These objectives were adopted considering that the country had already adopted important
policies to protect the population from the crisis impacts, and continued its efforts to develop
policy reforms to increase access, equity, efficiency and sustainability in the social sectors.
The new Government early actions were clearly directed in the same direction, providing
continuity and deepening several needed policies in health, education, and social protection. In
that context, the SPDPL objectives were clearly relevant at the time of appraisal in regards to
country priorities, and continue to be relevant at ICR preparation.

Objectives were relevant to the Bank assistance strategy. The SPDPL objectives were aligned
with the new CAS framework, which was submitted to the Board together with the SPDPL. The
SPDPL fits well within the overall strategy of the CAS and, in particular, within the objective of
improving living standards. Also, the SPDPL contributed directly to other objectives adopted by
the CAS, such as state modernization, enhanced transparency, strengthening accountability, and
increased operations efficiency.

Being the first operation prepared and approved under the new CAS and with the new
Government counterparts, the SPDPL had an important role in setting the tone and style of
collaboration between the Bank and the new Government. The operation served as a bridge
between past and future support, indicating that the Bank considered that many policies
originally designed and implemented by the previous government were adequate and necessary,
and that continuation and deepening of these policies would result in better social and economic
conditions for the population.



9 Institutions Building Technical Assistance Loan (P097604)

                                                    17

The near-term Indicators (end 2005) of SPDPL are aligned with the Medium-Term Impact
Indicators defined in the CAS, and advances in these indicators produced under the support of
SPDPL can be already considered as significant steps towards the medium term goals for these
indicators.
The objectives of the SPDPL have contributed to increase the efficiency of reforms, as well as to
promote careful analysis and evaluation in the implementation of social programs.
Implementation of reforms that had started before SPDPL and those initiated as part of it have
continued, in some cases with better results than expected. Thus, the relevance of objectives,
design and implementation is considered satisfactory, based on: (i) the consistency of
Program with Bank and Government priorities; (ii) quality of the design, with a clear focus in the
protection of the most vulnerable; and (iii) adequate implementation, which resulted in increased
sustainability of supported reforms.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

Achievement of Program Development Objectives is considered satisfactory. The three core
objectives of the program - (i) support Uruguay's efforts to maintain a stable macroeconomic
framework; (ii) recognize Uruguay's social policy response to the economic crisis of 2001 and
2002; (iii) support past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms in the health, education,
and social protection sectors; and (iv) assist the early activities of the new administration in
various social policy areas- were achieved as expected, thanks to the results of each individual
action.

The macroeconomic policy in Uruguay achieved its overall objectives, with sustained growth in
a stable context, progressive reductions in the public debt-to-GDP ratio, and positive fiscal
results. Real GDP grew by 6.6 percent in 2005, with inflation at below 5 percent, and
improvements in the exchange rate. Public sector debt (that had reached 104% of GDP in 2003)
declined to 60% of GDP in 2005, and further declines were expected for 2006. Similarly, the
primary balance of the non financial public sector reached a record surplus of 3.9% of GDP in
2005.

In the health sector, the reforms in budgeting, advances in public hospitals billing systems and
improvements in the financial and regulatory management of the catastrophic fund (FNR) were
substantial to recognize past efforts (in particular, regarding the improvement in FNR), and set
up the conditions for a longer term reform process in the health sector, increasing equity (by
reducing cross-subsidies) and efficiency (by improving budgeting criteria and procedures).

In education, the policy actions provided an explicit recognition to past policies by including the
budget protection condition for years 2003-2005. Also, the improvements in the information
management systems in the central education system and at the schools resulted in higher
efficiency in the sector, together with the improvement in control generated by the creation and
implementation of an internal auditing unit at ANEP. The focus on equity was implemented
through the expansion of preschool coverage, which resulted in sustained advances in the
proportion of 4 year old children with access to the formal educational system. This action,
initiated by the previous government and deepened by the new administration, represents a

                                                    18

significant improvement in equity of opportunities for children that previously entered the formal
schooling system in a disadvantaged position. Also, the establishment of a regular program to
measure students' performance will result in a more transparent process to design and implement
policies in the sector.

Finally, in social protection, the SPDPL included an action that recognizes previous efforts (the
approval of the 2000 and 2004 laws providing access to family allowances to poor households)
and continuing policies, as the new government successfully supported the goal of further
expanding coverage in this program. Also, new measures, including the increased transparency
in BPS operation by making public all resolutions of its board of directors and all statistics, and
the design of an evaluation and monitoring plan for social policies were very important to
improve efficiency and support the new administration first steps towards the design of a new
social policy strategy.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating for SPDPL is "satisfactory" since all planned reforms were
implemented in full and they achieved their key objectives of maintaining and improving social
service delivery. Further, in all areas the government continued developing its reform
agenda. The satisfactory rating is considered justified since: (i) the education and health reforms
were strengthened through better management, increased efficiency and the effective protection
of socially-critical budget allocations, (ii) social service delivery indicators were maintained or
improved during the lifetime of the operation; and (iii) the impact of social programs directed to
the poorest population has improved.

Advances in near-term indicators show the positive evaluation of SPDPL outcomes in
quantitative terms. The recognition of past actions in response to the crisis was very effective as
a signal to the new Government regarding the need to give continuity to some of these policies,
which where initiated under the previous government, maintained within the context of SPDPL,
and, in several cases, deepened and considered key components of the medium term strategy by
the new authorities. While in some cases the impacts were indirect, in others it is clear that
actions supported by SPDPL resulted in significant improvements in the near-term indicators
proposed in the program document:

    1. The financial result of FNR (the catastrophic health insurance fund) continued to be
       positive, at 6.8% of revenues. The decline from the previous year (10.6% in 2004) was
       caused by poor financial results, since the operational result (revenue minus cost of
       medical services) went from 10.2% in 2004 to 10.4% in 2005. Data for 2006 is not
       available at the time of ICR preparation (2006 balances for FNR will be available in mid
       2007). However, initial estimates indicate that the balance was positive.
    2. School coverage among 4 year old children exceeded the 80% goal set for 2005, reaching
       83% in mid 2006. This indicator is highly relevant as it shows that not only the coverage
       recovered from the crisis impact, but it reached a new record level, indicating the positive
       trend in the medium term.
    3. As planned, the national assessment of students' performance was applied during 2006.
       Results from the assessment will be available in early 2007

                                                  19

    4. Family allowances for children of informal workers continued to expand. The goal of an
         additional 10% increase during 2005 (reaching 200,000 beneficiaries at the end of the
         year) was obtained and exceeded, reaching 209429 by June 2006. Further improvements
         are expected, but at a slower pace, since officials at BPS estimate that a plateau may have
         been reached.
    5. A monitoring report for PANES was published by the end of 2005, as expected.
         Furthermore, the Direction of Monitoring and Evaluation of MIDES, continued
         publishing analytical reports during 2006, including assessments of PANES impacts,
         beneficiaries profiles, a survey of social programs and, in December 2006, a report on
         Public Social Expenditures since 2000.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

SPDPL supported a set of actions in the three social sectors that aimed, directly or indirectly, at
reducing poverty and improving the overall welfare of Uruguayans. The loan was approved and
implemented in 2005, as the worst stage of the crisis had passed and different socioeconomic
indicators were recovering. Poverty and extreme poverty incidence reached record highs in 2004,
with 31.8% and 3.1% of the population respectively. As the country recovered from the crisis
effects, these indicators began to decline, and by early 2006 nearly 27% of the population was
poor and 2% was affected by extreme poverty. Income distribution was also affected by the crisis,
as the Gini coefficient went from 0.445 in 2001 to 0.46 in 2004. The recovery in this case was
limited, as the coefficient was around 0.452 in early 2006.

Other socioeconomic indicators show similar trends, with some worsening due to the onset of the
crisis in the early 2000s and a recovery as mitigating measures such as those supported by
SPDPL and overall economic improvement had an impact. For example, the infant mortality rate
had grown from around 14 deaths per thousand births in the early 2000s to 15 per thousand in
2003, but recovered and, by 2005, was at 12.7 per thousand.

The implementation of the SPDPL and further measures taken by the Government had an impact
on the social development dimension. As one of the actions supported by the loan (the design of
an M&E system for social policies) was implemented, the Ministry of Social Development
included standard monitoring tools (such as definition of quantitative indicators) but also propose
the adoption of a social monitoring model, which is being developed with support from the
Bank.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

In spite of being a single-tranche project, the SPDPL had a substantial institutional development
impact in the areas involved in the program (education, health and social protection). The
program had an immediate impact in the different institutions, as it supported policies aiming at
improving efficiency and transparency. Better management of FNR (the catastrophic health
insurance scheme) or changes in the budgeting and incentive structure of public hospitals had a
direct impact on these institutions that resulted in stronger and more sustainable policies.
Similarly, the reforms introduced at ANEP (the education board) gave this institution a new

                                                    20

strength to manage the system, limiting previous abuses and lack of transparency. On social
protection, the inclusion of an explicit action in the policy matrix to support the increase in
transparency at BPS represented not only an important gesture of support for a new direction in
the way this institution operates, but resulted in better than expected improvements in terms of
institutional governance. BPS not only began to publish all resolutions and statistics, but it also
made public on a regular basis the studies prepared by its Division of Studies, which produced
analysis of the current status and trends of the system. BPS also collaborated actively in the
organization and implementation of several open workshops. Finally, the development of an
M&E plan at MIDES resulted in a much stronger policy making process. The Department of
Monitoring and Evaluation at MIDES became a central component of the policy making process
for the social sectors, providing analytical and technical inputs to the decision makers that were
not available before. The compilation of a detailed database of PANES beneficiaries was not
only a core element of the targeting and control systems at MIDES, but it was also extremely
useful, together with other datasets managed by BPS, in the analysis of policy options for the
future.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
    Rating: Low or Neglible

Risks identified at time of appraisal were considered to be low to moderate. Three categories of
risks were identified at that point: Political, economic and financial and managerial. After
closing the operation, Risk to Development Outcome is also considered to be negligible to low,
since mitigating measures discussed in the PD are still in place. In particular:

Political Risks: Potential problems were based on the fact that the SPDPL was started with a
Government that was just taking office, while it supported some reforms initiated by the previous
administration. Mitigating measures for this risk included continued dialogue with the
Government through the supervision of an investment loan in education, the preparation of a new
loan in the health sector, support to MIDES through the non lending TA operation, preparation
of a AAA on income transfer policies, and, more recently, preparation of a new DPL and an
accompanying TAL. Nearly 18 months after appraisal, commitment of the Government towards
the reform program continues to be strong and focused.

Economic and Financial Risks: The implementation of reforms required continued financing in a
macroeconomic context of restrictions and high levels of indebtedness.
Mitigating measures for this potential problem resided in the maintenance of a consistent
macroeconomic and fiscal framework, which was achieved in 2005 and 2006.

Managerial Risks: The implementation and consolidation of the reforms included in the SPDPL
required strong managerial abilities. Components of the reform process could have failed if
administrative capacity would have been inadequate. However, the agencies involved (ANEP,
MSP, ASSE, BPS, MIDES, showed a strong commitment and towards achieving the goals of the
program.

                                                     21

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank lending performance is rated as satisfactory. As noted, loan identification and design were
consistent with the CAS, built on the experience of previous operations (SAL and SSAL-II), and
was consistent with the Government's development strategy.

The Bank worked closely with the IDB and other donors on the design of the loan. Policy actions
in the social sectors supported by the SPDPL program were well designed, with an expected
positive impact on social outcomes. The focus on policies that would protect basic services in
health, education and social protection in the wake of the economic crisis was appropriate,
considering the social and economic emergency in the country at the time.

The quality of the project design was satisfactory because it was targeted at key areas in the
education and health sectors and social protection and had the virtue of mobilizing the debate on
basic structural matters at the start of the new Government. The Program made a relevant
contribution to Uruguay's return to stability, and triggered important changes in areas that were
traditionally considered structural constraints.

The assessment of the situation in the social sectors in Uruguay in early 2005 indicated that,
while the crisis had affected some indicators, the Government had already adopted several
policies to mitigate these impacts, and the Bank considered appropriate to recognize these efforts
in this DPL policy matrix.

The choice of specific objectives in the health, education and social protection areas reflects a
thorough knowledge of the sectors in Uruguay, because they each play a key role in the systems.
Resolving of the chronic deficit of the FNR, modifying the performance guidelines for ASSE,
making the ANEP more efficient and incorporating an Internal Audit unit are all highly relevant,
with potential for extension of their impact on the operation of the sectors.

At the time the SPDPL Program was prepared, the Bank made an accurate diagnosis of the social
situation. In particular, it identified the principal risks to which the most vulnerable sectors of the
population were exposed. Working with the Government, the Bank ensured that the SPDPL
Program would provide protection to the most vulnerable sectors of the population, and to
improve the efficiency of the important health, education and social protection programs to
improve and extend their services without incurring additional inefficiencies. The Program was
targeted at key areas in the health, education and social protection sectors, and had the virtue of
mobilizing the debate on basic structural matters in a complex situation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Satisfactory

                                                   22

Bank supervisory performance is rated as satisfactory. Being a single-tranche project and having
been disbursed very shortly after approval, full implementation of all actions supported by the
program had been achieved early on.

However, the team had frequent contacts with counterparts after the loan was fully disbursed,
embedded in the larger program on social policies. Missions reviewing ongoing operations and
preparing new loans or AAA in the three sectors (Education, Health, and Social Protection)
visited Uruguay. Between July 2005, when the loan was declared effective and disbursed, and
June 2006, when it closed, members of the team visited Montevideo more than 20 times to
discuss different aspects of the social policies, to participate in public and closed seminars and
workshops and to interact with official counterparts and independent analysts.

The missions followed up progress on implementing agreed monitoring indicators and discussed
results with MIDES, BPS, ANEP, OPP, MEF, and MSP. The supervision of this Loan helped
ensure continued dialogue with the various authorities of the previous government, as well as
building a bridge to the current administration.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

As both the Quality at Entry and the Quality of Supervision are considered satisfactory, the
Overall Bank Performance is also considered satisfactory. Throughout the full life of the
program, from identification to closing, the team was deeply involved in a policy dialogue
process with authorities and independent counterparts, collaborating to ensure that the underlying
goal of this operation (to provide support to Uruguay in its effort to develop and sustain an
adequate and consistent social program) was achieved.

The combination of policy actions supported in the SPDPL loan with continuous dialogue after
the loan was approved and disbursed in the context of supervision and preparation of other
operations resulted in an intense interaction with counterparts, providing additional sustainability
to policies supported by SPDPL.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Not applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Not applicable
                         Implementing Agency                                   Performance
Ministry of Economy and Finances




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The borrower role in loan preparation is rated as satisfactory. The borrower participated actively
in the preparation of the SPDPL, providing guidance to the Bank team regarding Government
objectives and programs, and discussing specific actions and indicators to be included in the loan
                                                 23

documents. This included the preparation of interviews, information, research, surveys, contacts,
meetings and discussions.

During implementation, the borrower also maintained a proactive attitude, facilitating and
coordinating actions with the Bank and the agencies that participated, ensuring prompt action,
establishing compliance with the conditions laid down in the Program. This demonstrated the
borrower's commitment to the social reforms that had already been begun and to the achieving of
greater transparency and administrative efficiency.

Several Government agencies, including MSP, ANEP, BPS, MIDES, MEF, and OPP
participated during the preparation and implementation of the operation, all with clear
commitment to implement reforms in their respective areas.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

The experience of SPDPL provides important lessons for future operations, as it was a well
designed program, with necessary and feasible policy actions:

(1) In Middle-Income Countries with highly skilled government staff, it is critical to adopt
a social participatory and consultative process in the preparation of the operations.
Continuous dialogue with official counterparts and independent analysts simplified the team's
work during preparation, as the main sectors and policies to be supported were clearly identified.
The topics and areas chosen for the SPDPL Program played key roles in modifying deep-rooted
problems in those sectors, and in paving the way for structural reforms in the near future.

(2) The institutional restrictions of a new administration must be taken into account when
preparing an operation. The context in which policy reforms are designed and implemented at
the time a new government takes office necessarily generates additional restrictions that must be
taken in consideration when designing an operation. In the case of SPDPL, the program
preparation started one month after the new administration - composed mostly by officials with
little or no experience on negotiating with the Bank - took office. However, by working together
on the process of preparing the documents, these problems were rapidly solved, and ownership
of the program was clear.


(3) A one-tranche DPL can be an effective instrument for the Bank to provide continuity to
reform efforts and lay the foundations for programmatic sector dialogue when a new
administration takes office. By working on the preparation of the DPL, the Bank team was able
to engage the new officials in discussions about their medium term plans and possible areas of
collaboration, a process that would have been much more difficult without the SPDPL.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

                                                   24

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                             Title                  Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending

Evelina Bertranou            Junior Professional Associate           LCSHS-
                                                                      DPT    Data preparation

Antonio Leonardo Blasco      Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM Financial Management
Francis J. Earwaker          Consultant                              LCC7C Technical Advisor
Sergio Espana                Consultant                              LCSHE Education
Alejandro Daniel Guerson     Economist                               LCSPE Macroeconomics
Febe Mackey                  Program Assistant                       LCSHD Assistant
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg  Lead Counsel                            LEGLA Legal
Natalia Moncada              Team Assistant                          LCSHH Assistant
Claudia Nin                  Team Assistant                          LCC7C Assistant
Luis Orlando Perez           Sr Public Health Spec.                  LCSHH Health Sector
Rafael P. Rofman             Lead Social Protection Special          LCSHS TTL- Social Protection
Emiliana Vegas               Senior Education Economist              LCSHE TTL- Education
Supervision
Cristina Flood               Consultant                            LCSHS     Technical Advisor
Febe Mackey                  Program Assistant                     LCSHD     Assistant
Sarah Ruth Bailey            Program Assistant                     LCSHS     Assistant
Luis Orlando Perez           Sr. Public Health Spec.               LCSHH     Health
Rafael P. Rofman             Lead Social Protection Special        LCSHS     TTL- Social Protection
Emiliana Vegas               Senior Education Economist            LCSHE     TTL- Education



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage
                                            No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                            16                            55.50
  FY06                                                                          -0.20
  FY07                                                                           0.00
                            Total:                16                            55.30
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                           0.00
  FY06                                                                           0.45
  FY07                                                                           4.04
                            Total:                                               4.49




                                                 25

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     26

27

Annex 7. Map




                28

