Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1581 
Operation Name 
Uruguay Social Program Support Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (60%); General education sector (40%) 
Project ID 
P095028 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY 
Date PID Prepared 
April 28, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 15, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 9, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Following upon a decade of macroeconomic stability and steady growth during the nineties, Uruguay suffered a sharp 
reversal in 1998 with a recession that persisted for more than three years before collapsing into a major economic and 
social crisis that produced a sharp decline in output and public sector revenues, while unemployment and poverty 
grew to levels never experienced before. The crisis originated in financial contagion from Argentina’s debt, currency 
and banking crises. However, while the economy had contracted by 11 percent in 2002, it recovered at 2.5 percent in 
2003 and a remarkable 12.3 percent in 2004. Additionally, a number of significant reforms were introduced in the 
aftermath of the crisis that have improved coverage, equity and efficiency in social spending, among them the 
expansion of the family allowances system to households in the informal sector.  Further, the new administration has 
already introduced initiatives that reinforce an improve policy framework for health and education and has expanded 
interventions in social protection that are considered critical to assist the most vulnerable groups. 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed SPDPL would be a stand-alone, single-tranche development policy loan (DPL) that would (i) recognize 
Uruguay’s social policy response to the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002; (ii) support past and ongoing structural and 
administrative reforms in the health, education, and social protection sectors; and (iii) assist the early activities of the 
new administration in various social policy areas. The SPDPL would also lay the foundation for a program of future 
Bank assistance, as outlined in the FY05-FY10 CAS, in support of Uruguay’s social policy programs through 
multisector programmatic DPLs, as well as through investment and technical assistance operations. The proposed 
SPDPL would support specific actions to increase the efficiency, coverage and sustainability of Uruguay’s health, 
education and social protection sectors and programs. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
As outlined in the CAS, the third pillar of the Bank’s assistance strategy over the 2005-2009 period would be 
supporting the overall outcome of ‘improving living standards’ and the proposed Development Policy Loan would be 
the first in a series of support operations for Uruguay in that context. Other operations to be prepared in the next few 
years (both investment, technical assistance and DP loans) would continue the support to Uruguay’s effort to recover 
its tradition as a highly equitable country, with low levels of poverty and efficient social institutions, while 
contributing to the efforts of the country to service and smoothly reduce its public debt over time. 
4. Financing 
 
This is a single-tranche operation for a total of US$75,38 million. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Implementation of actions supported by this operation will be responsibility of each sectoral Ministry and Agency, 
with the coordination of the Office of Planning and Budget. 
Page  2
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits. 
The policy measures supported by the SPDPL are expected to lead to: (i) a steeper reduction in poverty levels in the 
aftermath of the crisis, over and above that which would have resulted without the supported measures; and (ii) improved 
equity and efficiency of social sector expenditures. While some of the actions proposed would have an immediate impact, 
others are expected to improve Uruguay’s social conditions over time. 
Risks. 
Given that the SPDPL is single-tranche, the associated risks are considered low to moderate. Risks of non-compliance with 
expected actions are considered minimal as they will be complied with before consideration by the Bank’s Board. However, 
there are important sustainability risks, as some of the SPDPL-supported actions represent the starting point of reforms that 
will require continuation over time to be effective. These sustainability risks can be classified as political, economic, and 
managerial. Political risks relate to the potential lack of ownership of reforms initiated by the former administration. These 
risks are expected to be mitigated by the expectations of a continued strong and sustained policy dialogue with the 
Government. Economic and financial risks relate to the possibility of eventual fiscal restrictions that would limit 
implementation of proposed reforms, potential debt sustainability problems in Uruguay and external shocks caused by 
unexpected economic downturns in neighboring countries. This risk is mitigated by the inclusion of program expenditures in 
the Government’s five-year budget and the expectations that the Government will maintain a sustainable macroeconomic 
framework. Finally, managerial risks relate to the possible difficulties in managing new sectoral programs and systems 
because of the potential shortage of trained human resources. This risk is mitigated by sectoral ministries’ efforts to train their 
staff at the local levels and by cross support provided across ministries (in particular, from the Social Security Fund to the 
new Ministry of Social Development). 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The SPDPL would support improvements in health, education and social protection that have taken place over recent years, 
as well as actions taken by the new administration to further mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on social indicators. 
The actions supported by the program are expected to further alleviate the impact of the economic crisis on the vulnerable 
groups in Uruguayan society. The SPDPL is expected to have medium- and long-term positive effects on both efficiency and 
equity of social expenditures and investments.  
In health, the actions supported by the program in the medium term are expected to result in implementation of a national 
health insurance system, in a reduction of the fiscal transfers to BPS to better align with the medium term macroeconomic 
framework, and in significant increases in the share of health sector expenditures directed to primary and preventive care 
services. 
In education, the actions supported by SPDPL are expected to result in medium-term improvements in primary and secondary 
coverage and efficiency, universal enrollment of 4-year olds in preschool, and in an improved education quality in basic and 
secondary school.  
In social protection, the actions supported by the SPDPL are expected to result in the medium term in an expansion of 
informal workers’ access to social insurance programs, in a more flexible, inclusive and fiscally sustainable social insurance 
system, and in an efficient targeting of the emergency program.  
Several of the supported actions aim at reducing inequities in access to social services, including for the indigenous and afro-
Uruguayan population. It can be expected that these groups, among the most vulnerable in Uruguay, would specifically 
benefit from the supported reforms.  
The proposed loan will not support specific measures that are likely to have significant effects on the environment. Actions 
included in the policy matrix aimed (and are aiming) to increase quality and access to basic social services by the poor by 
improving fiscal and financial conditions and strengthening the institutions involved in service delivery. As such, the loan is 
not expected to have any significant impact on the environmental situation in Uruguay. The Policy Matrix includes actions 
affecting the health delivery system, which could have an indirect impact on the environment with regard to practices on 
health care waste management. The team and sector specialists judge that the supported actions should not have significant 
effects on the environment, as no specific actions regarding micro or macro management of health care waste are supported 
by the proposed loan. 
Page  3
8. Contact points 
 
Rafael Rofman 
Title: Senior Economist 
Phone: (54-11) 4316-9700 
Fax: (54-11) 4313-1233 
Email: rrofman@worldbank.org 
 
Emiliana Vegas 
Title: Education Economist 
Phone: (1-202-458-9836) 
Email: evegas@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
