Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1556 
Operation Name 
Uruguay Social Program Support Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (60%);General education sector (40%) 
Project ID 
P095028 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY 
Date PID Prepared 
April 18, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 3, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 7, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following upon a decade of macroeconomic stability and steady growth during the nineties, Uruguay suffered a 
economic sharp reversal in 1998 with a recession that persisted for more than three years before collapsing into a 
major economic and social crisis that produced a sharp decline in output and public sector revenues, while 
unemployment and poverty grew to levels never experienced before. The crisis originated in financial contagion from 
Argentina’s debt, currency and banking crises. However, while the economy had contracted by 11% in 2002, it 
recovered at 2.5% in 2003 and a remarkable 12.3 percent in 2004. Additionally, a number of significant reforms were 
introduced in the aftermath of the crisis that have improved coverage, equity and efficiency in social spending, among 
them the expansion of the family allowances system to households in the informal sector.  Further, the new 
administration has already introduced initiatives that reinforce an improved policy framework for health and 
education and has expanded interventions in social protection that are considered critical to assist the most vulnerable 
groups. 
The World Bank supported Uruguay’s efforts to overcome the crisis’ effects through two Structural Adjustment and 
two Special Structural Adjustment Loans, which supported macroeconomic, fiscal, public services and social sector 
reforms. Two tranches of the Second Special Adjustment Loan, which focused on social policies, remain to be 
disbursed. Although basic conditionalities for this loan are satisfied, the Government is requesting its cancellation, as 
the emergency nature of the loan no longer applies and it’s associated debt service would only add to an already high 
debt service burden in the coming years.  
In this context, the Government has requested a new Development Policy Loan (DPL) that would reflect the reforms 
being undertaken in a more comprehensive manner, facing a number of serious remaining challenges. The proposed 
Social Program Development Policy Loan (SPDPL) would recognize the actions and reforms taken by the 
Government over the last two years as well as to support the early actions taken by the new Government, especially in 
the areas of education, health and social protection. 
As outlined in the CAS, the third pillar of the Bank’s assistance strategy over the 2005-2009 period would be 
supporting the overall outcome of ‘improving living standards’ and the proposed Development Policy Loan would be 
the first in a series of support operations for Uruguay in that context. Other operations to be prepared in the next few 
years (both investment, technical assistance and DP loans) would continue the support to Uruguay’s effort to recover 
its tradition as a highly equitable country, with low levels of poverty and efficient social institutions, while 
contributing to the efforts of the country to service and smoothly reduce its public debt over time. 
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The proposed SPDPL would be a stand-alone, single-tranche operation that would (i) recognize Uruguay’s social policy 
response to the economic crisis which went considerably beyond support offered by the Bank under the Second Special 
Structural Adjustment Loan; (ii) support past and ongoing structural and administrative reforms in the education and health 
Page  2
sectors; and (iii) assist the early activities of the new administration in various social policy areas.  As such, the loan would 
also lay the foundation for the Bank’s future support for social policy in the form of multisector programmatic DPLs, as well 
as Investment and Technical Assistance operations, as discussed in the new CAS.  
Apart from maintaining an appropriate macro-economic framework, the proposed policy matrix would include 
 
Support for reforms in the health sector
:
This could include the recognition of advances in reforming the budget 
allocation and incentives structure for public hospitals as well as the policy measures already taken in the reform of 
cross-subsidy reduction and to improve the financial standing of the high complexity financing system (FNR).  With 
respect to early reform measures of Government, the matrix could recognize the important steps to reform the regulatory 
framework of the health sector by decentralizing the public sector provider (ASSE) 
Support of  effective budget protection in critical education programs.
 
In a context of serious fiscal restraint, the 
Government has protected key social expenditures over the least years which would be recognized in the policy matrix.   
Support of  efficiency and equity reforms in the education sector
:
The Government has already implemented a number 
of administrative reforms in the education administration ANEP and  consolidated  those reforms in a Master Plan for 
ANEP’s informatization.  Additionally, the loan might support the new plan of CODICEN to expand coverage and 
improve quality and retention of initial, primary and secondary schools as well as to provide support for the 
formalization of the inclusion of teachers and other civil society organizations in ANEP’s policy discussion; 
Support the expansion and poverty orientation of  social protection programs.
 
The proposed loan could also include the 
recognition of the achieved expansion of coverage of the family allowances system to include informal and unemployed 
workers.  Finally, the policy matrix could support a number of early actions by the new administration which could lay 
the foundation for social security and health policy reform. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
As the operation would focus on social policies at the macro level, no significant impacts on the environmental  
situation 
in Uruguay are expected.. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
As the operation would focus on social policies at the macro level, no significant impacts on the environmental situation in 
Uruguay are expected.. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source  IBRD 
Total: 75 US$m 
 
 
6. Contact points 
 
Contact:  Rafael Rofman 
Title: Senior Economist 
Phone: (54-11) 4316-9700 
Fax: (54-11) 4313-1233 
Email: 
rrofman@worldbank.org
Contact: Emiliana Vegas 
Title: Education Economist 
Phone: (1-202-458-9836) 
Email: 
evegas@worldbank.org
Page  3
