Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 17870-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 230 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 29, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1998)
Currency Unit          RMB
RMB1            US$0.12
US$1           RMB8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP    - Eighth Five Year Plan (1991 1995)               LA&R   - Land Acquisition and Resettlement
9FYP    - Ninth Five Year Plan (1996 2000)                LZE      - Liughouhe-Zhonghe Expressway in
Gansu
1 OFYP   - Tenth Five Year Plan (2001 2005)               MOC    - Ministry of Communications
BDH      - Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner Mongolia     MOF    - Ministry of Finance
BFH      - Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway in Inner         MTE    - Medium truck equivalent
Mongolia
BOT      - Build-operate-transfer                         NCB      - National Cornpetitive Bidding
CAS      - Country Assistance Strategy                    NCD      - Ningxia Communications Department
E&M      - Electrical, electronic and mechanical          NTHS   - National Trunk Highway System
EA       - Environmental Assessment                       PAD       - Project Appraisal Document
EAP      - Environmental Action Plan                       PCD      - Provincial Communications Department
EIA      - Environmental Impact Assessment                 PCU      - Passenger car unit
ENPV    - Estimated net present value                     PEO         Project Execution Office
ERR      - Economic Rate of Retum                         PSB       - Public Security Bureau
ES       - Executive Summary (Environmental Report)       RAP    *- Resettlement Action Plan
GNP      - Gross national product                         RIPA        Roads Improvement for Poverty
Alleviation
GOVAI  - Gross output value of agriculture and industry   RMC    - Resident Mission China
GPCD    - Gansu Provincial Communications Department      RMF    - Road maintenance fee
GWH      - Guyoazi-Wangquanliang Highway in Ningxia        SAA     - State Audit Administration
ICB      - Intemational Competitive Bidding                SOE     - Statement of Expenditures
IEE      - Initial Environmental Evaluation                SPC     - State Planning Commission
IMAR    - Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region                XJH      - Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway in Gansu
IMCD    - Inner Mongolia Communications Department         YXH    - Yanchi-Xingren Highway in Ningxia
IST      - Institutional Strengthening and Training
Vice President:                Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:              Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                Jeffrey Gutman
Task Manager:                  Hatim Hajj



CHINA
Tri-Provincial Highway Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
Block  1:Project Description    ....................................................................2
1.   Project Development Objective and Key Performance  Indicators  ...............                                             ....................2
2.   Project Components   ....................................................................2
3.   Benefits and  Target Population   .........................                               ........................................... 6
4.   Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements   ..............................................................                              7
Block 2:  Project Rationale   ................................................................... 9
5.   CAS  Objectives Supported  by the Project   ....................................................................                             9
6.   Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy   ..................................................................9
7.  Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices .                                                 ............................. 10
8.   Project Alternatives Considered  and Reasons for Rejection    ...................                                      .......................  10
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies .                                                                   11
10. Lessons Learned  and Reflected  in Proposed  Project Design   .................                                       ........................   12
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and  Ownership   ................... ...............................   12
12. Value Added  of Bank  Support    ............................                                 .......................................   13
Block 3:    Summary  Project Assessments   ..................................                                       .................................   13
13. Economic ...................................................................   13
14. Financial ...................................................................   14
15. Technical ...................................................................                                                               14
16. Institutional ................................................................... 14
17. Social ...................................................................   15
18. Environmental ...................................................................   17
19. Participatory  Approach    ...................................................................   18
20. Sustainability   ...................................................................   19
21. Critical Risks   ...................................................................   20
22. Possible Controversial Aspects   ............................                                 .......................................   21
Block 4:    Main  Loan  Conditions   ...................................................................   21
23. Agreement Reached  with the Government  ...................................................................   21
24. Agreement Reached  with  the Beneficiary   ...................................................................    21
25. Readiness for Implementation   ........................                                  ...........................................  22
Block  5:    Compliance  with  Bank  Policies  ..................................                                   .................................   23



Page No.
Annexes
Annex 1.             Project Design Summary  ...................................... 24
Annex 2.            Detailed Description of Main Highways .............             ......................... 33
Annex 3.             Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) ......................................  36
Annex 4.             Institutional Strengthening and Training .............         ......................... 42
Annex 5.             Highway Safety Improvement ...................................... 44
Annex 6.            Estimated Project Costs ......................................  54
Annex 7.             Financing Plan  ......................................  58
Annex 8.            Implementation Program   ...................................... 60
Annex 9.             Economic and Financial Evaluation  ...................................... 654
Annex 10.           Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  .......................... ............ 69
Annex 11.            Socio-economic Surveys ......................................8 10
Annex 12.           Resettlement Action Plans  ......................................  85
Annex 13.            Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary  ....................................  90
Annex 14.           Project Processing Budget and Schedule  ...............          ....................... I00
Annex 15.           Documents in the Project File  ...................................... 101
Annex 16.            Statement of Loans and Credits  ...................................... 103
Annex 17.           Country at a Glance ...................................... 106
MAPS
1.  China, Major Highway Development Program, IBRD 29472
2.  Inner Mongolia Transport System, IBRD 29473
3.  Inner Mongolia, Baotou-Dongsheng and Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highways, IBRD 29474
4.  Gansu, Transport System, IBRD 29475
5.  Gansu, Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway and Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway, IBRD 29476
6.  Ningxia Transport System and Guyaozi-Wangquanliang and Yanchi-Xingren Highways, IBRD 2947



Project Appraisal Document
China
Tri-Provincial Highway Project
Date: May29, 1998                                       []    Draft             [X]    Fina
I
Task Manager: Hatim Hajj         Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Gutman
Project ID: CN-PE-45788           Sector: Transportation
Lending Instrument: SIL           PTI:       [ ]   Yes          [X]    No       [1
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan    [ ]  Credit   [] Guarantee []  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 230.0
Proposed Terms:                       []   Multicurrency    [X] Single currency (US$) LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years): 5          []   Standard Variable []  Fixed-       []
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: n.a.%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign      Total
Government                                              419.3              9.4         428.7
Cofinanciers
IBRD/IDA                                                                  230.0        230.0
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
TOTAL                                                   419.3             239.4        658.7
Borrower: Peoples' Republic of China (Ministry of Finance)
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (Communications Department), Gansu Province
(Communications Department), Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (Communications
Department)
Estimated disbursements   1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004     2005
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual   27.6      48.3      55.2      46.0       27.6      20.7      4.6
Cumulative   27.6      75.9     131.1     177.1     204.7     225.4    230.0
Expected effectiveness date: November, 1998             Closing date: June 30, 2005



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 2
Country: China                                            Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The proposed project would have the following objectives: (a) to increase efficiency and safety of transport in
one or two highway priority corridors in each of the provinces of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, Gransu
and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. This objective would be achieved through the construction of new
highways and/or improvement of existing highways in these corridors in order to facilitate faster socio-
economic development in these land-locked provinces. Achievement of this primary objective would be
evaluated based on average travel speeds, daily traffic volumes, and traffic accident rates on the proposed and
existing highways in each corridor, (b) to provide improved access to targeted poor counties in each of the three
provinces. The three provinces have about 7.2 million poor people (14% of the population) which represent
about 10% of the total poor population in China. The three provinces account for 4.3% of the total population of
China and have a gross domestic product per capita of about 62% of the national average. Progress toward this
objective will be monitored through daily traffic volumes on improved roads and a reduction in the number of
days roads are closed to traffic. Other objectives include: promoting development of institutional capacities in
each of the three provinces in the areas of highway planning, design, supervision, operation and maintenance of
the highway network. This would be achieved through provision of modem equipment and training of staff
within China and abroad. Progress toward this objective will be measured and monitored based on: provision of
new equipment and number of person-months of training in the various areas. The project also aims to help
increase safety of road transport. This objective will be achieved through establishment of a coordination
mechanism between the highway departments and the traffic police, analyses of traffic data, and developmnent
and implementation of a pilot program for treatment of traffic accident black spots. Achievement of this
objective would be evaluated based on reductions in the number of fatalities and injuries per year.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description of the main highways; Annex 3 for the road
improvement program for poverty alleviation (RIPA); Annex 4 for the details of the institutional strengthening
and training component (IST); Annex 5 for the highway safety component; Annex 6 for a detailed cost
breakdown and Annex 7 for a detailed financing plan).
The proposed project would include:
(a) Construction of Main Highways with a total length of about 687 km comprising:
Baotou-Dongsheng Highway (103 km) of which 92 km are 4-lane Class 1 highway and 11 km are 2-lane Class 2
highway and Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen 2 -lane Class 2 Highway (142km) in Inner Mongolia; Liugouhe-Zhonghe 4-
lane expressway (33.5 km) and Xujiamo-Jiepaicun 2-lane Class 2 Highway (64 km) in Gansu; and Guyaozi-
Wangquanliang Highway (94.0 km of which about 83km provide two lanes for traffic movement on a 4-lane
Class I Highway subgrade and about l1km are 2-lane Class 2 Highway) and Yanchi-Xingren 2-lane Class 2
Highway (250.5 km) in Ningxia.
(b) Construction and Improvement of about 1892 km of Rural Roads in poor counties of which 836km ate in
Inner Mongolia, 803km in Gansu, and 253km in Ningxia.
(c) A program for strengthening of institutions in each province in the areas of highway planning, design,
supervision, construction, operation and maintenance.
(d) A highway safety program to help reduce traffic accidents on highways.
Main Highways
Description of the main highways (listed above) as well as the supervision of their construction is
presented in Annex 2. Besides construction of the main roads, included are the construction of linking roads,
traffic safety facilities such as traffic signs and pavement markings, guard rails and fences on both sides of the
high-grade highways. Also, these roads include construction of buildings and sheds for management and
maintenance of the highways, facilities for toll stations and service areas; power, lighting, tolling,
telecommunications and traffic monitoring systems. In order for the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (LZE) to
realize its economic benefits and better serve Lanzhou (the capital of Gansu) it is essential that the linking roa.d at
Tianshuilu interchange be constructed and properly tied to the Lanzhou street network. This means that besides
the 1.3km of the link included in the project, another 1.8km extension to the south should be constructed. The
municipality of Lanzhou gave its written commitment to the Bank that it would construct this link using its own
funds and would complete it before LZE is finished



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 3
Country: China                                                    Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Component                    Category      Cost Incl.      % of      Bank       % of Bank
Contingencies    Total   Financing    Financing
(US$M)                 (US$M)
A. Inner Mongolia Province
1. Construction of New Main Roads            Physical      222.0             87.2     75.6        94.4
a) Baotou-Dongsheng Hwy (103km)                          175.4                      60.1
b) Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen 2-lane Class 2 Hwy               46.6                      15.5
(142km)
2. Construction and Improvement of about 836  Physical       19.0             7.4
km of rural roads in poor counties
3. Program for strengthening of institutions in the    Institutio  12.7       5.0       4.2         5.3
areas of highway planning, design, supervision,  n-Building
construction, operation and maintenance
4. Highway Safety Program                     Policy-         1.0             0.4       0.2        0.3
Physical
Subtotal for Inner Mongolia                         254.7           100.0      80.0       100.0
B. Gansu Province
1. Construction of New Main Roads             Physical      216.8            85.5      90.3       90.3
a) Liugouhe-Zhonghe 4-lane Expressway                    145.5                      60.7
(33.5km long bypass to Laonzhou).
b) Xujiamo-Jiepaicun 2-lane Class 2 Auto-                 71.3                      29.6
Only Hwy (64km)
2. Construction and Improvement of about 803km  Physical     22.7             9.0
of rural roads in poor counties.
3. Program for strengthening of institutions in the    Institutio  13.0       5.1       9.5        9.5
areas of highway planning, design, supervision,  n-Building
construction, operation and maintenance.
4. Highway Safety Program                     Policy          1.0             0.4       0.2        0.2
Physical
Subtotal for Gansu                                  253.5           100.0    100.0        100.0
C. Ningxia Province
1. Construction on new right-of-way and/or    Physical      135.8            90.2      45.6       91.2
improvement of Main Roads.
a) Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Hwy (94.0 km)     Physical       90.5                      30.5
b) Yanchi-Xingren ordinary Class 2 Hwy                    45.3                      15.1
(250.5km)
2. Construction and improvement of about 253km  Physical      7.2             4.8
of rural roads in poor counties
3. Program for Strengthening of institutions in the    Institutio  7.0        4.7       4.2        8.4
areas of highway planning, design, supervision,  n-Building
construction, operation and maintenance
4. Highway Safety Program                     Policy-         0.5             0.3       0.2        0.4
physical
Subtotal of Ningxia                                 150.5           100.0      50.0       100.0
D. Three Provinces
I. Construction of 6 main highways (687km)    Physical      574.6            87.2    211.5        91.9
2. Construction and Improvement of about      Physical       48.9             7.4
1892km of rural roads in poor counties.
3. Program for strengthening of institutions in the    Institutio  32.7       5.0      17.9        7.8
areas of highway planning, design, supervision,  n-Building
construction, operation and maintenance.
4. Highway Safety Program                     Policy-         2.5             0.4       0.6        0.3
Physical                                        ___    ____
TOTAL FOR 3 PROVINCES                               658.7            100.0    230.0       100.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 4
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE45788)
The Central Government and the Provincial governments attach great importance to the construction
of these highways. They serve high priority corridors containing a significant part of the population and
economic activity in each province. The Baotou-Dongsheng Highway serves Baotou (the largest and main
industrial city in Inner Mongolia) as well as mineral extraction (mainly rare earth and coal) along the
corridor and the very large Dalad power plant. The Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway serves one of the
poorest areas in Inner Mongolia and constitutes an important segment of the national trunk highway (no.208)
extending from Erlian in Inner Mongolia in the north to Taiyuan (Shanxi Province), Xian (Shaanxi
Province), Chengdu (Sichuan Province), Kunming (Yunnan Province) and Hekou in Yunnan Province.
The Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway and the Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway form an important section
of the east-west national trunk highway (no.310 and 312) extending for about 5000 km from Lianyungang
port on the East China Sea in the east to Huoergousi at the border with Kazhakhastan in the west. The
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway serves as a bypass to Lanzhou and forms an important link of the road
connecting Lanzhou to its airport, about 70 kms to the west.
The Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway is an extension of the recently completed Class 1 Highway from
Yinchuan (the capital of Ningxia) to Guyaozi to the east. It is a part of National trunk highway extending
from Yinchuan to Taiyuan, Jinan and the port of Qingdao (Shandong Province) in the east on the East China
Sea. It serves the rich coal and petroleum resources in the east of Ningxia. The other highway in Ningxia
(Yanchi-Xingren) lies in an important east-west corridor and its improvement is essential for the
development of the poor rural areas along it.
Road Improvement Program for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)
The primary objective of the RIPA component is to help alleviate poverty, in each of the three
provinces, by providing and improving all-weather access to the rural population in the poor counties.
Experience with other Bank-financed projects in China, (Shaanxi and Henan), indicates that provision of
basic access through all-weather roads and provision of non-motorized transport are contributing factors to
reducing poverty in rural areas. These provinces are land-locked, sparsely populated (which increases the
cost of providing infrastructure facilities), and relatively poor. Agriculture/livestock/forestry and mineral
extraction are the main resources in these provinces. The gross domestic product per capita in the three
provinces is about 62% of the national average. The three provinces have about 7.2 million poor people of
which 2.5 million are in Inner Mongolia, 4.0 million in Gansu and 0.7 million in Ningxia. Lack of transport
infrastructure is one of the factors contributing to the depressed economic conditions in these provinces
(Annex 3).
The roads to be included in the RIPA component for each province were based on a series of
screenings. The first dealt with selection of poor counties, the second focused on types of roads to be
chosen, the third centered on highway system continuity, the fourth was based on criteria of cost
effectiveness of providing road access, and the fifth on economic and social evaluation of the various
highway systems.
Inner Mongolia has 50 counties and banners designated as poor, Ningxia has 11 such counties and
Gansu has 49 counties. Sixteen of these poor counties were selected in Inner Mongolia, 5 in Ningxia and :23
in Gansu for provision of rural roads under the project because they are some of the poorest counties and to
reflect the priorities of the provinces in conjunction with their five-year development plans (1996-2000) and
their eighth 7-year plan for poverty alleviation (1994-2000).
The roads to be considered for inclusion in RIPA are primarily lower level roads (Class 4 or lower)
with priority given to low-cost new construction or upgrading of existing roads. The road segments were
combined into systems based upon groupings of administrative villages and townships and connections to the
prefectural/provincial highway system. Cost effectiveness relates to the cost of each system per person in
the area of influence. The economic and social analyses for the RIPA systems are presented under other
sections of this PAD.
The agreed RIPA component consists of about 1892 km of which 836 km are in Inner Mongolia,
253 km in Ningxia and 803 km in Gansu. The total cost of this system is about Y390 million, of which Y157
million are for Inner Mongolia, Y60 million are for Ningxia and Y173 million are for Gansu. RIPA in each
province will be implemented through annual packages, each consisting of few road systems. The first
annual package was fully prepared by each province and found satisfactory by the Bank from technical,
economic, social, environmental and resettlement points of view. Packages for 1999 and 2000 would include



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 5
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
an economic and social benefit analyses including evidence that each of the proposed systems meets the
agreed ERR criteria, technical analyses, including proposed works and estimated costs; environmental
analyses for each system in accordance with the stipulations of Annex 13, and a resettlement action plan in
accordance with the provisions of Annex 12. Each package submitted for approval will also include an
implementation plan, a plan for supervision of construction and a maintenance plan. The provinces have the
required staff, management, organization, and know-how to plan, design, supervise and maintain the RIPA
systems.
Institutional Strengthening/Training
The objective of this component is to strengthen, through in-country training, training and study
abroad, as well as the provision of critical and technically appropriate equipment, the capacity of the three
departments (GPCD, IMCD and NCD) to plan, construct, operate and maintain the proposed highways to be
financed under this project. In the light of their rapidly expanding investment and maintenance program,
their capacity to operate and maintain the current provincial road and highway system will also be
strengthened. Because of the specific needs of each province, the priority areas to be addressed differ
somewhat for each. However, the common areas include: highway engineering, highway and equipment
maintenance, financial management, and the operations and management of high-grade highways. The
component also strengthens the provinces' institutional capabilities to train qualified technical and
supervisory personnel for the maintenance of their respective highway networks. Additional training and
equipment for environmental protection, highway safety, and RIPA (not included in Gansu) are incorporated
in this component. The specific institutions in each province which will benefit from the provision of
training and equipment are included in Table 1 of Annex 4 this document. The total cost of the combined
Institutional Strengthening and Training component is Y76.7 million, of which Y24.2 million is in foreign
currencies.
(i)   Inner Mongolia: Investment for this component is about Y45.6 million (of which Y1 1.6 million is
in foreign currencies). Training accounts for Y13.5 million and equipment Y32.1 million. The priority areas
for strengthening include Expressway Construction Supervision, Operations Management (including toll
collection); techniques of Highway Survey and Design adapted to the Inner Mongolia topography; Road
maintenance; and Strengthening of the Communications Technical School. As shown in Table 2 of Annex 4
a total of 418 personnel (622 persons/months) will be trained: within Inner Mongolia (122 p/ni); in other
training institutions in China (360 p/m); in institutions abroad (99 p/m) and in Short Study Tours Abroad (41
p/m).
(ii)    Gansu: investment for this component totals RMB Y17.4 million (of which RMB Y9.5 million is in
foreign currencies). Training accounts for 8.4 million and equipment Y9.0 million. The priority areas for
strengthening include Highway and Bridge Engineering, Engineering Supervision, Highway Maintenance
and Management; Traffic Engineering; and a strengthening of the Provincial Communications School. A
total of 450 staff (537 person/months) will be undergoing training: 333 person/months within Gansu
province, 111 p/m in other parts of China, 52 p/m for training abroad and 41 p/m for short-term study tours.
(iii)   Ningxia: Investment for this component totals Y13.8 million (of which Y4.2 million is in foreign
currencies). Training accounts for Y7.1 million and equipment Y6.7 million. The priority areas for
strengthening include Expressway Construction Supervision, Operations and Management; Highway and
Bridge Engineering Survey and Design; Highway Maintenance and Strengthening of the Communications
Technical School. A total of 1130 personnel (970 persons/months) will be trained: within Ningxia (710
p/m); in other training institutions in China (204 p/m); in institutions abroad (21 p/m) and in Short Study
Tours abroad (35 p/rn). The IST report submitted by each province is available in the project files.
Highway Safety
The traffic safety situation in Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (as in
other provinces in China) is serious. During the past few years almost 3,000 persons per year were killed by
traffic accidents in these provinces. The number killed per 100,000 persons is not high and is comparable
with rates of developed nations, but the number killed per 10,000 vehicles is very high and is at least 10
times higher than the rate of Western Europe and North American countries. Also, the severity rate (defined
as the number killed divided by the number of killed and injured) is high. This situation is expected to get
worse unless some appropriate actions are taken because of the fast pace of increase in vehicles and because



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 6
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
China is in the early stages of motorization.
Due to the alarming safety situation, the Bank engaged the services of a safety expert under the
Finnish Trust Funds. The expert visited all three provinces, studied the topic, identified the problems and
developed a modest program to improve highway safety for inclusion in this project (Annex 5). The main
components of this program are:
(a) Establishment of a high-level, traffic coordination group to coordinate between the Communication
Department and the Traffic Police (the two main agencies responsible for highway safety) in each province
as well as a traffic safety Secretariat to prepare the work for the coordination group.
(b) Analyses and summary of highway traffic accidents during the past three years for which data is available
to determine the main factors contributing to accidents and to identify priority areas for future actions. In
addition, Inner Mongolia will conduct a study of the effects of different highway design features on highway
accidents. The terms of reference for these studies are available in the project file.
(c) Identification, design and carrying out a pilot program of accident black spot improvements together with
provision of the required equipment, training of local staff and traffic safety expertise. The three provinces
agreed to use the same international expert(s) for this task to achieve better coordination and reduce costs.
The total effort by international expert(s) is 4.5 person-months, or 1.5 person-month per province. Each
province agreed to allocate the necessary funds for this element (about Y5.1 million in Gansu, Y4.8 million
in Inner Mongolia and Y2.1 million in Ningxia). A total of about 60 spots in all three provinces will be
improved.
(d) Development of three highway safety manuals. Gansu will be responsible for the highway Maintenance
Safety Manual, Inner Mongolia for the Highway Design Safety Manual and Ningxia for the Highway
Construction Manual. The three provinces will cooperate in the development of these manuals and will use
Chinese and international experts in this exercise. A total of 3 person-months of international expertise
would be needed (or I person-month per province).
(e) Development of Safety Audit Procedures by Gansu on the basis of similar work in other Bank-financed
highway projects (such as Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway and Second Henan Provincial Highway Project).
(f) Provision of equipment to support the above-mentioned activities which includes for each province a
four-wheel drive vehicle, photo camera, video camera, scanner, speed radar, portable personal computers
with printers, other computers.
(g) Evaluation of the implementation of the Road Safety Program in each province by an independent local
expert.
3. Benefits and target population:
The measured benefits of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs and in time savings to
vehicle occupants. For the RIPA components of the project, expected increases in children's accessibility to
schools and the populations expected increased use of medical services have also been estimated, but not
valued in monetary units.
Another important unquantified benefit of the project will be a reduction in road accidenl:s,
particularly fatalities, to both motorized and non-motorized road users. For motorized vehicles, provision of
highways with a median between traffic in opposing directions will result in a reduction in the frequent and
often fatal head-on accidents to motorized road users. For non-motorized road users, safety will be increased
in two ways. First, by providing grade separation at intersections and limiting crossing places for pedestrians
and non-motorized vehicles, the number of potentially dangerous conflicts will be reduced. Second, the auto-
only highways included in the project will attract many motorized vehicles from the present multi-use
highways, again reducing the number of conflict situations with users of non-motorized vehicles.
Most of the motorized vehicles on the roads to be improved are medium-size trucks and buses. E,y
reducing the operating costs of these vehicles and encouraging the use of larger trucks, the efficiency of the
extractive and manufacturing industries in these poor provinces will increase, making their products moire
competitive in the national economy. In addition, the improved accessibility to sea ports will be a necessary
but not sufficient condition for these provinces to attract foreign direct investment, and thereby reduce their
income differential with the more prosperous coastal provinces. A reduction in bus operating costs will make
possible a reduction in real fares to passengers, particularly since there is competition between bus operators
on most of the principal highways included in the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 7
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
A further unquantified benefit of the project would be a strengthened capability of the agencies
responsible for the planning, design, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance of highways in
each of the three provinces. Improved technology and stricter supervision of construction should lead to
improvements in the quality of construction and maintenance of all highways in the three provinces, while
practices in environmental assessment and protection, land acquisition and resettlement, and socio-economic
surveys particularly in areas with significant minority populations, should all be enhanced.
Target Population
The three provinces included in the project are the third, eighth, and fifteenth poorest out of thirty
one provinces and cities measured on the basis of income per person (China Statistical Yearbook, 1997).
Since the beginning of the seventh five-year plan, the differences between the poorer and richer provinces
have been increasing according to this measure. The project will reduce one of the barriers to these three
poorer provinces by improving their situation relative to richer provinces. The RIPA component will
contribute to a reduction in the income differential between the poorest and less poor counties in these
provinces, as well as contributing to an improvement in the quality of life of their inhabitants. The
beneficiaries of the project would therefore be among the poorest in China, and of the RIPA component, the
poorest of the poor.
The six highways to be improved pass through towns and counties that comprise about half of the
population of the provinces (27% for Inner Mongolia or 6.2 million people, 25% for Gansu or 6.1 million
people and 42% for Ningxia or 2.1 million people). The first year components of the RIPA sub-project will
benefit counties whose population represents about 15% of the total poor population of the three provinces
(1.3 million).
4. Institutional and Implementational Arrangements
Implementation Period: Six years, from November 1998 to November 2004 (Annex 8)
Executing Agency:  The Communications Department in each of the three provinces  has overall
responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Each province has established a "leading group" to
coordinate among the various provincial departments that have a bearing on the preparation and
implementation of the project. The High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (or its equivalent) would
be responsible for the construction of the main highways in each province. The Provincial Highway
Administration Bureau would be responsible for the development and implementation of the RIPA program
as well as the accident black spot pilot program in each province. A leading group for coordination between
the traffic police and the communications department would coordinate the traffic safety component in each
province. Identification and procurement of equipment would be handled by the Communications
Department in each province.
In the three provinces, an institutional strengthening and training office has been set up to coordinate
implementation of the IST component. A steering group, composed of members from the relevant divisions
in each communications department (Labor, Personnel Affairs, Science and Education) will assist the IST
office in its coordination with the other agencies in the Department and in the highway sector generally in
each province. Training programs in the three provinces would be coordinated with those in other Bank-
financed highway projects by the Ministry of Communications (MOC). This arrangement has proven
effective in other provincial projects in China where similar components have been implemented. Each of the
three provinces has established agreed standards and criteria for the selection of personnel to be trained, in
particular, English language proficiency for training outside of China. The provincial departments have also
undertaken to provide annually a monitoring report and to consequently reset the training targets within a
rolling two-year training plan.
The CMC International Tendering Company has been retained by all three provinces as the procurement
agency for all aspects of civil and electrical and mechanical works of the project requiring ICB and for
equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of the main highways in each
province would be carried out by a joint foreign/local supervision team. Upon completion, the NAPA roads
will be maintained by the pertinent branches of the Highway Administration Bureau in each province. Since
none of the three provinces has much high-grade highways, it was agreed that each province would submit to



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 8
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
the Bank at least 6 months prior to the completion of the first main highway a study on operation and
maintenance of these highways and would implement the findings of the study after consultation with the
Bank. These studies would be prepared on the basis of a similar ongoing study in Henan and the planned
studies in Hunan and Hubei provinces.
Each province has established a Project Execution Office and supplied it with adequate staff , offices,
related equipment and operating budget to ensure coordination among the concerned agencies and to affect
smooth preparation and implementation of the project. These offices will be maintained (luring
implementation. Since all three provinces are first-time borrowers in the highway sector from the Bank,
MOC has and will assume a major coordinating role among the three provinces and would provide more than
usual technical support.
On-Lending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $230 million will be made to China on the Bank's
standard terms for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5
year grace period. Proceeds of the loan would be onlent to each of the three provinces ($80 million to Inner
Mongolia, $100 million to Gansu and $50 million to Ningxia) on the same terms and conditions. The
provincial governments would bear the foreign exchange risk.
To facilitate disbursements, three Special Accounts would be opened, with an authorized allocation
of $6.0 million in Inner Mongolia, $7.0 million in Gansu, and $4.0 million in Ningxia, the estimated average
expenditures for a four-month period. The accounts would be opened in US dollars in respective banks
acceptable to the Bank and would be managed by the respective Provincial Finance Bureaus.
Financial Management: Similar to the situation in on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, the
three provinces have the systems and staff to carry out the financial management of the project. All three
provinces have ongoing Bank-financed projects in other sectors and their provincial Finance Bureaus are
familiar with Bank procedures.
Auditing Arrangements: The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing of project expenditures. Actual audits would be carried oult for
SAA by the provincial branch of SAA or the Provincial Audit Administration. Moreover, each provincial
Communications Department will furnish the Bank with the audited accounts and special accounts, including
SOEs, within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In the case of the SOEs, the audit report would
contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support related
withdrawals. The Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions
whose frequency would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average, a mission at about
nine-month intervals would be mounted. Headquarters and resident mission staff would cooperate in this
activity. Supervision of the RIPA component, which involves relatively small works spread over a large
geographic area would be carried out by qualified local experts hired by the Bank. In addition to field
missions, staff input would be required at headquarters and resident mission for project-related activities,
especially procurement. Moreover, the Bank would monitor implementation of all components of the project
through quarterly progress reports. Implementation of the main highways would also be followed-up
through monthly progress reports to be prepared by the joint local/foreign supervision teams. It is estimated
that over the implementation period of the project the total time expended on supervision would be in the
order of 130 person-weeks.
During implementation, project performance, including the achievement of physical targets and
attainment of other objectives, will be monitored by PEOs through the use of annual monitoring reports on
the environment and land acquisition and resettlement, progress reports, and auditing of project accounts.
The first annual monitoring report would be submitted by March 31, 1999 and the last by September 30,
2006. In addition, upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an Implementation Completion Report, to
be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 9
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project: Document number R97-30 (IDA/R97-14); and date of latest
CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 and Progress Report (R98-107) May 28, 1998.
The project supports the CAS objective of alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks and increasing road
capacity. This would be achieved directly by the physical construction of about 687 km of high-grade
highways located in priority corridors in the three provinces. Another main CAS objective in the area of
human development is to help alleviate poverty. The project targets the poor counties in each province and
includes implementation of about 1892 km of rural highways that help provide year-round access to these
counties. These roads were selected from the comprehensive poverty program (eighth 7-year program: 1994-
2000) especially developed for each county.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's strong economic growth has resulted in high growth in transport demand and a shift toward
highway transport. However, China has historically underinvested in transport and its road network ranks
among the sparest in the world relative to geographic area or population and is quite unsafe. Few
expressways exist and about 22 percent of rural communities have no all-weather vehicular access.
Govemments at all levels have therefore embarked on a major highway investment and improvement
program.
At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) for the
exclusive use of motorized vehicles (giving priority to two north-south and two east-west corridors and to
corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade).  The Ministry of Communications has been
developing the NTHS, consisting of 12 interprovincial trunk expressways spanning China and totaling some
35,000 km. The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections of the NTHS.
At the provincial/regional level, the strategy is to concentrate on network maintenance and the expansion and
improvement of provincial and rural road networks, currently totaling about 1.2 million km, to provide
greater mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development, particularly in less-developed regions, such as
the three provinces included under the proposed project.
On the road transport policy agenda, growing attention is being paid to removing administrative
and physical barriers to interprovincial trade and to a redefinition of government's role in transport
in light of rapid administrative decentralization and growing non-state sector involvement. MOC
needs to be strengthened to carry out its reformed mandate in matters such as finance, standards of
planning, design and operation of the NTHS. Provincial and municipal governments are expected
to continue to mobilize most investment resources required (including access to private investment
and capital markets) and to seek greater expenditure and system efficiency through improved
highway planning and investment strategies, as well as to modernize maintenance capacity and
improve cost recovery. Local governments are also expected to further the development of the road
user services and road construction industry through deregulation and promotion of competition,
access to modem technology and better management.
The Bank has prepared a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA - Highway
development and Management Issues, Options and Strategies", which provides recommendations for
action in the foregoing areas which have formed the basis for Bank Group assistance in the sector.
Also, the Bank has prepared a report (No. 15959-CHA, April 23, 1998), "China Forward with One Spirit: A
Strategy for the Transport Sector", which provides recommendations for action in the transport sector
including highways. The Bank and MOC held a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing during May 6-
7, 1997 to discuss the major highway policy areas to be addressed in the Bank's future lending program to
highways. These are: (1) planning of the highway network; (2) highway finance (public and private
sources); (3) maintenance of highways; (4) highway safety; and (5) operation of the highway network with
emphasis on the NTHS. In addition to the Bank and MOC, this seminar was attended by MOF, State
Planning Commission (SPC), China Road Traffic Association (highway safety), selected provinces, the
Asian Development Bank and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF), which are key
financiers of the highway sector in China. Furthermore, the Bank in cooperation with MOF and MOC is
presently addressing the issue of highway finance and the effectiveness of past technical assistance in the
highway sector with a view to assist the govemment and the Bank in establishing a general policy and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 10
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-'E-45788)
strategy framework for the Bank's future lending to the sector.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key issues to be addressed by the project are: (a) expansion of highway capacity (mainly links of
NTHS) to remove bottlenecks and expedite socio-economic growth; (b) increase year-round accessibility to
rural population with emphasis on poor counties; (c) highway safety; (d) highway maintenance; and (e) cost
recovery through imposition of tolls on the users of five major roads included under the project (excludes the
Yanchi-Xingren Highway in Ningxia). For the sustainability of the project, highway maintenance will be
strengthened through the institutional strengthening/training component and the purchase of modem
equipment for highway maintenance in general and for the maintenance and operation of the six main roads
included under the project in particular.
This project centers on the provinces of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia. These are interior land-
locked and poor provinces. China and the Bank agree to give more attention to such areas in order to arrest
the rising inequalities between the prosperous and fast growing coastal and southern areas of China and the
rest of the country.
The provision of the main roads by the private sector was considered and discarded because of the
relatively low traffic volumes on these roads to make them financially attractive to the private sector. Also,
China does not yet have the appropriate legal and business framework for private provision of highways.
However, the Bank through the Fourth National Highway Project (under preparation) is helping China
develop such a framework as well as suitable bid documents for BOT-type of highway projects. Moreover,
the NH4 project will include the construction of a major bridge on the Yangtze River through a BOT
scheme. Experience to be gained from this pilot BOT project would be used in devising future BOT-type
highway projects.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Considering the existing and future socio-economic conditions in the area of influence for each of
the six main roads included under the project, and the volume and composition of traffic in each of the six
corridors as well as the capacity of the existing modes of traffic (rail and road), the proposed roads were
selected as the most economical ways of meeting existing and future needs in each corridor. Similarly, the
options of improving the existing roads versus building new ones on new right-of-way or a combination of
both were thoroughly investigated in the feasibility study for each of the six main roads. The selected
alternatives for Yanchi-Xingren Highway in Ningxia involved mostly upgrading and strengthening the
existing road and constructing a 3.7 km bypass around Hui'anbu Township. But, in the case of the Guyaozi-
Wangquanliang Highway, a new alignment was selected because it results in the lowest total transport cost
(construction + operation + maintenance) and less resettlement of affected people.
Several reasonable alignments were studied and compared for a given road. In the case of Liugouhe -
Zhonghe Expressway in Gansu alignments on both sides of the Yellow River were considered and the
selected alignment considered total transport cost, environmental and resettlement factors, and involved
extensive consultation with the city of Lanzhou in order to ensure proper coordination between the proposed
highway and the land use and development plans for the city. Moreover, alternatives were developed and
compared and "the best" was incorporated in the selected solutions for major components or difficult
sections of the roads., such as major bridges, interchanges and sections tranversing sand dune areas. For
example, in the case of the main bridge (south of Baotou) on the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner
Mongolia, 3 different alternative locations were studied and different designs involving varying numibers
and widths of spans were considered at the selected location before the final solution was arrived at.
Further, the appropriate technical standard for each of these roads as well as stage construction
schemes were evaluated in the feasibility studies and subjected to extensive review by Bank missions during
project preparation. For example, in the case of the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway ( GWH) in Ningxia,
three design standards were subjected to extensive studies and comparisons. These were Class 2 Auto-Dnly
Highway (2-lanes), Class I Highway (4 lanes with access control), and Class I subgrade (4 lanes) with a
pavement for two-lanes only. The alternative selected was the last one and was based on a comparison of
technical factors including capacity, ease of expansion in the future, problems with acquiring additional
right-of-way in the future, safety, economic and financial rates of return, and ability to repay the Bank loan,
especially in the first few years after opening the road to traffic. Also, since this highway forms a part of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 11
Country: China                                                  Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
NTHS, consideration was given to the design standards of this NTH on both sides of GWH. The optimum
time for upgrading each altemative to a 4-lane Class 1 Highway was carefully studied and determined and
properly included in the economic and financial analyses.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector issue                                            Project
*  Remove Highway Capacity Bottlenecks (1)*              Bank-financed:
*  Institutional Strengthening/Training (2)               Highway Project (completed) 1,2*
*  Rural Roads and Poverty Alleviation (3)                Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (completed) 1-6
*  Highway Safety (4)                                     Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1,2, 6
*  Operation and Maintenance of High-Grade Highways (5)   Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6
*  Cost Recovery (6)                                      Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1,2, 6
Shandong Provincial Highway (completed) 1,2,4, 6
Jiangsu Provincial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6
Zhejiang Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6
Guangdong Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6
Henan Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6
Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1,2, 6
National Highway: Hebei/Henan (ongoing) 1,2,5, 6
Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1,2,4, 6
Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (ongoing) 1,2,4, 6
Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-5, 6
Second Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1,2, 6
Second Nat'l Hwy: Guangdong/Hunan (ongoing) 1,2, 6
Third Nat'l Hwy: Hubei 1,2,5, 6
Other development agencies
Asian DeveloDment Bank
Shenyang-Benxi Highway (completed)
Hunan Expressway (completed)
Julin Expressway(completed)
Heilongjiang Expressway (ongoing)
Yunan Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei and Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Chongqing Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressways (ongoing)
Jiangxi Highway Project (ongoing)
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze
River Highway Bridge Construction
Second Chongqing Yangtze River Bridge Construction
Qiqihar Nenjiang River Highway Bridge Construction
*The numbers correspond to the sector issues in first column of this tabulation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 12
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PIE-45788)
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the preparation and implementation of 19
highway projects in China, only seven of which have been completed. While the overall performance of
highway projects is by and large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken
into consideration in the proposed project's design. The problems include: quality of construction; late start
of the design of traffic engineering facilities (traffic monitoring, telecommunications, tolling and lighting)
which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated extension of the closing date of Bank's loans,
and the need for improved highway management and operation, especially in the context of tollinig of
expressways. The designs and bid documents for the main roads in the project, will be reviewed by
international design engineers. The construction will be supervised by a joint foreign/local team wh'ich is
properly staffed and equipped.
There is also a growing concern that adequate funding for highway maintenance is not now being
generated to cover an expanding and more expensive highway system. Previously, this was not an issue -
adequate funds were being set aside for this purpose. The Bank missions had discussions with the three
provinces on the highway maintenance issue and the sources and uses of funds in their 9FYP for highways.
Agreement will be reached on a program to monitor physical maintenance activities based on the existing
condition of the highway network and realistic annual targets for their future conditions.
Experience with rural highways in Africa and South Asia and with the Bank's Second Shaanxi and
Second Henan Highway Projects in China has shown that provision of basic access through all-weather roads
and provision of non-motorized means of transport are contributing factors to reducing poverty in rural areas,
especially when combined with programs for socioeconomic development. Inner Mongolia, Gansu and
Ningxia, similar to the rest of China, have a good record in this regard. The proposed project contains a
RIPA component which focuses on the lower level roads in the poorest counties in these provinces. The
formulation of this component as well as arrangements for its implementation took into consideration
experience with the RIPA component in the Second Shaanxi and Second Henan Provincial Highway Projects
and with the "Road Improvement Program" in the Bank-financed highway projects in Zhejiang, Guangdong
and Henan provinces in China.
Limited experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to the difficulty of their
implementation due to insufficient coordination between the Traffic Police and the Highway Departments.
This issue reflects a general difficulty with inter-departmental coordination in China. A coordination
mechanism has been agreed to in all three provinces.
Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has generally been satisfactory. However, the
Bank must make its requirements well known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in the preparation of
the project. Also, the Legal Department should be brought on board early in the project preparation. A Bank
resettlement specialist and a social scientist (consultant) were involved from the beginning in project
preparation. The resettlement action plans for the proposed project were reviewed by the Legal Department
before appraisal of the project. Experience in the environmental area in China has generally been favorable.
However, more attention should be paid to environmental supervision during construction and to training of
personnel. The proposed project will provide an adequate institutional setup and training for such
environmental supervision.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is strong support for the project from the various levels of Government. SPC, MOF, MOC and
the provincial governments strongly support the project. Also, the local governments the task team met with
in the affected areas expressed tremendous support and emphasized the need for the project.  The
Communications Department in each of the three provinces shows a strong sense of ownership of the project.
They have completed the feasibility studies and environmental analyses of the main roads and substantially
completed their resettlement action plans and preliminary engineering designs. The first year package of RIPA
roads has been fully prepared and is ready for implementation. The IST and equipment needs are well defined
and their procurement arrangements have been agreed with the Bank. The prequalification for civil
contractors for the main highways was advertised in March and April, 1998. Each province has established a
project execution office and provided it with necessary qualified staff including translators as well as the
required offices and are functioning very well.
The provinces as well as MOC, MOF and SPC urged the Bank to advance this project from FY99 to FY98.
This was accomplished. The area where support seemed to be weak relates to traffic safety due primarily to
the low level of awareness of the problem, and coordination between the traffic police and the highway



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 13
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
authorities needs to be improved.
12. Value added of Bank support:
The involvement of the Bank results in much needed additional financial resources to help remove
highway bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in high priority corridors in each of the three provinces as
well as improve all-weather access especially to poor counties.  Bank involvement will accelerate
institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design, supervision, construction, operation
and maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected to benefit the design and the quality of construction of
the roads to be undertaken (this has been problematic in some other projects). Furthermore, the Bank will
help the provincial communications departments to improve maintenance of the highway network through
introduction of modem maintenance equipment, training of staff and allocation of adequate funds. In
addition, it will raise the awareness of the highway safety problem and make modest improvements in this
regard. Similarly, Bank involvement will improve the provincial practices in the analyses and
implementation of environmental, land acquisition and resettlement, and participatory aspects of projects.
This project will also help increase attention to the needs of communities, including minorities along the
highways and sharpen the skills needed to carry out the required analyses. Although the Bank loan will not
be used to finance RIPA, Bank involvement in this component helped improve the institutional capability of
each of the three provinces in the planning, selection, and evaluation of RIPA roads. Also, Bank
involvement is expected to improve the engineering design, quality of construction and maintenance of
these roads.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 15)
13. Economic    [XI  Cost-Benefit Analysis X: ERR =    [ ]    Cost Effectiveness []   Other
(see Annex 9):         23.3 %, ENPV = US547.7 million        Analysis:              [Specify]
The principal measured benefits of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs and time
savings to vehicle occupants. The estimated overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is
23.3% and the economic net present value (ENPV) is estimated at U$ 547.7 million. The ERRs for
each of the six main highways range from a low of 15.2% (Guyaozi to Wangquanliang) to a high of
42.5% (Yanchi to Xingren). The estimated ERR and ENPV of the first-year RIPA components of the
project are 15.9% and U$9.3 million respectively. An analysis of the evaluation results and a
description of the method used to derive them are provided in Annex 9.
Summary of Economic Evaluation results
Province           Highway         Best estimate        ERR range              ENPV
ERR %                 %               (U$ million)
Inner Mongolia    Baotou to Dongsheng      32.6%          22.8% to 37.6%            272.2
Baiyinchagan to       20.5%          15.0% to 27.6%             26.3
Fengzhen
Gansu             Xujiamo to Jiepaicun     21.1%           16.2% to 23.5%           126.2
Liugouhe to Zhonghe     17.0%           12.8% to 19.8%             55.9
Ningxia             Yanchi to Xingren      42.5%          25.2% to 48.5%             29.5
Guyaozi to          15.2%          10.9% to 16.5%             28.4
Wangquangliang
RIPA component   First year sub-projects   15.9%           12.3% to 22.4%             9.3
Total                            23.3%           18.8% to 27.0%            547.7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 14
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
14. Financial (see Annex 9)
Each of the three provinces is expected to be able to cover maintenance and operating costs as well as the
loan amortization charges from the expected toll revenues and with the exception of Ningxia, this will be
possible from the first year of operation of the highways. Although the Guyaozi to Wangquangliang
Highway in Ningxia will generate enough toll revenue over the loan period, with a standard amortization
schedule there will be deficits in the early years of operation (up to the year 2007). This situation can be met
by transferring revenue from other user charges or revising the repayment schedule. The expected financial
net present value of excess revenues, once all maintenance, operating and loan repayments have been met, is
positive for each province and equivalent to U$ 56.0 million overall. Revenue from existing user charges is
expected to be sufficient to cover counterpart financing requirements during the construction period.
15. Technical:
The main roads and RIPA roads included under the project were designed by reputable Chinese
design institutes according to the latest MOC standards. These preliminary designs as well as the bid
documents were reviewed by international consultants assisted by highly qualified Chinese Engineers, and
found satisfactory. The final bid documents will be reviewed by the same consultants during June/July 1998.
The constructability of the designs was confirmed by these experts. The technologies involved are proven
and well mastered by Chinese contractors.
Because of the relativity low traffic volumes on the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway, the
appropriate technical standard and stage construction were studied at great length. The recommended
standards were verified by Bank experts and the above-mentioned international experts. Also, the design of
the Yellow River bridge south of Baotou (on the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner Mongolia) was
subjected to extensive analyses before the final design was selected (Section 8 of this PAD).
The cost estimate of the project reflects February 1998 prices and is based on the latest available
engineering studies and prevailing unit rates for civil works, recent: costs of foreign experts from other
highway projects in China and recent price quotations for equipment. The cost estimate includes physical
and price contingencies. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of civil works
and construction supervision. Price contingencies are calculated for foreign costs, using international annual
escalation factors of 1.85 percent during 1998-2004. Price contingencies for local costs are based on local
annual escalation of 5.8% in 1998, and 5.5 percent during 1999-2004.
16. Institutional:
The Provincial Communications Department in each of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia is capable of
successfully implementing the project. As explained in section 4 of Block I of this PAD (institutional and
implementational arrangements), each province has set up a project execution office (PEO) to coordinate and
manage the preparation and implementation of the project. MOC has provided adequate coordination among
the three provinces and provided more than usual technical support. Each province made excellent use of
advisers/experts from completed or ongoing Bank-financed highway projects which resulted in better design
and smoother preparation of the project.
The PEO in Inner Mongolia was established in December 1997 and currently has a staff of about 15.
The PEO in Gansu was setup in May 1997 and presently has a staff of about 12 people. In Ningxia, the PEO
was established in April 1997 and has a staff of about 5. The structure of these PEOs and their organizational
relationship to the other units/institutions in the communications sectors of the provinces are available in the
IST report prepared by each province, which are in turn available in the project files. As each office has been
recently established, they are the object of institutional strengthening and training efforts, including
equipment to enable them to operate effectively during the course of the project.
An adequate coordination mechanism between the Traffic Police and the Communications
Department in each province is being established. However, there is great concern, regarding the strength of
the provincial commitment to ensure that effective coordination will actually be accomplished.
The PIP prepared by each of the three provinces has been received and reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory. The agreed procurement and disbursement arrangements are presented in Annex 10.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 15
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
17. Social:
a. Socio-economic surveys
Socio-economic surveys were conducted in November 1997 to assess the impact of the main
highways on the communities along their alignment, with emphasis on those containing significant minority
populations. These were carried out by a Chinese consulting firm assisted by an international
anthropological consultant (both approved by the Bank) in accordance with terms of references agreed with
the Bank. The surveys were restricted to 3 villages (mainly Hui minority) along the Yanchi-Xingren
Highway in Ningxia, 2 villages along the Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway (Tibetan and Hui minorities) in
Gansu, and 15 villages (Han majority with Mongol minority) along the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway in
Inner Mongolia. The surveys utilized focus groups, household case studies, individual interviews, and
questionnaires in collecting the data (Annex 11). The accuracy of the data was confirmed by a social
scientist of the Bank Resident Mission in Beijing by reviewing the original data.
The final report for these surveys was received in March 1998 and was found satisfactory. The
report emphasized the many benefits the highways would bring to the communities within their areas of
influence and stressed the support given by the local inhabitants to the road projects. The main negative
impacts relate to problems associated with culvert design, traffic safety, and riverbank erosion threatening
Muslim grave-sites.
These will be addressed through design modifications and by implementing focused traffic safety education
with emphasis on school children. It should be pointed out that the alignment of the highways was selected
to be close to but also avoid going through villages to minimize land acquisition and resettlement. To
maintain social cohesion of the villages, and allow passage of people, animals, vehicles, and goods from one
side to another, the design of the highways provides for a large number of underpasses and culverts.
Other areas of concern include the need for adequate and timely compensation for land and property
and related resettlement, using villagers and their local resources in road construction, and enhanced access
to training opportunities and credit to fully benefit form road development. Resettlement concerns would be
addressed through the preparation of detailed resettlement actions plans for each highway. To address the
training needs, the villages can use a portion of the compensation for resettlement (resettlement subsidy)
towards provision of training. Since the need for credit exists even without the proposed highways and
affects both the Han majority and the minorities, the Communications Department in each of the three
provinces did not think they should finance such credit from their limited financial resources. However, the
Bank has recommended to the concerned governments at all levels to provide adequate credit to promote the
socio-economic development of these areas.
b. Resettlement Issues
The project requires land acquisition and resettlement for the main highways and the roads under the
RIPA component. Construction of new highways, interchanges, service areas, buildings for management
and maintenance, and link roads would require land acquisition and cause displacement of affected people.
Highways that require upgrading or rehabilitation would need a relatively smaller amount of land acquisition
and in rare cases, resettlement of affected persons.
Efforts were made throughout the design stage of the project to minimize land acquisition and
resettlement impacts. Apart from involving various agencies of the Provincial Communications Department
in this exercise, local governments and people's representatives were involved in this process. Significant
reduction in the amount of relocation required was achieved by modifying the alignment of the highways.
As a result of these efforts, the amount of relocation of affected persons is quite low compared to the scale of
the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 16
Country: China                                            Project Title: Trl-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Land acquisition and resettlement impacts were systematically identified through detailed census
and socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and assets in all three provinces. Resettlement Action
Plan (RAPs) in accordance with Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 have been prepared and found
satisfactory. The RAPs aim to compensate affected persons for lost structures and crops, address the issue
of economic rehabilitation primarily through land redistribution (except Gansu), and provide alternative land
for constructing new houses. Due to overall shortage of cultivable land in the project area in Gansu
province, a combination of innovative economic rehabilitation measures were devised. These include
treating affected land as equity in formation of township enterprises, or depositing compensation amounts
into interest bearing deposits held by the affected households (Annex 12). Affected enterprises will be
compensated for loss of assets and for loss of incomes during transition and will also be provided alternative
land where relocation is necessary. A summary of project impacts related to land acquisition and
resettlement is given below:
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Impacts of the Highways Component
Province                   Land               Affected Households/              Affecled
Acquisition (mu)             Persons                    Enterprises/
Workers
Inner Mongolia              12,499                   297/8657                      23/471
Gansu                       11,350                   241/4134                       8/0
Ningxia                      8,704                   142/2219                      13/398
Institutional Arrangements for RAP implementation have been established by the respec tive
provinces. While the Project Execution Offices Prepared the RAPs in collaboration with the respeciLive
county governments and the project will provide the funding for resettlement, actual implementation will, be
carried out by the local governments. Project specific resettlement offices at the county and township level
will be established prior to start of resettlement implementation. These offices will liaise with responsible
local agencies for resettlement implementation.  The RAPs provide for both internal and, external
monitoring. Indicators for monitoring have been developed and presented in the RAPs. While internal
monitoring will focus on the quantitative aspects of resettlement implementation, external monitoring wvill
evaluate its qualitative aspects. Internal and external monitoring reports would be submitted to the Bank
every six months until the implementation of resettlement is satisfactorily completed.
Other arrangements for implementation have been adequately planned. Precise implementation
schedules, well-coordinated with the civil construction, have been prepared, and the RAPs are proposed to
be funded exclusively out of counterpart funds. The cost estimates include adequate allocation for
contingencies, both price related and physical.
The RAPs were prepared based on consultations with affected persons and their representatives.
Drafts were discussed with local governments at the county and township level. Village level leaders were
involved in devleoping economic rehabilitation strategies for each township, summarized in the RAPs.
The RAPs also include provisions for informing all affected persons of their entitlements under the
resettlement policy and ensuring their continued participation in implementation.
The RIPA component has also been prepared in accordance with Bank Guidelines on resettlement.
The policy framework described in the RAPs for the highways component in each of the provinces would
also apply to the roads to be constructed under the RIPA component. It was agreed that in cases where less
than 200 persons are affected in any county in one year, only an inventory of resettlement impacts would
need to be prepared and there would be no need to prepare detailed RAPs. However, if more than 200
persons are affected, complete RAPs would need to be submitted to the Bank. In the first year package of
RIPA, there are 13 systems in Inner Mongolia, 4 in Ningxia, and 6 in Gansu. 6368 mu of land would need to
be permanently acquired, 941 mu will be temporarily acquired. 1180 persons will be directly affected by the
land acquisition and relocaiion due to construction of RIPA roads.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 17
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
18. Environmental:  Environmental Category                          [X] A    [ ] B    [ ] C
The environmental assessments (EA) have been carried out for six main highway components of the
project. During the preparation and evaluation of EA, the national procedures, including the Circular on
Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by
International Financial Organizations (June 1993), and the Bank requirements were thoroughly followed.
The EA documents such as Environmental Impact Assessment Reports (EIAs), Environmental Action Plans
(EAPs) and Executive Summary (ES) have been prepared, incorporating the Bank comments on earlier
drafts, and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. The ES was distributed to the Board on March 6, 1998.
With respect to the RIPA component, it was agreed that a Sectoral Environmental Assessment
approach would be applied. The Initial Environmental Evaluation Reports (IEE) and EAPs were submitted to
the Bank during December 1997-January 1998. Those documents were reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory.
The major findings and discussions in these documents are summarized below. More detailed
information on the EA of main highways as well as RIPA components in the three provinces is attached as
Annex 13 to this document.
A. Main Highways
Potential Impacts. Major potential environmental impacts include noise and air pollution during
the construction and operation phases (all main highways), soil erosion during the construction phase (all
highways), impacts on vegetation (all main highways, in particular, those in Inner Mongolia), impacts on
cultural property (Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway in Ningxia) and transportation of construction
materials (all highways).
Mitigation Measures. The EAPs specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements to implement the EAPs, training and equipment requirements,
and the cost estimate of implementation of EAPs. Major mitigation measures include adequate selection of
alignment, watering to prevent dust during the construction phase, and noise protection measures including
construction of noise barriers. An additional survey was carried out by Ningxia with participation of experts
of cultural property to assess the significance of and potential impacts on cultural property (Great Wall). The
survey confirmed that the concerned section of the Great Wall has been greatly damaged and is not under
protection. Mitigation measures identified through the survey were integrated in EAP and found satisfactory
to the Bank.
The engineering design and technical specifications for the above highways will incorporate
appropriate measures required to be taken for environmental protection. It was ascertained that the proposed
highways would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and that their construction and operation should have
no adverse impacts on the environment through the implementation of EAPs. The Communications
Department in each of the three provinces would furnish to the Bank by February 28 of each year starting in
2000 and ending in 2007 an annual environmental monitoring report for the previous calendar year.
Public Consultation and Feedback. During the EA works in the three provinces, the local people
were intensively consulted. The following approaches were adopted for public consultation under this
project were: (i) Workshop with participation of experts and governmental officials; (ii) Consultation
meetings with local governments/representatives; and (iii) Questionnaire analysis of public opinion
supplemented by interviews. These environmental documents were made public locally at the Provincial
Communications Department in each province.
Major feedback other than those relating to resettlement issues includes: (i) noise pollution during
the construction and operation phases should be minimized (XJH and LZH in Gansu, and YXH in Ningxia);
(ii) during the construction phase, necessary mitigation measures such as dust and noise pollution control
should be implemented (BDH and BFH in Inner Mongolia); (iii) afforestation work should be timely
undertaken (BDH and BFH in Inner Mongolia, and LZH in Gansu); and (iv) passages should be constructed
so as to minimize impacts of community separation (GWH in Ningxia). Those points were reflected in
selection of road alignment, design of the highways, and/or EAP as appropriate.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 18
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
B. RIPA Components
No new construction will be included in RIPA components in Gansu and Ningxia. In Inner
Mongolia, three of the thirteen RIPA sub-projects include new road construction components. Since the
current environmental conditions are good in quality, the construction works are small in size and the future
traffic volumes are relatively small, no significant potential impacts are envisaged. Appropriate mitigation
measures have been integrated in EAPs and found satisfactory to the Bank.
19. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and other Affected Groups
The primary beneficiaries of the project are the users of the main highways in all three of the
provinces as well as the poor counties where the RIPA roads will be built/improved. However, the
project will benefit many highway users in China since the main roads form important links of the
national highway system and would thus facilitate long distance travel, especially in an east-west
direction. Other beneficiaries could include the Communications Departments and their units
through the institutional strengthening and training contained in the project and provision of modern
equipment.
b. Other Key Stakeholders: Villages, counties, local governments, businesses and persons affected by
the projects.
The affected communities were involved in the formulation and comparison of alternative alignments
as well as the selection of the final alignments and number, location and technical standards of interchanges,
underpasses and grade separations. Problem locations involved several consultations.
During the EIA preparation, the local people were intensively consulted through workshops, meetings
with local government representatives and public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews. The
feedback was reflected in the selection of road alignments, design of highways and preparation of
environmental action plans as appropriate. Moreover, the environmental documents for the main highways
were made public locally in each province (section 18 of Block 3 of the PAD).
Special attention was given to the consultations with affected persons and their representatives during
the preparation of the resettlement action plans. Implementation of the resettlement program is proposed to be
a highly participatory exercise. A resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements of each
household, main contents of the RAPs, compensation and entitlement policies and grievance procedures
would be distributed to the affected people prior to resettlement implementation. Both internal and external
(by independent monitors) monitoring of the resettlement program would be conducted (section 17 b of Block
3 of the PAD).
Extensive field socio-economic surveys of select communities, that contain significant minorities,
along three of the main highways were conducted to assess the social impact of these highways. T'hese
surveys included focus groups, household case studies, individual interviews, questionnaires and clirect
observations. The findings of these surveys were utilized in improving the design of the highways and in
impressing on the local governments the desirability to provide credit facilities for development of highway
businesses and training for the affected people (section 17 (a) of Block 3 of the PAD).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 19
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
20. Sustainability:
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China shows a great
commitment for implementation of the physical components of the project, which account for the majority of
the project cost. Generally, the counterpart funds are available on time, but lately some of the provinces have
become overextended and in some cases some delays occurred in the availability of these funds which had a
slight adverse effect on timely implementation of the project. As explained under the financial issues of this
section, the level of tolls and the need to review it periodically is important for the financial and economic
viability of the project and the ability to repay the Bank loan as well as to provide timely and needed
maintenance. The price bureaus in the provinces with Bank-financed highway projects have traditionally
increased the tolls to repay the Bank loan. Traffic volumes on the main highways included in the project are
expected to continue to grow and to provide adequate revenues, to ensure adequate maintenance and
operation of these highways. The proposed project includes modem equipment for this purpose as well as
training of staff.
In the case of RIPA roads, the main factor affecting sustainability is expected to be the timely
maintenance of those roads which is in turn a function of the available budgets and other resources. Because
of the relatively low level of technology used (primarily labor-based) and the Chinese experience with such
methods as well as history of involvement of the local people in the maintenance of such roads, the risk of
little or no maintenance is relatively moderate.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 20
Country: China                                                              Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
21. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in Annex 1):
Risk                           Risk Rating                   Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives:
(Annex 1, cell "from outputs to objects")
* Government at central, provincial and local levels are not  Low    Effective dialogue with the central and provincial governments.
committed to project.
* Traffic grows at lower than expected rates on toll roads  Medium    (a) critical review of feasibility studies and selection of proper
and toll roads attract less than expected traffic volumes from           technical standards and stage construction.
existing parallel roads could result in underutilization of toll     (b) proper setting of the levels of toll rates
roads, difficulty in repaying Bank loan, less economic
benefits, and more traffic accidents.
*Price control committees delay or do not approve proposed  Moderate    (a) Tolls will be set in accordance with a proper study to be
toll rates which could impact the ability to repay the Bank              reviewed by the Bank.
loan.                                                                (b) Dialogue with the provincial governments.
*Political pressures interfere with implementation plans and  Moderate    (a) Dialogue with provincial govemment and MOC.
thus adversely affect quality of construction.                        (b) Prequalification of Contractors is properly done and "best"
contractors are selected.
(c) Adequate supervision arrangements are made
(d) Monitor implementation through progress reports, monitoring
reports and supervision missions.
* Traffic Police and Communications departments are not  Substantial   (a) Appropriate coordination measures between traffic police and
enthusiastic about cooperative efforts; which could lead to              communications department have been established.
ineffectiveness of safety component and less than expected           (b) Dialogue with provincial govemments.
reductions in traffic accidents.                                     (c) Actively involve MOC in monitoring the highway safety
component.
eTrained staff do not apply acquired skills in work place  Moderate    (a) Well designed and implementable training program.
which could lead to ineffective strengthening of institutions        (b) Submittal of two-year rolling training programs.
and training.                                                        (c) Criteria for selection of trainees are logical and implemented in
practice.
(d) English language training is given to trainees before training
abroad.
(e) Reports on effectiveness of training after training is completed
are prepared and submitted.
(f) Provide trainees with opportunity to apply acquired skills and
tie promotions/salary increases to effective training.
Project components to outputs:
Annex 1, cell "from components to outputs"
* Unfamiliarity with the Bank procedures could delay    Moderate    (a) MOC and Bank (headquarters and RMC) will follow-up
implementation.                                                          project closely and provide timely advice and support.
(b) Bank provided on December 8-10, 1997 training on
procurement and disbursement.
(c) Project launch workshop will be held after board approval and
before start-up of implementation.
* Counterpart funds not available in sufficient quantity or  Low     (a) Ensure sufficient financial resources are available through
on time                                                                  analysis of highway revenues and expenditures.
(b) Dialogue with the provincial govemment and MOC
*Delays in timely approvals of procurement activities could  Low     (a) Agreement with PCDs on detailed procurement arrangements.
lead to delay in completion of the project on time, especially       (b) Training of pertinent provincial personnel by Bank and central
the tolling, telecommunications and monitoring systems.                  govemment in the areas of procurement and disbursement.
(c) Use of experienced procurement agencies.
(d) Use of intemational consultants to review design and bid
documents.
*Interference of local people in acquisition of land could  Moderate    (a) Preparation of an executable RAP with assistance from
lead to delays in implementation and resettlement cost                   specialists who have worked on Bank-financed projects.
overrun.                                                             (b) Implement most of the RAP before start-up of construction.
(c) Increase consultation with local communities, especially
regarding number, size and location of underpasses, and
culverts, temporary use of roads by contractors; borrow areas,
crushers.
(d) Provide adequate contingencies for land acquisition and
resettlement costs.
*Major archeological finds during construction could delay  Low      (a) Full consultation with archeological authorities in each
information and increase cost of the project.                            province during selection of alignments and design of
highways.
Overall project risk rating                             Moderate



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 21
Country: China                                         Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
During preparation of the project, the conduct of socio-economic surveys for communities
affected by the project, with emphasis on minorities, faced many obstacles and was a main reason for the
delay in preparation of this project. However, since this issue is a country issue in addition to being project-
specific, it is recommended that it be addressed at the country level. This would reduce delays in project
preparation as well as the time and effort required, and above all reduce the tensions between the Bank task
teams and the pertinent provincial and central authorities in China.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Agreements Reached with the Government:
The Borrower (Ministry of Finance) will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the
Beneficiary (Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, Gansu Province, and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region)
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to the Borrower and that the Beneficiary bears the
foreign exchange risk.
24. Agreements Reached with the Beneficiary:
Maintenance of Hi2hwav Network
(a) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by April 30
of each year from 1999 until 2006 an annual highway maintenance report, which shall: (a) indicate the
length and condition of each class of road; (b) establish realistic targets for the following year, including an
estimate of the required physical works by class thereof and the costs thereof; and (c) measure the results
and the actual expenditures of the past year against the targets and budgeted funds therefor.
Environment, Land Ac unisition and Resettlement
(a) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall carry out each main highway EAP and RAP i.n a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its prior
approval.
(b) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall, prior to commencing construction on a RIPA Sub-project:
(i) carry out any necessary resettlement in accordance with a resettlement action plan approved by the
Bank, which shall have been designed on the basis of policies, planning principles, institutional
arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Bank an environmental
action plan satisfactory to the Bank, prepared in accordance with basic policies, planning principles
and institutional arrangements acceptable to the Bank and, thereafter, carry out such environmental
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) For any RIPA Sub-project which involves new road construction, or substantial widening, or land
acquisition, or special areas such as national parks, natural reserves and areas of significant cultural
heritage, Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall furnish to the Bank an environmental impact
assessment satisfactory to the Bank in addition to the environmental action plan referred to above.
(d) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank: (i) an annual environmental monitoring report for the previous year starting
February 28, 2000 and ending 2007; and (ii) within two months of each December 31 and June 30
starting December 31, 1998 and until completion of all land acquisition and resettlement under the
project, internal resettlement monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies in each of three
provinces and within four months of each December 31 and June 30 starting December 31, 1998 and
until completion of all land acquisition and resettlement under the project, external resettlement
monitoring reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank, regarding the
implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the previous six month period ending
on said December 31 or June 30.
Main Highwavs
(a) Gansu Province shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the design and construction of the 1.8 kmn
extension to the south of the Tianshuilu linking road to the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway to connect
with the existing street network of the city of Lanzhou is carried out in a fashion satisfactory to the
Bank and completed no later than November 1, 2002, simultaneously with completion of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 22
Country: China                                         Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
construction of the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway.
(b) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by the
dates set out below, an analysis and recommendation for the structure of toll rates:
(i) By February 1, 2001 for the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway in Ningxia and the Baiyinchagan-
Fengzhen Highway in Inner Mongolia
(ii) By February 1, 2002 for the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner Mongolia and the Liugoahe-
Zhonghe Expressway and Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway in Gansu.
(c) Each of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall:
(i) By February 1, 2001 in the case of Inner Mongolia and Ningxia and by February 1, 2002 in the
case of Gansu, complete, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and taking
account of the results of studies on highway operation and maintenance conducted under other
Bank-financed highway projects in China and of experience in Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia
and other parts of China, a study on the operation and maintenance of high-grade highways and
furnish said study to the Bank for review; and
(ii) Thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, taking into
consideration the comments thereon of the Bank.
RIPA
(a) Each of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its
approval, by June 30 of each year starting in 1999, an annual work plan and budget for the
RIPA sub-projects proposed to be implemented during the following year, such annual vwork
plan to include, inter alia, (a) all RIPA Sub-projects proposed for the year; (b) an economic
and social benefit analysis using indicators acceptable to the Bank; (c) an implementation and
supervision schedule; (d) a maintenance plan; and (e) the resettlement action plans and the
environmental plan, and, as the case may be, the environmental impact assessment required in
respect of each proposed RIPA Sub-project, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
Institutional Strengthening and Training
(a) Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall by May 31 of each year commencing in 1999,
furnish the rolling two-year training implementation schedule to the Bank and shall carry out
the training under a program acceptable to the Bank.
Reporting, Monitorine and Auditing
Each of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank
and submit to the Bank:
(a) a monthly report of the progress of the works on the main highways included under the project;
(b) a quarterly report of the progress of implementation of all components of the project;
(c) by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 and ending in 2006, an annual monitoring report in a
form satisfactory to the Bank covering all components of the Project and assessing the extent to which
various implementation and development objectives have been satisfied in the course of Project
execution and operation.
(d) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an implementation completion
report in a format acceptable to the Bank;
(e) the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
25. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The preliminary designs are ready but the final designs for the first year activities are expected to be
ready by July 31, 1998.
[X]  The procurement documents for the first year's activities are expected to be ready by July 31, 1998
for most items.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 23
Country: China                                                   Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
[X] The Project Implementation Plan from each of the three provinces was received by the Bank and
found satisfactory.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
(a)     Task Team Leader: Hatim Hajj, Principal Transport Specialist
(b)     Sect  Manager: Jeffrey S. Gutman



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 24
Country: China                                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PEE-45788)
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
Risks
CAS Objective              Gross output value of          County and Provincial annual  (CAS Objective to Bank
Increased economic activity    Agriculture and Industry   economic reports/statistics  Mission)
along selected high-priority   (GOVAI) in affected counties
highway corridors and      (See Annex I (a), I (b) and I (c))
targeted poor counties in
each of Inner Mongolia,
Gansu and Ningxia.
Project Development        (See Annex 1(a), I(b) and 1(c))
Objectives                 *Average Daily Traffic (ADT) on
*Increase efficiency and   proposed and existing highways   *Traffic counts reports from  *Other county poverty
safety of traffic along select   in selected high-priority  communications departments   alleviation projects are
high priority highways in  corridors.                     and branches.                successful in achieving
each of the three provinces.   *Average speeds on proposed  *Reports on traffic speeds  their desired impact.
*Provide improved access to   and existing highways       along main highways.         *Maintenance of roads is
targeted poor counties in  *Traffic accident rates on     *Traffic accident reports from   successfully carried out by
each of the three provinces.    proposed and existing highways   Traffic Police, Public Security  the Communications
*ADT on roads included in RIPA   Bureau.                   Departments and their
program.                      *Reports from weather        branches.
*Number of days/year the roads   bureaus and county-level  *Political structure
in RIPA program are closed to  Highway Administration      continues to support cost-
traffic.                      Bureaus.                     recovery on main
*Bank loan to each province is    'Annual Reports of operation   highways.
recovered through tolls on main   of main highways.        *No unexpected natural
highways.                                                  disasters occur (floods,
earthquakes)
Project Outputs            (See Annex 1(a), I(b) and 1(c))                             (Outputs to Developmient
1. Main highways expanded    1.1 687 km of high-grade     1.1.1 Monthly progress reports  Objectives)
and improved.              highways (245 km in Inner      by supervision teams.        1. Government at Central,
Mongolia (IM), 97 km in Gansu   1.1.2 Quarterly progress   Provincial, and local levels
and 345 km in Ningxia)        reports and annual monitoring  remains committed to
constructed and/or improved to   reports.                  project.
MOC standards by 2003. See     1.1.3 Reports by Bank's     2. Traffic grows at
Annex 2.                      supervision missions.        expected rates on Toll
1.1.4 Disbursements to      Roads.
contractors.                3. Toll roads attract
expected traffic volumes
2. Rural Roads (RIPA)      2.1 1,892 km of rural roads in  2.1.1 Quarterly progress   from existing parallel
upgraded and expanded.     selected poor counties         reports and annual monitoring  roads.
constructed and upgraded in   reports.                     4. Price control
accordance with approved      2.1.2 Reports by Bank's      committees approve
standards by 2000 (836km in IM,  supervision missions.     proposed toll rates.
803km in Gansu, and 253 km in                              propose toll ats
Ningxia). See Annex 3.                                     5. Traffic Polce and
Communications
Departments are
enthusiastic about
cooperative efforts.
6. Political pressures do
not interfere with
implementation plans and
thus adversely affect
I_quality of constructior[.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 25
Country: China                                                   Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
and Risks
3. Provincial Communications  3.1 1998 persons for 2129  3. 1.1 Reports for rolling, two-   7. Trained staff
Department staff trained.    person/months (pm) from the  year training programs        apply acquired skills
Communications Department  3.1.2 Project quarterly progress  in the work place.
and their institutes would be   reports and annual monitoring
trained within China and    reports.
abroad by 2003 (418 persons  3.1.3 Procurement reviews and
in IM for 622p/m, 450       disbursements by Bank.
persons in Gansu for 537    3.1.4 Reports by Bank's
p/m, and 1130 persons in    supervision missions.
Ningxia for 970 p/m). See
Annex 4.
4. Equipment and spare parts
provided for operation and   4.1 Equipment and spare      4.1.1 Quarterly progress
maintenance of highways,     parts delivered by 2002      reports.
quality control of           according to reports on      4.1.2 Procurement reviews and
construction, environmental    equipment approved by the    disbursements by Bank.
monitoring, institutional    Bank.                        4.1.3 Reports of Bank's
strengthening, and support of                             supervision missions.
highway safety component.
5. Accident reduction
program established and      5.1 Coordination             5.1.1 Letter from each province
operational.                 mechanism established        confirming establishment of
between Traffic Police and    coordination mechanism.
Communications Department  5.2.1 Progress and final reports
by May 31, 1998, 5.2        for accident analyses and
Accident analyses and       studies.
studies carried out, Traffic    5.2.2 Final reports for safety
Safety manuals developed    manuals
and pilot black spot program   5.2.3 Project quarterly progress
implemented by 2002. See    reports and annual monitoring
Annex 5.                    reports.
6. Cost recovery mechanism                                6.1. I Quarterly progress
established and operational.    6.1 toll system implemented   reports
and operational by 2003.    6.1.2 Procurement reviews and
6.2 Study of tolls to be    disbursements by Bank.
completed 6 months prior to   6.1.3 Reports of Bank's
opening of tolled roads to  supervision missions.
traffic.                    6.2.1 Final report on study of
tolls on the different toll roads.
7. Project coordination unit                              7.1. I Quarterly progress
for each province established   7.1 Project coordination unit  reports.
and operational.             in each province functioning   7.1.2 Reports of Bank's
throughout preparation and    supervision missions.
implementation of project
and provided with necessary
funds, staff, and logistical
.__ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _   support.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       P;age 26
Country: China                                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-15788)
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Project Components*                                                                        (Activity to Output)
1.1 Contract civil works for main   1.1.1 Sign contracts with  Bank reviews and        1. Being first time
highways.                         contractors.                 clears related design    borrowers and unfamiliar
1.1.2 Payments to            and bid documents or  with the Bank in Highway
contractors.                 terms of reference      projects will not delay
and short lists of     implementation.
1.2 Contract quality control teams  1.2.1 Sign contracts with  consultants. Also,
supervision teams.           Bank reviews and        2. Sufficient counterpart
1.2.2 payments to            comments on all        funds available on time.
supervision teams.           reports for studies.
2.1 Contract civil works for RIPA                                                      3. Timely approval by
roads .                           2.1.1 Sign contracts with                            Provincial and Central
contractors.                                         Government of Civil works
2.2 Establish supervision                                                              contracts, contracts for
mechanism                         2.2.1 Supervision teams are                          supervision of construction,
operational.                                         supply of equipment, and
3.1 Develop two-year training                                                          supply and installation of
rolling programs.                 3. 1.1 Skilled teams in each                         tolling, monitoring
3.2 Select candidates for training   province have been formed                         telecommunications
3.3 Locate training institutes    and are operational.                                 systems.
Work is physically done.                             4. Little or no interference
Supporting evidence                                  by the local people in the
includes submitted reports,                          acquisition of land for
TOR, bid documents, signed                          temporary use of roads by
contracts, etc.                                      contractors, vehicles ancl
4.1 Revise/update lists of                                                             equipment.
equipment.
4.2 Prepare specifications and bid                                                     5. No major archeological
documents                                                                              finds during construction.
4.3 Sign and execute equipment
supply contracts.
5.1 Form study teams for accident
analyses and studies.
5.2 Identify and hire local and
foreign experts.
5.3 Identify black spots, develop
treatments and implement and
monitor effectiveness.
5.4 Hire safety expert to evaluate
implementation of safety
program.
6.1 Design and prepare specificatio n
and bid documents for tolling,
monitoring telecommunications,
power and lighting systems.
6.2 Contract works in 6.1.
6.3. Carry out toll study
I t would be voluminous to list all the project components and inputs. What is shown in this section represents some of the
key activities. See Annex 8 for the main steps in procurement and implementation of the main highways (civil works, supply
and installation of electrical and mechanical works, and supervision of construction). Also, see Annex 3 for implementation
of the RIPA component and Annex 5 for implementation of the safety component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                  Page 27
Country: China                                                                                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 1(a) Monitoring Indicators - Inner Mongolia
Table 1: Summary of Developmental Indicators
Project Objective Key Performance      Road Sections          1997     1999       2001          2002                2003               2005                2006
Indicators                                   (Base
Year)
Existing Existing  Existing   Existing    Proposed Existing   Proposed Existing   Proposed Existing    Proposed
Road   Road        Road     Road      Road      Road    Road       Road    Road        Road     Road
AV   PV 13|AVI4  PV  AV  PV  AV  PV  AV   PV  A\  PV  AV  PV  AV  PV  |AV  PV  AV  PV   AV
To increase    Average daily traffic   Baotou-Dongsheng        7897  10263      12229    12729               12985              14280               15023
efficiency and   ((mte/day) 1/         Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen    1335  1789       2399 _    241 _  2414 _    274        2597       352      3008       399 _   3238 _
safety of traffic   Average driving speed                        41    39          37 _      37                 90 __              89  _        _      88 _
(Km/hr.)               Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen     37    35           33       46       75        46        74       46        73        46        72
Fatalities per 10 million    Baotou-Dongsheng    7.9   8.0         8.1       8.3                3.5       401      3.01      37        2.81
vehicle-Kilometers     Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen     7.0   7.1         7.2 _    5.0 _   151         4.5                4.4  __ _           4. _     1121
PV      AV         PV       AV        PV        AV        PV    AV
To promote     GOVAI /2 (Billion RMBY)  Baotou-Dongsheng       25.4  33.0         41.8     46.3               51.3               62.9                66.2
economic                               Corridor (BDH)                          I     I_
development                            Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen    2.2   3.0          3.9       43                4.8                  6                 6.4
corridor (BFH)                                  _
Total BDH and BFH       27.6  36.0        45.7      50.6               56.1               68.9                72.6
Corridors
To provide     Sum daily traffic (mte/day) RIPA                3696  4258      1 52241    6749                7425               8910                9800
improved access Sum of days roads are    RIPA                   779   470         2701      245                200                200                 200
to poor counties  closed to traffic                                               _   _
Notes:
/1. mte: medium truck equivalent
/2 GOVAI: Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
/3 PV: Predicted (estimated) Value of indicator
/4 AV: Actual Value of indicator



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                               Page 28
Couw"y: China                                                                                                     Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 1(a) Monitoring Indicators - Inner Mongolia
Table 2: Summary of Implementation Indicators
Project Component                   Performance Indicators       1998            1999             2000 ____        2001 ______       2002 _____       2003
Estimated Actual Estimated Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated Actual
1. Main highways
- Baotou-Dongsheng Highway (BDH) Cumulative % complete         0.5             28                55               80                93              100
- Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen           Cumulative % complete        0.6             35                65               90               100
Highway (BFH)
Subtotal (BDH and BFH)           Cumulative % complete         0.5             31                581              83                95              100
2. RIPA                             Cumulative % complete         30              701              100              100       I       100       I     100
3. Equipment                        Cumulative % complete         20              65               85                95               100             100
4. Training                         Cumulative % complete          0              29               48                78               100              100
5. Highway Safety                   Cumulative % complete         10              40               70                90                95 _ 10
Project as a Whole                  Cumulative % complete          2              32               601               86                96              100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                Page 29
Country: China                                                                                                    Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE45788)
Annex 1(b): Monitoring Indicators - Gansu
Table 1: Summary of Developmental Indicators
Project Objective  Major Performance   Segment        1997    1999       2001           2002                2003                2005                 2006
Indicator                           (Base
Year)
Proposed            Proposed            Proposed            Proposed
NH 312 NH 312     NH 312   NH 312    Highway   NH 312   Highway   NH 312    Highway  NH 312    Highway
AV    PV /3 AV/4 PV   AV PV    AV  PV   AV  PV   AV PV   AV  PV   AV  PV   AV  PV    AV PV   AV
To increase     Average daily traffic  Liugouhe-Zhonghe    5274 7025   9357      4151      6651      4405      7105       4976      8027      5288      8532
efficiency and    (mte/day) _1    Xujiamo-Jiepaicun    3778 4513 .     5723      2108      5154      2235      5489       2525      6200      2683      6590
safety of traffic   Average driving  Liugouhe-Zhonghe   32   30          30        34        75         33       74         33        73        33        73
speed (km/h)      Xujiamo-Jiepaicun     33   33          32        36        65        36        75        36,        741       36        73_
Fatalities per 10  Liugouhe-Zhonghe    7.8  7.8         7.5        7.3      3.0        5.3       1.8       4.8       1.7       4.5       1.5
million vehicle-kms  Xujiamo-Jiepaicun  7.3  7.3        7.0        6.7      3.5        5.0       3.0       4.6       2.8       4.3       2.6
.__________    _____________  ______._____                     PV        AV         PV       AV         PV        AV        PV        AV
To promote      GOVAI /2           Liugouhe-Jiepaicun    22.9  27.2     32.1      34.8                37.8                44.5                 48.2
economic       (Billion RMBY)     Corridor
development     _
To provide      Sum daily traffic    First year package    1635  18231  2032     2144                2264                 2523                2662
improved        Volumes (mte/day)  of RIPA                      .             _
access to poor   Sum of days roads   First year package  332  332         0         0                    0                   0                   0
counties        are closed to traffic  of RIPA
Notes:
/1 mte: medium truck equivalent
/2 GOVAI: Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
/3 PV: Predicted (estimated) Value of indicator
/4 AV: Actual Value of indicator



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                     Page 30
Country: China                                                                                             Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 1(b): Monitoring Indicators - Gansu
Table 2: Summary of Implementation Indicators
Project           Performance Indicators      1998             1999             2000             2001             2002              2003
Component                                Estimated Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated  Actual Estimated  Actual
1. Main highways
a. LZE         Cumulative % Complete                         20               40              68                89              100
b. XJH         Cumulative % Complete        0                20               40              68                89              100
Sub-total                                   0  _             20               40              68                89              100
2. RIPA           Cumulative % Complete        30                60              90              100               100              100
3. Equipment      Cumulative % Complete         0                10              38               67                90   _          100
4. Training       Cumulative % Complete        10                37              65               80                95              100
5. Highway Safety Cumulative % Complete         0                20              45               65 _              85              100
Project as a whole   Cumulative % Complete      1                22              41               69                90              100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                       Page 31
Country: China                                                                                              Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 1(c): Monitoring Indicators - Ningxia
Table 1: Summary of Developmental Indicators
Project Objectives Key Performance    Segment  1997     1999      2001           2002                2003                2005                2006
Indicators                   (Base                       Existing  Proposed  Existing  Proposed  Existing  Proposed  Existing  Proposed
Year)   _       _          Highway  Highway   Highway  Highway   Highway Highway   Highway  Highway
PV /5 AV /E PV   AV PV   AV PV   AV  PV   AV PV   AV  PV   AV PV    AV  PV   AV PV   AV
To increase      Average daily      GWH /3    1834  2381         3154       544     3088       724      3457      1320      4533       1451     4676
efficiency and    traffic (mte/day) /1   YXH /4  745   950       1333      1470               1524                1742                 1924
safety of traffic    Average driving  GWH         36    36         36        36       65        39        63        40        61         40       60
speed (Km/hr)      YXH           30    29         45        62 _               62                  60                   58
Fatalities per 10  GWH          4.2   4.3        4.9       3.2      1.3        3.0      1.11      2.6       0.9        2.5       0.8
million vehicle-Kms  YXH       11.1  10.9        7.3 _    6.0 _                5.8                 5.7    _            5.5
PV       AV        PV        AV        PV        AV        PV         AV
To promote       GOVAI /2            Lingwi-      1.4   1.7        2.2      2.4                 2.7                 3.3                  3.8
economic        (billion RMBY)      Yanchi-
development                         Tongxing
Corridor
To provide       Sum daily           RIPA -     1518  1670       1833      1925               2018                2220                 2328
improved        traffic (mte/day) /1  first year
access to poor                      package
counties         Sum of days roads   RIPA -      833   440        250        50                  50                 50                   50
are closed to traffic  first year
package
Notes
/1 mte: medium truck equivalent
/2 GOVAI: Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
/3 GWH: the proposed Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway
/4: YXH: the proposed Yanchi-Xingren Highway, which is essentially an improvement (on same alignment) of existing road
/5 PV: Predicted (estimated) Value of indicator
/6 AV: Actual Value of indicator



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                         Page 32
Country: China                                                                                    Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 1(c): Monitoring Indicators - Ningxia
Table 2: Summary of Implementation Indicators
Project Component Performance Indicators      1998           1999           2000          2001           2002           2003
Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual
1. Main Highways
GWH             Cumulative % complete      2.3            28             70             95             95            100
YXH             Cumulative % complete      2.0            25             54             75             92            100
Sub-total                                  2.1_  _        27_ _          64 _           87             94            100
2. RIPA           Cumulative % complete       29             67             90            100           100             100
3. Equipment      Cumulative % complete        8             13             48             85  _        100             100
4. Training        Cumulative % complete      15             50             70             90            100            100
5. Road Safety     Cumulative % complete       0             25             51             74            95             100
Project as a Whole  Cumulative % complete     3.0            29     _       65             85             95            100



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 33
Country: China                                        Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 2
Detailed Description of Main Highways
INNER MONGOLIA
The main highways included under the project consist of the construction on new right-of-way of the
Baotou-Dongsheng Highway (BDH) and the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway (BFH). BDH serves Baotau,
the main industrial city in Inner Mongolia, as well as the extraction of minerals (especially coal) from the
area south of Baotou towards Dongsheng and the very large Dalad power plant. BFH constitutes an
important segment of the national trunk highway (no. 208) extending from Erlian in Inner Mongolia in the
north to Taiyun (Shanxi Province), Xian (Shaanxi Province), Chengdu (Sichuan Province), Kunming
(Yunnan Province) and Hekou in Yunnan Province.
Baotou Dongsheng Highway (BDH)
This road is about 103 km and consists of two segments. The segment from Baotou (Erdaoshahe) to
Dongsheng North Interchange, totally 90.4 km, shall be to the Class 1 Highway standard for flat/rolling
terrain. Of this segment, the 10.4 -km section from the starting point (PKO + 000) to Huajiangyingzi (PKIO
+400) shall be upgraded to Class I standard with a subgrade width of 24.5 m; the 25.45-km Guanjiayingzi
(PK 15 + 400)- Bainiyaozi (PK40 + 850) section and the 0.8-km section from PK89 + 600 to PK90 + 400
(Dongsheng North Interchange) will be newly built to class I standard with monolithic roadway. The other
sections will be built into a class I motorway with separated roadways, one to be newly built with a subgrade
width of 12.5 m, and another one to be built by upgrading the existing Class 2 highway. The segment from
Dongsheng North Interchange to Buridu Bridge (Dongsheng Bypass), with a length of 10.86 km shall be to
the regular Class 2 standard for flat/rolling terrain, and the subgrade width will be 12 m. This road also
includes the construction of two linking roads. The 11.5km Machi Link Road shall be constructed to the
regular Class 2 standard for flat/rolling terrain with a subgrade of 12 m. The 2.56km Dongsheng Link Road
shall be built to the Class I Standard for flat/rolling terrain with a subgrade of 24.5 m. This highway will be
operated as a toll road. It includes 5 interchanges, 2 toll stations, I service area, I parking area, 3
management offices (two of which will be in Baoutou) and supply and installation of electro-mechanical
works (primarily tolling system).
Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway (BFH)
This 142km highway serves one of the poorest areas of Inner Mongolia. The Baiyinchagan to Jining
section with a length of 70 km shall be upgraded to Class 2 standard. The section from Jining to Fengzhen
(provincial boundary with Shanxi Province) with a length of about 72 km will be constructed to a Class 2
Auto-Only standard. This highway will be operated as a toll road. It includes 3 toll stations, 1 road
maintenance division in Jining, 3 maintenance offices (Baiyinchagan, Tuguiwula, Fengzhen), and a small
amount of electro-mechanical works. In addition, a 4.4km Class 3 linking road would be constructed to
Tuguiwula Township, a 0.8km Class 3 linking road would be constructed to Tuguiwula Township and a
0.8km Class 3 linking road would be constructed to Daliuhao.
Supervision of Construction
Based on the experience gained from on-going Bank-financed highway projects in Chinal a combined
team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and international consultants will supervise the
above-mentioned, main highways. The organizational arrangements for the construction supervision as well
as the Terms of Reference for the joint supervision team have been drawn up by the provincial
Communications Department and found by the Bank to be adequate. The international experts would be
integrated into the supervision organization with operational responsibilities and would help establish
procedures at all levels of the supervisory work, including on-site inspections and laboratory testing. They



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 34
Country: China                                        Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
would also train local staff through formal training sessions and on the job. A total of 4 experts for a total of
about 100 persons-months are envisaged for construction supervision of which 3 person-months are for
training and 7 person-months are for contingencies, to be used as and when needed.
GANSU
The main highways included under the Gansu part of the Droject comprise construction of the
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway and the Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Class 2 Auto-only Highway. Both of these
highways form an important section of the east-west national trunk highway (no. 310 and 312) extencding
from Lianxyungang port on the China Sea in the East to Huoerguosi at the border with Kazakhastan in the
West. Both the Central Government and the provincial government accord a higher priority to these roads.
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (LZE)
This 33.5km expressway with full control of access serves as a bypass to the city of Lanzhou
(Capitol of Gansu Province) and provides 4 travel lanes in two carriageways with a subgrade of 21.5 meters
and a design speed of 80 kilometers per hour. This expressway includes construction of four interchanges, 5
tolling stations, a service area, a management station for LZE and another one for administration of the high-
grade highway from Liugouhe to Xujiamo to Jiepaicun-Gulang Highway as well as the supply and
installation of a tolling, monitoring, telecommunications, power supply and lighting system.
In order for the expected benefits of the expressway to be realized, it is essential that Tianshiulu
linking road is extended about 1.8km to the south to connect with the existing street network of Lanzhou. The
extension will have a subgrade of 42 meters and will provide 4 traffic lanes and two lanes for slow-moving
traffic. The extension should be completed by the time the expressway and its linking road are compleled.
The city of Lanzhou has provided a written commitment to the Bank that this extension will be constructed
and completed on time.
Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway (XJH)
The 64 km Class 2 Auto-Only Highway with full-control of access provides two travel lanes on a
subgrade of 12 meters (except 5.7km section from Xujiamo to Longquansi which has a 16.5 meter wide
subgrade) and a design speed of 80km /hr. Also, it includes the construction of 4 interchanges, 5 toll stations,
a management station and a service area. In addition, it involves supply and installation of a small tolling,
power supply and lighting system. It will be operated as a toll road.
To preserve a high and uniform standard of service along the Liugouhe-Jiepaicun Highway, i1l is
essential that all capacity constraints (such as the tunnels) along the Zhonghe-Xujiamo existing highway are
properly addressed and the necessary electrical and mechanical works are provided. Gansu will satisfy these
requirements from its own funds.
Supervision of Construction
Supervision of the two highways in Gansu will follow the same set-up as presented for the main
highways in Inner Mongolia. The joint international/local supervision team would include 5 international
experts for a total of about 100 person-months. Of this total, 3 person-months are for training and 4 person-
months are reserved as contingencies for special services or extensions of supervision services to be used
when and as needed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 35
Country: China                                        Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
NINGXIA
The main highways included under the Ningxia part of the project are the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang
Class I Highway (GWH) and the Yanchi-Xingren ordinary Class 2 Highway (YXH). GWH is part of a
national trunk highway - extending from Yinchuan to Taiyuan (Shanxi Province), Jinan and the port of
Qingdao (Shandong) on the East China Sea. Both the Central Government and the Provincial Government
attach great importance to this highway as a part of the NTHS. Also, it serves a very important traffic
corridor in Ningxia as well as the rich coal and petroleum resources in the southeast of Ningxia. YXH is an
important east-west provincial highway and serves the poor counties along its alignment as well as those poor
people who have been relocated from the poor mountainous areas in the south of Ningxia to the irrigated
agricultural areas around Xiantoushi.
Guyaozi-Wangqanliang Highway (GWH)
This is a 94.0 Km high-grade highway to be constructed on a new right-of-way. The design standard
for the 83.4km section between Guyaozi and Yanchi consists of a 4-lane Class I Highway subgrade but with
the pavement for the two outside lanes only. The pavement for the remaining two lanes will be added in the
future when the traffic volumes warrant such a widening. The 10.7km section between Yanchi and
Wangquanliang will be constructed to Class 2 Auto-Only standard (2-lanes). The highway will be operated as
a toll road. In addition to the road and bridge works, GWH includes a construction of a Yanchi, Gaoshawo
mainline toll station, Yanchi mainline toll station and a Yanchi ramp toll station. A management center, a
service area at Yanchi and a parking area at Gaoshawo and a service area at Guyaozi are planned to be
constructed in the future. Furthermore, GWH involves the supply and installation of a tolling system and a
power supply system.
Linking Roads to GWH
The project includes the construction of 4 linking roads to GWH with a total length of about 6.7km.
These consist of a 0.5km connection between the end of GWH at Wangquanliang to the existing highway No.
307, a l.0km linking road to Yanchi, a 1.0km linking road to Gaoshawo, and 2 linking roads with a total
length of 4.0km at Guyaozi. All of these linking roads will be constructed to Ordinary Class 2 road standard.
Their works have been included in the design and bid documents for GWH.
Yanchi-Xingren Highway (YXH)
This highway serves the poor counties of Yanchi, Tongxin and Haiyuan agricultural areas including
those inhabitants resettled from the poor areas in the southern mountainous region of the province to the
Yellow River Pumping Project. The length of the road is about 250.5km and has an Ordinary Class 2
Standard and consists of three sections. The 82.5km section between Yanchi County town and Hui'anbu is to
be upgraded from an existing Class 3 and 4 road. The 111.9km section between Hui'anbu and Taoshankou
involves adding the wearing course to the existing road and building a 3.7km bypass around Hui'anbu
Township. The 56.5km segment between Taoshanku and Haojiaji consists of rehabilitating the pavement of
the existing road.
Supervision of Construction
Similar arrangements to those for Inner Mongolia and Gansu will be followed for the supervision of
construction of the two main highways in Ningxia. The joint international/local supervision team would
include 4 international experts for a total of about 99 persons-months. This total includes 4 persons-months
for training of local staff and 9 persons-months for contingencies to be used when and as needed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 36
Countiy: China                                         Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 3
Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)
A.    Project Development Objective
The primary objective of the RIPA component is to help alleviate poverty, in the three
regions/provinces, by providing and improving all weather access to villages and towns. The key issue iis to
provide year round access to the rural population in the poor counties. Experience, with other Bank projects
in China, Shaanxi and Henan, indicates that provision of basic access through all-weather roads and
provision of non-motorized transport are contributing factors to reducing poverty in rural areas. RIPA
component in the three regions/provinces: Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR), Ningxia Hui
Autonomous Region (NHAR), and Gansu Province (GP) focuses on the lower level roads in the poorest
counties, which by definition have a significantly larger number of poor people than the province's and the
country's as a whole. These roads should result in lower transport costs, ( for people and goods ) and provide
all year access to the affected communities. Furthermore, this should improve access of rural people to social
services such as education and health. In addition, the provision of such access would increase employment
opportunities, particularly during the construction period and in maintenance.
B.    First Screening: Selection of Poor Counties
In each of the Regions/Province :, all the counties designated as poor by the State and the
Province/Region will be included for consideration possible RIPA projects. IMAR has 50 counties and banners
designated as poor ( 31 by the state and 19 by the region ), NHAR has 11 of such counties ( 8 counties
designated by the state and 3 counties by the region ) and GP has 49 such counties ( 41 state designated and 9
region designated ). The final selection of RIPA counties/banners, was done by the three Regions/Province,
based on their own priorities and in conjunction with their socio-economic five year development plans.
C.    Second Screening: RIPA System Priorities
RIPA system segments were chosen according to the following order of priorities:
(a) Provide all weather access roads to all administrative villages and townships. These roads can be
unclassified roads (not paved);
(b) Improve existing drainage systems (culverts and bridges) and provide proper slopes (repair,
strengthen and reconstruct unstable slopes);
(c) Upgrade existing seasonal roads to all weather roads;
(d) Upgrade existing all weather roads (from unclassified roads to class IV roads);
(e) Rehabilitate and/or upgrade existing connections to the higher level (class IV to class III)
highways.
D.    Third Screening: Selection of the RIPA Systems -The Initial Basket
An initial basket of RIPA systems, which is subject to further cost effectiveness screening, was
proposed based upon the following procedures:
(a) Select the RIPA road segments in each targeted poor county according to the order of priorities
listed above.
(b) Combine the segments into RIPA systems based upon groupings of administrative villages amd
townships, and the connections to the provincial/regional highway system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 37
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
E.    Fourth Screening of RIPA Systems: Cost Effectiveness
The Initial RIPA Basket which passed the third screening was screened for cost effectiveness based
upon the following procedures:
(a) Estimate the cost of each proposed RIPA system in the RIPA Initial Basket;
(b) Estimate the population of the influence area of each system;
(c) Calculate the cost effectiveness ration (per capita cost = cost of the system divided by the
population of the influence area);
(d) Adjust the cost effectiveness ratio (for comparative purposes) only for those road segments with
unique and substantially high cost conditions such as mountain regions, rock excavation, river
cosigns and major slopes;
(e) The systems with the lowest adjusted cost effectiveness ratio will have the highest priority for
further analysis (economic and social feasibility and benefit analysis ) and implementation;
(f) Consider additional unique prevailing circumstances such as connectivity to other modes, impact
on and of other road investments in the county and proximity to major networks;
(g) The resulting RIPA Basket, after this screening, is the RIPA implementation Basket. All the
RIPA systems in this basket will be subject to economic and social analyses.
F.     Fifth Screening: Analyses of Economic Benefits
All proposed road segments were grouped into small road systems for analyses. Therefore they were
not analyzed segment by segment. All of these roads need not be paved but must provide all weather access.
The proposed systems can include unclassified (less than Class IV) roads, and classified roads ( Class IV and
Class III). Where any new or rehabilitated Class III roads are proposed, they must not be stand-alone roads but
must include other all weather access roads to poor areas. The expected minimum economic internal rate of
return (EIRR) will be 9 percent.
G.    Sixth Screening : Analysis of Social Benefits
Social benefits will include the following:
(a) The total population of the influence area that will benefit from new all-weather road access (to
villages and townships which currently have no road connections) and from upgrading of
existing seasonal roads to all-weather access;
(b) Benefits of all-year educational access to higher level schools in other townships (the number of
students able to attend higher level schools in other township because of improved roads;
(c) The number of days when the roads are closed or are not useable preventing access to education
and health services in other towns and centers;
(d) Benefits of improved access to health care facilities (the number of people able to access higher
level clinics and hospitals in other townships all through the year); and,
Reduction in the Food for Work Expenditures (Welfare Expenditure) because of increasing employment
opportunities.
H.    Motorization, Motor Vehicles and required Road Systems
Data on the number of motor vehicles (in different categories such cars, trucks, motorcycles, tractors)
and non-motorized (NMT) vehicles (bicycles, rickshaws and carts) I the counties, which will have RIPA
systems, was provided and evaluated. This information should be reviewed in the context of recent high
growth of motorization in China. The primary purpose of this review is to assure that the type of road
systems that are proposed (unclassified roads, class IV roads) fit with the trends in the motor vehicle and
non-motorized vehicle population and their use. The standards of geometric and function design should be
commensurate with the vehicle systems using the roads.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 38
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-4'5788)
I.     Road Classification System
It was agreed that MOC Standards for Highway Classification (PRC Ministry of Communications,
Technical Standard's of Highway Engineering, 1995, Document #JTJ 01-88, PP 1-2) would be used for
determining the level of road improvements. However, unique circumstances of connectivity and the
economic importance of population centers served by the proposed RIPA systems where applicable will
modify the final classification. The current MOC standards, based upon Average Daily Traffic expresses in
Medium Truck Equivalents (MTE) are as follows:
Class I Highways             Higher than 5,000 ADT
Class I Highways             2,000-5,000 ADT
Class I Highways             200-2,000 ADT
Class I Highways             Less than 200 ADT may be paved
Unclassified Highways        Less than 200 ADT not paved
J.     RIPA Implementation Basket
Based upon above-described screening procedures and analyses f costs aiid benefits, a RIPA
Implementation Basket was developed. It is summarized in Table 1 below:
Annex 3: Table 1: RIPA Implementation Basket
Region/Province     Total Length (Km)      Total Cost (Y million)
IMAR                     836                     157.4
Ningxia                  253                      60.2
Gansu                    803                     172.9
TOTAL                 1887                    390.5
K.    RIPA Implementation Plans
Based upon screening procedures, RIPA Implementation Plans were developed. Only those RIP'A
systems that complied with all of the above screening requirements, were included in the Implementation
Plan. These plans are shown in Tables 2 - 4.
L.    Processing of RIPA Packages
Because of the size of the RIPA program in each province, it will be processed in annual packages
with each package covering several systems/segments. Tables 2 - 4 summarize the first-year (1998) package
in each of the provinces. Preparation of this package was checked by the Bank and found satisfactory from
an economic, technical, social, and environmental points of views.
The RIPA Implementation Packages for 1999 and 2000 will be processed according to the following
procedures and analyses:
(a) All RIPA systems to be implemented are required to be screened and analyzed for cost
effectiveness including feasibility (economic and social benefits) analyses as described above.
Only those systems yielding the agreed upon benefits and cost effectiveness ratios are to
implemented;
(b) Inner'Mongolia has completed all the analyses required by the Bank. They have chosen, with the
concurrence of the Bank, to start implementation of all their chosen systems in 1998. The
implementation plan is shown in Table 2. No further feasibility analyses are required;
(c) Gansus's implementation plan is shown in Table 3. They have completed the feasibility analyses
only for those systems to be implemented in 1998. It was agreed that Gansu will submit to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 39
Country: China                                         Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Bank socio-economic feasibility studies and summary reports, environmental and resettlement
documents for 1999 systems by June 15, 1998 and for year 2000 systems by June 15, 1999;
(d) Ningxia has completed the feasibility analyses for all their RIPA systems. Their implementation
plan is shown in Table 4. No further feasibility analyses are required. However, environmental
and resettlement documents would have to be submitted to the Bank: by June 15, 1998 for year
1999 systems and by June 15, 1999 for year 2000 systems.
Annex 3: Table 2. RIPA Implementation Plan: Inner Mongolia
System #              Cost
Length  (Million                           Implementation Year
County      Segment #      Km      RMB)        Improvement              (Million RMB)
1998      1999      2000
Duolun            1-1         85      15.30   Upgr 89 km Uncl to   7.65        7.65
85 Km/IV
Wuchuan           2-2         59      9.00   New Road. Cl IV        3.00       3.00      3.00
Darhan and        3-3         65      9.00   Upgr 73 km Uncl to   4.50         4.50
Muminggan                                     65 Km/IV
Aohan             4-4         44      9.00   Upgr 49 km Uncl to   4.50         4.50
44 Km/EI
Hexigten          4-5         98      13.50   Upgr 107 km Uncl to   4.50       4.50      4.50
98 Km/I
Linxi             4-6         64      15.00   Upgr 73 km Uncl to   7.50        7.50
64 Km/Ill
Bairin Right      4-7         75      12.00   Upgr 85 km Uncl to   4.00        4.00      4.00
75 Km/I
Qahar Right,      5-8         71      12.00   New Road, Cl NV       4.00       4.00      4.00
Middle
Huade,            5-9         62      15.00   Upgr 66 km UncI to   5.00        5.00      5.00
Shangdu                                       62 Km/Ill
Shangdu          5-10         40      15.15   Upgr 45 km Uncl to   7.50        7.65
40 Km/Ill
Hangjin          6-11         77      11.50   Upgr 86 km Uncl to   5.75        5.75
77 Km/Ill & IV
Ejin Haro        6-12         40      10.00   Upgr 44 km Uncl to   3.50        3.50      3.00
Uxin                                          40 Km/IV
Horqin           7-13         56      11.00   New Road, Cl IV       3.50       3.50      4.00
Right,
Middle
Total         7 Systems      836     157.45                        64.90      65.05     27.50
13 Segments



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 40
Country: China                                       Project Title: Tr-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 3: Table 3. RIPA Implementation Plan: Gansu
System #             Cost,
-    Length   Million
County     Segment #    Km       RMB      Improvement   Implementation Year, Million RMB
1998      1999        2000
Tianzu         IA         17.1      2.44  Upgr Uncl to V     2.44
Gulang         1B         13.7      2.74  Upgr IV to III     2.74
Jingtai       2A          25.4      3.47   Upgr Uncl to III            2.00        1.47
Pingchuan     2B1         24.7      6.70  Upgr Uncl to III             3.30        3.40
Jingyan        2B2        26.1      7.80  Upgr IV to III               4.40        3.40
Jingyan       2C          34.5      7.52   Upgr IV to III              4.52        3.00
Lintao        3A          21.0      6.40  Upgr Uncl to III             4.40        2.00
Weiyuan       3A2         24.0      6.56  Upgr Uncl to III             3.56        3.00
Longxi         4A         60.0      8.91   Upgr IV to II               5.50        3.41
Zhangxian     4B          31.4      8.10  Upgr Uncl to IV              4.10        4.00)
Zhuanglang     5          12.6      3.50  Upgr Unci to III             2.00        1.51)
Qingyang       6A         39.0     11.90  Upgr IV to III                          11.9(
Huachi         6B         56.4      8.59  Upgr IV to III                           8.59
Hezheng        7A         43.5      8.50  Upgr Unci to III             4.50        4.00
Jishishan      7B         29.0      8.40  Upgr IV to III               4.40        4.00
Guanghe       7C          22.3      3.70  Upgr IV to III               2.00        1.7CI
Lingtan        8AI        15.0      3.30   Upgr Uncl to TV             2.30        1.00
Zhuoni         8A2        98.5     21.59  Upgr Uncl to III            11.00       10.59
Tongwei       9A1         23.0      6.28  Upgr IV to III                           6.28
Gangu         9A2         40.0      9.80   Upgr TV to III                          9.80
Tanchang       IOA        24.9      4.30  Upgr Uncl to IV    4.30
Kangxian      lOB         23.0      5.72  Upgr Uncl to III   4.72      1.00
Lixian         IOC        56.0     10.50   Upgr Uncl to IV   4.00      3.50        3.00
Weixian       lOD         42.0      6.14  Upgr Uncl to IV    4.60      1.54
Total      10 Systems   803.1    172.86                     22.80     64.02       86.04
24 Segments                                        _



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 41
Country: China                                        Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 3: Table 4. RIPA Implementation Plan: Ningxia
Cost,
Length  Million
County      System #     Km     RMB        Improvement    Implementation Year, Million RMB
1998       1999      2000
Haiyuan         2-2         15     3.00   Upgr Uncl to IV       3.00
Haiyuan         2-3         15     3.70   Upgr Unci to IV                             3.70
Xiji            3-4        10      3.00   Upgr Uncl to IV       3.00
Xiji            3-5         16     4.00   Upgr Uncl to IV                  4.00
Xiji            3-6        18      4.00   Upgr Uncl to IV                  4.00
Xiji            3-7        15      3.30   Upgr Uncl to IV                             3.30
Pengyang        4-9        18      5.50   Upgr Uncl to IV                  5.50
Pengyang        4-11        8      1.60   Upgr Uncl to IV       1.60
Yanchi          5-12       20      3.00   Upgr Uncl to IV                  3.00
Yanchi          5-13        13     2.10   Upgr Uncl to IV                             2.10
Tongxin         6-14       35      9.00   Upgr Uncl to IV       9.00
Tongxin         6-15       30      9.00   Upgr Uncl to IV                  9.00
Tongxin         6-16       40      9.00   Upgr Uncl to IV                             9.00
Total        5 systems    253    60.20                         16.60      25.50      18.10
13 segments  253                                  166



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                      Page 42
Country: China                                                                                             Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 4: Institutional Strengthening and Training
Table 1: IST Components by Organization to be Strengthened
Training (in person/months)              Total           Total                Total IST
Province or Autonomous Region / Organization   In   In        Abroad      Study         Training       Equipment        in RMB        in US$
Province    China                 Tours
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REG.                  122       360         99          41       13,460,409       32,109,007     45,569,416    5,490,291
Communications Department                        8         61          0          13       1,418,137        14,393,510    15,811,647     1,905,018
Project Office                                 114        110         45          13       5,345,237        2,927,000      8,272,237      996,655
Research Institute                               0         58         15          4        1,826,296        4,259,997      6,086,293      733,288
Highway Administration Bureau                    0         59         24          4        2,505,596         1,035,500     3,540,596      426,578
Toll Collection and Inspection Bureau            0         40          9           3       1,177,147         7,384,000     8,561,147     1,031,463
Communications Technical School                  0         32          6          4        1,187,996        2,109,000      3,296,996      397,228
GANSU                                          333        111         52          41        8,358,909        9,045,029     17,403,938    2,096,860
Provincial Communications Department            24         21          0          11       1,021,839          640,000      1,661,839      200,222
Project Office                                  75         23         22           8       2,561,492        3,345,003      5,906,495      711,626
Engineering Division                             6          8          0           3         293,447          410,000        703,447       84,753
Provincial Highway Bureau                       35         23          3           7         983,243          850,003      1,833,246      220,873
Provincial Traffic Planning, Survey and
Design Institute                                43         17          9          4        1,181,396         1,050,012     2,231,408      268,844
Provincial Traffic Scientific Research Institute  53       11          7          4          936,296         1,130,000     2,066,296      248,951
Provincial Communications School                19          6          6          3          754,947          950,011      1,704,958      205,417
Traffic Engineering Construction Sprvsn Co.     78          0          5           1         612,249          600,000      1,212,249      146,054
Traffic Scientific Technical Telecomm. Ctr.      0          2          0           0          14,000           70,000         84,000        10,120
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION                  710        204         21          35        7,091,161        6,670,239     13,761,400     1,658,000
Ningxia Communications Department               36          1          0          14        1,131,886        1,984,000     3,115,886      375,408
High Class Highway Administration              298         81         20          10        3441,270        2,214,590      5,655,860      681,429
Spec.School of Comm./Technical School           30         19          0          2          345,898          793,383      1,139,281      137,263
Highway Survey and Design Institute             50         32          0          3          578,830         1,678,266     2,257,096      271,939
Research Institute of Communications            25         12          0           1         186,466                0        186,466       22,466
Quality Supervision Center for Highway  Works    6          4          1           1         165,515                0        165,515        19,942
Rureaut of Highwa,y Administra.ti^             175         30          0          2          727,398                0        727,398       87,638
Bureau of Highway Construction                  90         25          0          2          513,898         _      0        513,898       61,915
TOTAL                           1,165       675         172        117       28,916,953       47,823,775     76.74n,728     9,245,871



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                       Page 43
Country: China                                                                                             Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 4
Table 2: Training by Subject and by Province/Autonomous Region
(Person-Months)
Local and in China     Abroad & Stud Tour         Totals to be Trained          Trainin  Y1-Y2
Subject Areas for Trainingl                         l                        Y                          l        
Subject_Areas_for_Training      _ IMCD   GPCD  NHCD  IMCD  GPCD   NHCD   IMCD   GPCD   NHCD   IMCD   GPCD   NHCD
Highway Project Management                       0       5       10       2       3       4        0         8         14        1        8       14
Highway and Bridge Engineering                 41       40               23      17       13      65        57         13      15       27         6
Highway Planning and Design                     21       2        0       12      4        0      32         6          0       3        6         0
Testing and Inspection of Highway Works                 20       66               3        0       0        23         66       4        0         0
Road Maintenance and Management                 32       6      123       16      7        0      48        13        123       0        0         0
Transportation Management                        8       4        0       3       2        0      11         6          0       0         0        0
Traffic Engineering                              6       18      24       6       7        6.7    12        25         30       5       20         0
Financial Management                             9      27       35        1      2        3.3    10        29         38       0       29         0
Highway Machinery                               13       18     100       4       0        0      17        18        100        0       18        0
Computer Skills                                 18      34      200        0      0        0      18        34        200        6        0        0
Management of Training organization             22       10       0       11      6        6      33        16          6       17       16        6
English Language                               100      39       54      24      18        0     124        57         54      124       51       54
Materials Testing and Equipment Mngmt            2        0      12               0        0       2         0         12        0        0       12
Economic Analysis of Projects                   34      22        5        3      0        0      35        22          5        5        0        0
Organization and Construction Supervision               90      100       4      15        0       6       105        100        0      105      100
Operations Mgmt of High Grade Highways          40        0      10       12      2        0      54         2         10       13        0        0
Resettlement                                    15      20       30       4       0        0      19        20         30       11       20       30
Road Traffic Safety                             67      68       30       2       3        2      69        71         32      21        77       32
RIPA                                            10                        4                                                     14        0        0
Environmental Protection and Monitoring         24       16       9       2       3        0      26        19         19        5       19       19
Project Management and Supervision              20        5      96       2       0       21      22         5        117        0        0      109
Procurement                                                                5                       5         0          0        4        0        0
TOTAL                      482      444      914     140      93       56     622       537        970     248      396      382



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 44
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 5
Highway Safety and Improvement
General
1.    The traffic safety situation in Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (as in
other provinces in China) is serious. During the past few years almost 3,000 persons per year were ki lled
by traffic accidents in these provinces. The number killed per 100,000 persons (5.7) is not high and is
comparable with rates of developed nations, but the number killed per 10,000 vehicles (25.4) is very high
and is at least 10 times higher than the rate of Western Europe and North American countries. Also, the
severity rate (defined as the number killed divided by the number of killed and injured) is high. the
situation is expected to get worse unless some appropriate actions are taken because of the fast pace of
increase in vehicles and because China is in the early stages of motorization.
2.    Due to the alarming safety situation, the Bank engaged the services of one safety expert under the
Finnish Trust Funds. The expert studied the topic, identified the problems and defined a reasonable, but
modest road safety component for inclusion in the proposed project for tackling the road safety problem.
Institutions Involved
3.    The Traffic Police General Team of Public Security Bureau (Police) and the Provincial
Communications Department are the main institutions involved in road safety work in all of the three
provinces. The traffic police is responsible for vehicle testing and licensing, driver training and testing,
law enforcement and education as well as collection and treatment of accident data. Quite often, the
Police even take care of the transport of injured persons to the hospitals. The Provincial Communications
Departments (PCD) are responsible for design, construction and maintenance of highways as well as
installation and maintenance of road traffic signs and markings. Cooperation between the traffic Police
and Communications Department is not strong and rieeds strengthening in all three provinces.
Proposed Highway Safety Program
4.    All three provinces are first-time borrowers from the Bank in the highway area, which means ithat
they are not familiar with Bank procedures and work methods. Also, all three provinces are relatively
poor, inland provinces with limited institutional capacity in the highway area. The proposed project is
relatively complex and has many components. Moreover, experience in the highway safety component in
past Bank-financed highway projects has shown the difficulties facing implementation of this component
when joint action was required by both the traffic police and the communications department.
Consequently, it was agreed with the three provinces that the project would include a relatively small
safety component which centers on actions and improvements which are primarily within the domain of
the provincial communication departments. The agreed safety component consists of the following:
(a) Limited actions to increase cooperation between the traffic police and the communications
departments;
(b) Analysis of traffic accidents and study by Inner Mongolia of the safety effects of different
highway design features;
(c) Pilot program for treatment of accident black spots;
(d) Development of traffic safety manuals;
(e) Development of safety audit procedures;
(f) Provision of equipment, technical assistance, and training to support the above-mentioned
activities; and
(g) Evaluation of the implementation of the safety component by an independent local expert.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 45
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Policy Level Traffic Safety Cooperation
5.    A high-level, traffic safety coordination or leading group will be established in each province to
improve cooperation between Traffic Police and the Communications Department as follows:
(a) Gansu: A high-level, Traffic Safety Leading Group was established in May 1997;
(b) Inner Mongolia: The Production Safety Committee will, under the lead of the Deputy
Chairman of the Province, pay special attention to cooperation in the traffic safety field. If
that doesn't succeed, the Traffic Police and Communications Department will establish a
regular traffic safety policy coordination group;
(c) Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region: A Road Traffic Safety Leading Group was established in
May 1998.
6.     The tasks of the above mentioned coordination groups will be mainly to:
-  Raise the awareness of traffic safety;
-  Discuss and solve important policy level traffic safety problems;
-  Follow up the development of traffic safety and decide on major remedial actions;
-  Improve cooperation among parties involved in traffic safety work.
7.     Traffic Safety Secretariat Services will be provided in each province by a group of 4 to 5 persons
working for the Communications Department. The Secretariat should be lead by a traffic safety expert.
The Secretariat will prepare a safety related material to improve traffic safety awareness and knowledge,
help arrange and prepare the required documents for the Coordination Group meetings and to help
coordinate the traffic safety component of the Tri-provincial Highway Project.
Accident Analyses
8.    Accident data is gathered and analyzed by the traffic police. Although the Communications
Departments can get the accident information they need from the police, the accident information they
have received has been limited. Little analyses of the collected data have been made and it was agreed
that the Police will grant access to it's accident database for the last three years to the Communications
Departments so that the latter can analyze all the relevant data. TOR for this work have been prepared
and are available in the project file. The main purposes of the analysis of the accident data are to:
(i)  study the main characteristics of the accidents in order to help determine
priority areas in traffic safety and devise appropriate strategies and
measures to reduce traffic accidents;
(ii)  help identify traffic accident black spots and help devise a pilot program
for treatment of such spots;
(iii) increase cooperation and exchange of information, between the Traffic
Police and the Communications Departments.
Study of the Effect of Highway Design Features on Highway Safety
9.    Inner Mongolia will carry out a study of the safety effects of different highway design features
based on the available accident data, physical data on highways as well as traffic volumes. The terms of
reference for this study, the required personnel and equipment, related cost estimate and implementation
schedule were agreed with the Inner Mongolia Communications Department and are available in the
project file.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 46
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Black Spot Treatment Pilot Program
10.   Systematic Black spot improvements have proven to be an effective way of conducting traffic
safety work in many industrialized countries. Black spot improvements have been successfully used in
many countries and good expertise is abundant. It is very important and cost effective to learn as much as
possible from those countries that have used the method systematically for a long time.
11.   It was agreed that a pilot black spot program would be carried out in all three provinces. For this
purpose, a special black spot group will be established in each province and trained. The group should be
initially trained by a Chinese and an international consultant for about one month during it's first and
second years. During the third and fourth years, the consultants should return for a half month to make
sure the quality of the work is adequate and provide guidance as needed. The three provinces have
agreed to use the same international expert(s) for this task inorder to reduce the related effort and cost.
Accordingly, each province would need about 1.5 person-months of international expert effort, for a total
of 4.5 person-months for the project.
12.   For the analyses of black spots and their traffic, the group will be provided with the necessary
equipment (vehicle, photo and video cameras, scanner, speed radar and computers with printers).
13.   The black spots will be identified on the basis of the analyses of the accident data (para. 8). 'rhe
work will be carried out as an experiment with control sites. About 25 black spots will be identified in
Ningxia and about 50 in each of Gansu and Inner Mongolia. Out of these, 12 will be selected at ranclom
for treatment in Ningxia and about 24 in each of Gansu and Inner Mongolia.
14.   A special budget will be reserved for the implementation of the proposed improvements. Ningxia
agreed to allocate about Y2. 1 million for the pilot program, Inner Mongolia Y4.8 million and Gansu Y5.1
million. These budgets are based on a cost of about Y170,000-200,000 per treated place.
15.   The black spot work is expected to be initiated in 1999 and to be completed within four years
(around end of 2002). After completion of the pilot program, the black spot work will be continued as a
part of normal traffic safety work of the Maintenance Section at the Prefecture level of the
Communications Department on a permanent basis. The personnel who participated in the pilot black
spot work will be responsible for the training of the relevant personnel at the prefecture level.
Traffic Safety Manuals
16.   Three Highway Safety manuals will be prepared. Gansu will be responsible for the "Highway
Maintenance Safety Manual", Inner Mongolia for the "Highway Design Safety Manual" and Ningxia for
the "Highway Construction Safety Manual". A small manual production group will be established in
each province to prepare the manual. The provinces will cooperate closely in their work. Help from
Chinese and international experts will be provided. About 1 person-month by an international expert will
be needed by each province, or a total of 3 person-months for the three provinces. The group(s) will be
provided with a computer with connection to the Internet to facilitate access to information from other
countries.
Development of Safety Audit Procedures
17.   It has been seen in industrialized countries that despite detailed road design manuals, new road
plans do not meet all the requirements of safety. Many countries are now introducing what is called
safety audits of new road plans. This work consists of the development of a number of check lists and
guidelines that explain how to check road design to ensure that the roads do not contribute to the
occurrence of accidents.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 47
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
18.   It was agreed that such safety audit procedures shall be developed by the Gansu Provincial
Communications Department. In this regard, the Gansu province should avail itself of the safety audit
work carried out or to be carried out under the Bank-financed Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project (Loan
3569-CHA) and the Second Henan Provincial Highway Project (Loan 4027-CHA). This work will also
include a detailed plan for introducing safety audit procedures in highway work in Gansu province.
Evaluation of Traffic Safety
19.   To ensure the effectiveness of the Traffic Safety Component, an independent Chinese expert will
evaluate the safety component and propose needed corrective actions for the future. This will be
completed in each of the three provinces. The results of the evaluation will be documented in a report by
each province to be submitted to the Bank for review and comment.
Costs of the Traffic Safety
20.   Costs of the traffic safety program divided by component and implementation year are presented
in Tables 1, 2 and 3 for Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia, respectively. Table 4 presents the cost
summary of all three provinces combined. The overall cost of this component in all three provinces is
about Y19.5 million ($2.4 million) or about 0.3% of the total cost of the project.
Timetable
21.   The implementation schedule of the various elements of the highway safety component are
presented in Tables 5, 6, and 7 for Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia, respectively. The program will
be implemented over 4 years, starting in 1999 and ending in 2003.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 48
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 5: Table 1: Implementation costs by year in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Distribution of costs by year of                      Costs in 1000 Yuan
implementation
Type of use     Item       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     Total
Personnel           1           30        30        30         30      120
2          30                                      30
3          20        40         40        40      140
4                     50        50                100
5          50        50         50        50      200
SUBTOT        130       170       170        120      590    Personnel
Chinese             3           10        10          9         5       34
experts             4                      7          7                 14
5          75        75         75        75      300
6                                         60       60
SUBTOT        85         92        91      '140       408    Chinese
Foreign             3          170       170        85         85      510
experts             4                     85        85                 170
5          85        85         85        85      340
SUBTOT       255        340       255       1170    1,020    Foreign
Personnel           1            7        49          7         7       70
training            3           72        25         72        25      194
4           5                                        5
5           5                                       5
SUBTOT         89        74        79        32       274    Personnel
Equipment           2           50                                      50
3         570        39                           609
4                    40                            40
5                     50                           50
SUBTOT       620        129         0         0       749    Equipment
Black spot          3        484.4      968.8   1,453.2   1,937.6    4,844    Black spot
implementation  (Division     10 %      20 %      30 %      40 %)
GRAND TOTAL                 1,663.4   1,773.8   2,048.2   2,399.6    7,885            _
Distribution of costs by item
Item       1998      1999      2000      2001      Total          Item
COSTS BY            1           37        79        37         37      190       Leading group
ITEMS               2           80         0         0          0       80      Acc.analysis
3      1,326.4   1,252.8   1,659.2   2,092.6  6,331.0       Black spot
4           5        182       142         0      329       Manual
5         215       260        210       210      895       Effect study
6           0          0         0        60       60       Evaluation
TOTAL    1,663.4   1,773.8   2,048.2   2,399.6    7,885            _     _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 49
Country: China                                                Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 5: Table 2: Implementation costs by year in Gansu
Distribution of costs by year of implementation                  Costs in 1000 Yuan
Type of use         Item       Year 1      Year 2     Year 3       Year 4      Total
Personnel          1             30         30          30          30          120
2            30                                             30
3            20          40         40          40           140
4            50          50         50                       150
5            10          10         10          10          40
SUBTOT       140         130        130         80          480         Personnel
Chinese             3            10          10         9           5           34
experts             4                        7          7                        14
5            14          14         14          14          56
6                                               60          60
SUBTOT       24          31         30          79           164        Chinese
Foreign             3            170         170        85          85           510
experts             4                        85         85                       170
5            0           0          0           0           0
SUBTOT       170         255        170         85          680         Foreign
Personnel           1            7           49         7           7            70
training            2            8           7          0           0            15
3            72          25         72          25           194
4            7                                               7
5            6.5         50         5           5           66.5
SUBTOT       100.5       131        84          37          352.5       Personnel
Equipment           2            50                                              50
3            570         39                                 609
4                        40                                 40
5                                                           0
SUBTOT       620         79         0           0           699         Equipment
Black spot          3            509.5       1018.9     1528.4      2037.8      5094.5      Black spot
implementation      (Division    10 %        20 %       30 %        40 %)
GRAND TOTAL                      1563.95    1644.9      1942.35     2318.8      7470        GRAND
TOTAL
Distribution of costs by item
Item        1998        1999       2000         2001       Total        Item
COSTS BY            1            37          79         37          37           190        Leading group
ITEMS              2             88          7          0           0           95          Acc.analysis
3            1351.5      1302.9     1734.4      2192.8      6581.5      Blackspot
4            57          182        142         0           381         Manual
5            30.5        74         29          29           162.5      Audit
procedures
6            0           0          0           60          60          Evaluation
TOTAL        1563.95    1644.9      1942.35     2318.8      7470        TOTAL



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 50
Country: China                                            Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-F'E-45788)
Annex 5: Table 3: Implementation costs by year in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.
Distribution of costs by year of implementation                   Costs in 1000 Yuan
Type of use        Item        Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4    Total
Institutional      1           60         60          60         60        240
strengthening      2           10                                          10
3          20         40          40         40        140
4          20         20          20                   60
SUBTOT    110         120         120        100       450        Institutional
Chinese            3           10         10          9          5         34
experts            4           4          5           5                    14
5                                            19        19
SUBTOT    14          15          14         24        67         Chinese
Foreign            3           170        170         85         85        510
experts            4           60         60          50                   170
SUBTOT    230         230         135        85        680        Foreign
Personnel          1           4.55       54.52       4.55       4.55      68.17
training           3           73.42      23.45       73.42      23.45     193.73
SUBTOT    77.97       77.97       77.97      27.99     261.90     Personnel
Equipment          3           540        64                               604
4          35                                          35
SUBTOT    575         64          0          0         639        Equipmient
Black spot         3           205.21     410.42      615.63     820.84    2052.10    Black spot
implementation     (Division    10 %      20 %        30 %       40 %)
GRANDTOTAL                     1212.18    917.39      962.60     1057.84   4150       GRAND
TOTAL
Distribution of costs by item
Item       1998       1999        2000       2001      Total      Item
COSTS BY           1           64.55      114.52      64.55      64.55     308.17     Leading
group
ITEMS              2           10         0           0          0         10        Acc.analysis
3          1018.62    717.87      823.05     974.29    3533.8     Black spot
4           119       85          75         0         279        Manual
5          0          0           0          19        19         Evaluation
TOTAL      1212.18    917.39      962.60     1057.84   4150       TOTAL



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 51
Country: China                                               Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 5: Table 4: Implementation costs by year in all the three provinces, Inner Mongolia, Gansu,
and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region together
Distribution of costs by year of                       Costs in 1000 Yuan
implementation
Type of use     Item        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4       Total
Institutional   1              120       120       120        120       480
strengthening    2              70         0         0          0        70
3               60       120       120       120        420
4               70       120       120          0       310
5              60         60        60        60        240
SUBTOT        380        420       420       300       1520   Institutional
Chinese         3               30        30        27         15       102
experts         4                4        19        19          0        42
5               89        89        89        89        356
6                0         0         0        139       139
SUBTOT         123       138       135       243        639    Chinese
Foreign         3             510        510       255       255       1530
experts         4               60       230       220          0       510
5               85        85        85        85        340
SUBTOT        655        825       560       340       2380    Foreign
Personnel       1               19       153        19         19       208
training        2                8         7         0          0         15
3             217         73       217        73        582
4               12         0         0          0        12
5               12        50         5          5        72
SUBTOT        267        283       241        97        888    Personnel
Equipment      2               100         0         0         0        100
3            1680        142         0         0       1822
4               35        80         0          0       115
5                0        50         0          0        50
SUBTOT       1815        272         0          0      2087    Equipment
Black spot      3            1199       2398      3597      4796      11991    Black spot
implementation   (Division =    10 %      20 %      30 %      40 %)
GRAND TOTAL                  4440       4336      4953      5776      19505    GRAND TOTAL
Distribution of costs by item
Item        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4       Total   Item
COSTS BY        1              139       273       139        139       688    Leading group
ITEMS           2              178         7         0          0       185    Acc.analysis
3            3696       3274      4217      5260      16446    Black spot
4              181       449       359          0       989    Manual
5             246        334       239       239       1058    Audit/Eng.study
6                0         0         0       139        139    Evaluation
TOTAL        4440       4336      4953      5776      19505    TOTAL



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 52
Country: China                                                Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PI-45788)
Annex 5: Table 5: Implementation schedule by item in Inner Mongolia province.
ACTIONS BY ITEM              Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4
1. Safety Leading Group estabi.  x........... ........................ ............
1. High level safety group active  ... x...x...x  ...x... x...x  ...x ...x .. .x  ... x ...x ...x
1. Traffic safety secretariat active    xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
2. Accident data from police     ..x .........  ............ ........    ............
2. Accident analyses             ..xxxxxxxxxx xx .......... ............ ............
2. Reports                       ....      .x........  ............
3. Black spot work active        xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Black spot implementation     .......... .... x   ...x.x . x.x.x.x.x.x. xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Reports                       ..x .    x . ..        x x . ..      x x . .. x     x
4. Traffic safety manual work active ............ xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx.  ............
4. Reports                       ............ .. x......  x...x .        .... X...........
5. Safety audit work active      xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
5. Reports                       ..x ..x. x.        x.    x .x .        x.     x ...  .x
6. Evaluation  work active       ............    ............               ..   ... ..
6. Report  ..... .. x.x
Annex 5:Table 6: Implementation schedule by item in Gansu province
ACTIONS BY ITEM                     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4
1. Safety Leading Group estabi.  x........... ........................ ............
1. High level safety group active  ..x..x..x..x  ..x..x..x..x  ..x..x..x..x  ..x..x..x..x
1. Traffic safety secretariat active    xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
2. Accident data from police     ... x........ ............      ........ ............
2. Accident analyses             ... xxxxxxxxx xxx ......... ............ ............
2. Reports                       ..... . xx. x.x ..x.. ......... ..  ..
3. Black spot work active        xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Black spot implementation     .......... X. x .  X ...x x. x.x.x.x.x.x. xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Reports                       ..x x.... x.. . .. ....x             x    ... x  x
4. Traffic safety manual work active   xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx. . xx  ...
4. Reports                       ..x.     x... .x        .. .x   ...x...x..x ........
5. Safety audit work active      xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
5. Reports                       ..x ..x. x.x .           x .     x ... x      x .
6. Evaluation work active                             .....  xxx..
6.  Report                       ............ J    ............  I............  I.........    .x



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 53
Country: China                                                  Project Title: TN-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 5: Table 7: Implementation schedule by item in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
ACTIONS BY ITEM                       Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4
1. Safety Leading Group estabi.   x........... ........................ ............
1. High level safety group active  ...x...x...x  ...x...x... x  ...x... . . x  ... x... x. ..x
1. Traffic safety secretariat active  xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
2. Accident data from police      ... x........ ............  ........    ............
2. Accident analyses              ... xxxxxxxxx xxx ......... ............ ............
2. Reports                         ..... ..x..x    . .................... ............
3. Black spot work active         xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Black spot implementation      .......... X. x ...X.  x. x.x.x.x.x.x. xxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Reports                        ..x . x..X .x.   x.X ...  x..
4. Traffic safety manual work active ............ xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx.  ............
4. Reports                         ............ .. .....       .      ....  xx ...x.x.x.
6. Evaluation work active                                   .       .        .     xxx..
6. Report   ..                                                              . .. x.x



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 54
Country: China                                                  Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-Pl-45788)
Annex 6-a
Estimated Project Costs, All Three Provinces (4)
February 1998 Prices ($1.00 = Y8.3)
Local     Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total   Foreign Costs
Project Component               -Y million                -     ---      US $ million-----  % of Total
A. Works
Main Highways Civil Works ()  2079.8       1387.4   3467.2    250.6   167.1    417.7    40.0
Main Highways Electrical and     18.2        54.6      72.8       2.1      6.7       8.8    75.0
Mechanical Works (2)
RIPA                           274.6                  274.6      33.0               33.0
Accident Black Spots             12.0                  12.0        1.5                1.5
Subtotal                        2384.6       1442.0   3826.6    287.2   173.8    461.0    37.7
B. Supervision of Construction    75.8         49.8     125.6       9.0      6.0      15.0    39.6
C. Equipment(3)                  104.6        101.0    205.6       12.5    12.3       24.8    49.1
D. Training/Technical Assistance   6.5         24.7      31.2       0.8      3.0       3.8    79.2
Total Base Cost                 2571.5       1617.5   4189.0    309.5   195.1    504.6         38.6
Physical Contingencies         246.2        148.9    395.1       29.7     17.9      47.6    37.7
Price Contingencies            408.6        219.7    628.3       49.2    26.4       75.6    35.0
Land Acquisition and Resettlement    256.8              256.8      30.9               30.9
Total Project Cost      3483.1       1986.1   5469.2    419.3   239.4    658.7    216.3
(1) Does not include Y106.9 million in taxes and duties.
(2) Does not include Y4.7 million in taxes and duties.
(3) Does not include Y39 million in taxes and duties.
(4) Does not include interest and commitment charges on Bank's Loan during construction, estimated at about Y438 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 55
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 6-b
Estimated Project Costs , Inner Mongolia (5)
February 1998 Prices: ($1.00 = Y 8.30)
Project Component             Local       Foreign       Total      Local      Foreign      Total
------------Y million---------------  -------------US $ million--------
A. Works
BDH
Civil Works (1)                      646.7       431.1        1077.8      77.9      51.9        129.8
Traffic Engineering (2)                4.6         13.8         18.4       0.5        1.7         2.2
Subtotal                              651.3        444.9       1096.2      78.4       53.6        132.0
BFH (3)                               171.3        115.2        286.5      20.7       13.8         34.5
RIPA                                  110.7                     110.7      13.3                    13.3
Accident Black Spots                    4.8                       4.8       0.6                     0.6
Subtotal                              938.1        560.1       1498.2    113.0        67.4        180.4
B. Construction Supervision
BDH, BFH                               26.7         16.8         43.5       3.2        2.0          5.2
RIPA                                    2.4                       2.4       0.3                     0.3
Subtotal                               29.1         16.8         45.9       3.5        2.0          5.5
C. Equipment (4)                       58.2         18.6         76.8       7.0        2.3          9.3
D. Training/TA                          2.4         11.6          14.0      0.3        1.4          1.7
Total Baseline Cost                  1027.8        607.1       1634.9    123.8        73.1        196.9
Contingencies
Physical                             96.7         57.7        154.4      11.7        6.9         18.6
Price                               159.5         85.7        245.2      19.2       10.3        29.5
Subtotal                              256.2        143.4        399.6      30.9       17.2         48.1
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
BDH                                    55.8                      55.8       6.7                     6.7
BFH                                    22.3                      22.3       2.7                     2.7
RIPA                                    2.5                       2.5       0.3                     0.3
Subtotal                               80.6                      80.6       9.7                     9.7
Total Project Cost           1364.6        750.5        2115.1    164.4       90.3        254.7
(1)  Does not include Y34.7 million in taxes.
(2) Does not include YO.4 million in taxes and duties.
(3) Does not include Y7.9 million in taxes.
(4) Does not include Y7.9 million in taxes and duties.
(5) Does not include interest and commitment charges on Bank's loan estimated at about Y 119.0 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               PFage 56
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 6-c
Estimated Project Costs, Gansu (6)
February 1998 Prices: ($1.00 = Y 8.30)
Project Component            Local    Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign       Total
------------------Y million-----------   ------------------US $ million------
A. Works
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway
Civil Works (1)                     492.4    328.3       820.7      59.3         39.6       98.9
E & M (2)                            11.2     33.5        44.7       1.3          4.1        5.4
Subtotal                              503.6    361.8       865.4      60.6         43.7       104.3
Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway (XJH)
Civil Works (3)                       259.9    173.2       433.1      31.3         20.9        52.2
RIPA (4)                              122.0                122.0       14.7                    14.7
Accident Black Spots                    5.1                  5.1        0.6                     0.6
Subtotal                              890.6    535.0       1425.6    107.2         64.6       171.8
B. Construction Supervision
LZE and XJH                            27.0     16.6        43.6       3.2          2.0         5.2
RIPA                                    2.6                  2.6       0.3                      0.3
Subtotal                               29.6     16.6        46.2       3.5          2.0         5.5
C. Equipment (5)                       24.5     61.3        85.8       2.9          7.4        10.3
D. Training/TA                          1.5      6.9         8.4       0.2          0.8         1.0
Total Baseline Cost                   946.2    619.8      1566.0    113.8          74.8       188.6
Contingencies
Physical                             92.2     54.9       147.1      11.1          6.6       17.7
Price                               152.7     82.2       234.9      18.4          9.9       28.3
Subtotal                              244.9    137.1       382.0      29.5         16.5       46.0
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
LZE                                   105.5                105.5      12.7                     12.7
XJH                                    30.8                 30.8       3.7                     3.7
RIPA                                   21.1                 21.1       2.5                     2.5
Subtotal                              157.4                157.4       18.9                    18.9
Total Project Cost            1348.5    756.9      2105.4    162.2          91.3      253.5
(1) Does not include Y26.1 million in taxes.
(2) Does not include Y1.3 million in taxes and duties.
(3) Does not include Y13.0 million in taxes.
(4) Does not include Y5.3 million in taxes and duties.
(5) Does not include Y32.0 million in taxes and duties.
(6) Excludes interest and commitment charges on Bank's loan estimated at about Y254 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 57
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 6-d
Estimated Project Costs, Ningxia (5)
February 1998 Prices: ($1.00 = Y 8.30)
Project Component             Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
-----------Y million------------   ------------US $ million----- ----
A. Works
Guyaozi Wangquanliang Highway
Civil Works (1)                      337.3      224.8    562.1      40.6       27.1      67.7
Electrical and Mechanical (2)          2.4         7.3       9.7      0.3       0.9       1.2
Subtotal                               339.7      232.1     571.8    40.9       28.0.      68.9
Yanchi-Xingren Highway (YXH) (3)       172.2      114.8    287.0    20.8        13.8       34.6
RIPA                                    41.9                 41.9      5.0                  5.0
Accident Black Spots                     2.1                  2.1      0.3                  0.3
Subtotal                               555.9      346.9    902.8    67.0        41.8      108.8
B. Construction Supervision
GWH and YXH                             16.2       16.4      32.6      1.9       2.0       3.9
RIPA                                     0.9                  0.9      0.1                  0.1
Subtotal                                17.1       16.4      33.5      2.0       2.0        4.0
C. Equipment (4)                        21.9       21.1      43.0      2.6       2.6        5.2
D. Training/TA                           2.6        6.2       8.8      0.3       0.8        1.1
Total Baseline Cost                    597.5      390.6    988.1      71.9      47.2      119.1
Contingencies
Physical                             57.3        36.3      93.6      6.9       4.4       11.3
Price                                96.4        51.8    148.2      11.6       6.2      17.8
Subtotal                               153.7       88.1    241.8      18.5      10.6      29.1
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
GWH                                     12.4                 12.4      1.5                  1.5
YXH                                      6.0                  6.0      0.7                  0.7
RIPA                                     0.4                  0.4      0.1                 0.1
Subtotal                                18.8                 18.8      2.3                 2.3
Total Project Cost             770.0       478.7   1248.7    92.7        57.8     150.5
(1) Does not include Y16.6 million in taxes.
(2) Does not include Y3.0 million in taxes and duties.
(3) Does not include Y8.6 million in taxes..
(4) Does not include Y7.7 million in taxes and duties.
(5) Does not include interest and commitment charges on Bank's loan estimated at about Y65 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 58
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 7-a
Financing Plan, All Three Provinces
($ million)
Three         Central        World Bank      Total
Provinces    Government
A. Works
Main Highways - Civil Works        76.8           166.5          174.4          417.7
Main Highways - Electrical and      2.1                            6.7            8.8
Mechanical Works
RIPA                               31.8             1.2                          33.0
Accident Black Spots                 1.1            0.4                           1.5
Subtotal                             111.8          168.1          181.1          461.0
B. Supervision of Construction         8.4            0.6            6.0           15.0
C. Equipment                          12.5                          12.3           24.8
D. Training/Technical Assistance       0.6            0.2            3.0            3.8
Contingencies                         87.7            7.9           27.6          123.2
Land Acquisition and Resettlement     30.9                                         30.9
Project Total                 251.9          176.8          230.0          658.7
Percent of Total               38.2           26.9           34.9          100.0
Annex 7-b
Financing Plan, Inner Mongolia
($ million)
Component                      Inner         Central     World Bank   Total
Mongolia     Government
A. Works
Civil Works of BDH                            47.2            32.9      49.7        129.8
Electrical and Mechanical Works of BDH         0.5                       1.7          2.2
Civil Works of BFH                             1.4            19.8      13.3         34.5
RIPA                                          13.3                                   13.3
Accident Black Spots                           0.2              0.4                   0.6
Subtotal                                         62.6            53.1     64.7         180.4
B. Construction Supervision                       2.9             0.6      2.0           5.5
C. Equipment                                      7.0                      2.3           9.3
D. Training/Technical Assistance                  0.1             0.2       1.4          1.7
Contingencies                                    30.6             7.9      9.6          48.1
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                 9.7                                    9.7
Total Cost                               112.9            61.8     80.0         254.7
Percent of Total                         44.3             24.3     31.4         100.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 59
Country: China                                    Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 7-c
Financing Plan, Gansu
($ million)
Component               Gansu         Central       World       Total
Government      Bank
A. Works
Civil Works of LZE                  15.7            34.9        48.3       98.9
E&M                                  1.3             -           4.1        5.4
Civil Works of XJH                  9.9             16.9        25.4       52.2
RIPA                                14.7                                   14.7
Accident Black Spots                 0.6                                    0.6
Subtotal                           42.2             51.8        77.8      171.8
C. Construction Supervision         3.5                          2.0        5.5
D. Equipment                         2.9                         7.4       10.3
E. Training/ Technical Assistance    0.2                         0.8        1.0
Contingencies                      34.0                         12.0       46.0
Land Acquisition and Resettlement   18.9                                   18.9
Total Cost                  101.7             51.8       100.0      253.5
Percent of Total             40.1             20.4        39.5      100.0
Annex 7-d
Financing Plan, Ningxia
($ million)
Component               Ningxia       Central      World Bank  Total
Government
A. Works
Civil Works of GWH                    1.2            41.6        24.9       67.7
E & M Works of GWH                    0.3              -          0.9        1.2
Civil Works of YXH                    1.4            20.4         12.8      34.6
RIPA                                  3.8             1.2                    5.0
Accident Black Spots                  0.3                                    0.3
Subtotal                              7.0            63.2        38.6      108.8
C. Construction Supervision           2.0                         2.0        4.0
D. Equipment                          2.6                         2.6        5.2
E. Training/ Technical Assistance     0.3                         0.8        1.1
Contingencies                        23.1                         6.0      29.1
Land Acquisition and Resettlement     2.3                                    2.3
Total Cost                     37.3            63.2        50.0      150.5
Percent of Total               24.8            42.0        33.2      100.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 60
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 8
Implementation Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
This annex presents the implementation program for the various components of the project in
each of the three provinces. Table I summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as a
whole. Table 2 shows the implementation schedule for the main highways* (two in each province) ancd the
linking road to Luighouhe- Zhonghe Expressway in Gansu; administration and maintenance buildings, and
service areas; and electrical and mechanical works. Table 3 depicts the detailed implementation schedule for
the supervision of construction of the 6 main highways.
These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well as for
preconstruction activities such as preparation of designs and bid documents, prequalification process, bidding
process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and signing of contracts. Detailed schedules of these works are
available in the project files (Procurement report for each province, the PIP for each province, Traffic
Engineering Report for each Province, Equipment report for each Province and the Institutional
Strengthening and Training Report for each province). Also, some additional details regarding
implementation are available in the annexes to this report dealing with RIPA (Annex 3) and safety (Annex 5).
*The main highways and their abbreviated names are:
Ningxia:
* Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway (GWH)
* Yanchi-Xingren Highway (YXH)
Inner Mongolia:
* Baotou-Dongsheng Highway (BDH)
* Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway (BFH)
Gansu:
* Luigouhe-Zonghe Expressway (LZE)
* Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway (XJH)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                    Page 61
Country: China                                                                                                                   Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 8, Table 1: Implementation Schedule
1998                   1999               2000                2001                2002                2003                       2004
Ql      Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3 Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3                                   Q4
GPN*
Works                               01/16/98
1. Main highways
- Civil Works - roads &                        Con racts 5-6 YXH, Ninm xia
bridges                         |     |M 1MIIMIFIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIII I                         -
GWH in Nir gxia, BFH in Inner 1ongolia
Co tracts 7-9 YXH in N ngxia, BDH in Inner Mongolia and LZE +d XJH in Gansu
- Civil Works - buildings
and service areas
Bl H in Inner Mongoli4 and LZE and XJH i , Gansu
- Design, Supply and Install                                                                     BDH in Inner 14ongolia and LZE ar d XJH in Gansu
electrical and mechanical                                                                                       ___________________
2. RIPA
- First-year package                 lillO          _                                        3
- Second-year package                                                             IJ
- Third-year package                                             III                              _Evuation
3. Road Accident Black Spots                               _                                 =                                   -  ____
Supervision of Construction        ,Inr'Al ..t f
of Main Highways                                                         _____________--
Procurement of Equipment                                                               ,
- Operation and maintenance of                                                         |     Illil IlI1
main highwaysI--
- Other equipment                                 I                       .     i.ilIlIlIi,IIIIll
Environmental and upervision      N4aintenance, Other Equi ment
Training                                                                   -:__
Highway Safety                                                _ _ _     _                           - -                             ___
Prequalification/preparation of bidding documents/TOR  BDH: Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner Mongolia     GWH: Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway
IilIIIIIWIIIIII  Bidding process/competition among consultants  BFH: Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway in Inner Mongolia  YXH: Yanchi-Xingren Highway
Construction/supervision/delivery/execution of studies  LZE: Lingouhe-Zhonghe Expressway in Gansu
Defects liability period                            XJH: Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway in Gansu
[=|   Training/technical assistance/roadway safety



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Pagei 62
Country: China                                                     Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 8: Table 2: Implementation Schedule for Construction of Main Highways
A. Civil Works (6 Main Highways ICB plus linking road to Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway in Gansu (NCB)
Prequalification Stage              All 6 Main Highways Except Contracts 7-9   Contracts 7-9 of YXH in Ningxia
of Yanchi-Xingren Hi2hwav in Nin2xia
Publication of GPN in UN Development Business         January 16, 1998                        January 16, 1998
Preparation of PQ Documents                           February 28, 1998                       January 31, 2000
No Objection to PQ Documents by Bank                  March 15, 1998                          March 1, 2000
PQ Advertisement in China                             March 31, 1998                          March 31, 2000
Deadline to Submit PQ Applications                    May 31, 1998                            May 31, 2000
PQ Evaluation Report and Govemment Review             June 30, 1998                           June 30, 2000
Bank Review and No Objection to PQ Evaluation Report  July 31, 1998                          July 31, 2000
Bidding and Evaluation Stage
Preparation and Review of bid Documents by            June 30, 1998                          May 31, 2000
Wilbur Smith & Associates
Bank Review and no Objection to Bid Documents         July 31, 1998                          July 31, 2000
Sell Bid Documents to Prequalified Contractors        August 1, 1998                         August 1, 2000
Last Date to Receive Bids                             October 15, 1998                       October 15, 2000
Bid Evaluation Report and Govemment Review            November 15, 1998                      November 15, 2000
Bank review and No Objection to Evaluation Report     December 20, 1998                      December 20, 2000
Negotiate and Sign Contracts                          January 15, 1999                        January 15, 2001
Start Construction                                    March 1, 1999                          March 1, 2001
Complete Construction and Start                       November 30, 2000 for Contracts        November 30, 2002
Defects Liability Period                              5-6 of YXH in Ningxia;
Nov. 30, 2001 for GWH in Ningxia and
BFH in Inner Mongolia;
Nov. 1, 2002 for BDH in Inner Mongolia
and LZE and XJH in Gansu
End of Defects Liability Period                       November 30, 2001 for contracts 5-6    November 30, 2003
of YXH in Ningxia;
November 1, 2002 for GWH in Ningxia
and BFH in Inner Mongolia;
November 1, 2003 for BDHin
Inner Mongolia and LZE and XJH in Gansu.
B. Administration and Maintenance Buildings, Service Areas, Toll Plazas (NCB)
Inner Mongolia, Gansu                       GWH in Ningxia
Complete Preparation of Bid Documents                 March 31, 1999                         March 31, 2000
Bank review and No Objection of Bid Documents         April 30, 1999                         April 30, 2000
(for prior review only)
Invite Bids                                           May 1, 1999                            May 1, 2000
Last Date to Receive Bids                             July 1, 1999                           July 1, 2000
Bid Evaluation Report and Govemment Review            August 1, 1999                         August 1, 2000
Bank Review and No Objection to Bid Evaluation        October 31, 1999                       October 31, 2000
Report (for Prior Review Only)
Negotiate and Sign Contracts                          December 15, 1999                      December 15, 2000
Start Construction                                    March 1, 2000                          March 1, 2001
Complete Construction and Start of Defects Liability Period    November 1, 2002              November 30, 2001
End of Defects Liability Period                       November 30, 2003                      November 30, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 63
Country: China                                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 8: Table 2: Implementation Schedule for Construction of Main Highways
C. Electrical and Mechanical Works (ICB)              BDH in Inner Moneolia   LZE and XJH in Gansu   GWH in Ningxia
Finalize bid documents and submit to Bank             March 1,2001             Nov 1,2000               October 31, 1999
No Objection to bid documents by Bank                 April 30, 2001           Dec 31. 2000             January 15, 2000
Issue Bid Documents                                   May 15, 2001             Jan 15, 2001             February 1, 2000
Last Date to Receive Bids                             August 15, 2001          April 15, 2001           April 1, 2000
Bid Evaluation Report and Government Review           November 15, 2001        July 15, 2001            June 1, 2000
Bank Review and No Objection to Bid Evaluation Report   January 31, 2002       Sept 30, 2001            July 1, 2000
Negotiate and Sign Contract                           March 15, 2002           Nov 15, 2001             July 31, 2000
Establish Letter of Credit                            May 1, 2002              Jan 1, 2002              Start construction
Joint Design                                          June 30, 2002            Feb 28, 2002             on September 1, 2000
Manufacture and Purchase of Equipment                 October 1, 2002          June 1, 2002
Transport of Equipment to Site                        January 15, 2003         Sept 15, 2002
Installation and Commissioning                        May 31, 2003             Jan 31, 2003
Trial-Run of Systems                                  October 31, 2003         June 30, 2003
Completion and Start of Defects Liability Period      November 1, 2003         July 1, 2003             November 30, 2001
End of Defects Liability Period                       November 1, 2004         July 1, 2004             November 30, 2002
Annex 8: Table 3: Implementation Schedule for Supervision of Construction of Main Highways
Submittal of Letter of Invitation, TOR and Short List of Consultants to Bank         May 15, 1998
Bank Review and No Objection to LOI, TOR and Short List                              June 15, 1998
Issue LOI and TOR to Short Listed Consultants                                        June 18, 1998
Last Date to Receive Proposals                                                       August 15, 1998
Complete Evaluation Report of Technical Proposals and Approval of Government         September 15, 1998
Bank Review and No Objection to Report on Technical Evaluation                       October 15, 1998
Open Financial Proposals in Public                                                   November 7, 1998
Complete Financial Evaluation and Submit Overall Evaluation Report to Bank           November 22, 1998
Bank Review and no Objection to Overall Evaluation Report                            January 7, 1999
Negotiate and Sign Contract                                                          January 10, 1999
Train Local Supervision Staff                                                        February 28, 1999
Start Supervision of Construction                                                    March 1, 1999
Complete Supervision of Civil Works Construction (1)                                 November 1, 2002
Complete Supervision of Electrical and Mechanical Works (2)                          November 1, 2003
(1) Supervision of Construction of Civil Works (Excluding Defects Liability period) will be substantially completed by November 1,
2000 for Contracts 5-6 of YXH in Ningxia, Nov. 30, 2002 for Contracts 7-9 of YXH in Ningxia BDH in November 1, 2001 for GWH
in Ningxia and BFH in Inner Mongolia; and Nov 1, 2002 for BDH in Inner Mongolia and LZE and XJH in Gansu.
(2) Supervision of Design, Supply and Installation of Electrical and Mechanical works (excluding defects liability period) is expected to
be substantially completed by Nov. 1, 2002 for GWH in Ningxia and July 1, 2003 for LZE and XJH in Gansu, and Nov 1, 2003 for
BDH in Inner Mongolia.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 64
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 9
Economic and Financial Evaluation
Method of evaluation of benefits
1.    The economic benefits of all six highways included in the civil works component of the project
and which account for approximately 85 per cent of the total project costs, have been measured by
estimates of the savings in vehicle operating costs and time savings to vehicle occupants. This method of
measuring benefits is appropriate where the existing highway is, or likely to become, congested or whe.re
the new highway offers a significant advantage in terms of quality and time of travel or savings in travel
distances. These conditions apply to four of the six highways. No benefits were attributed to the
additional economic growth that might occur as a consequence of implementing the project.
2.     The evaluation method was based on a three stage modeling approach (trip generation, route
assignment and evaluation). The usual third stage, modal split, was omitted as there was no viable
alternative mode for most of the products transported, although for the Baotou to Dongshen highway
some adjustments were made for the lack of railway capacity if the highway were not to be constructed.
Each of the six sub-projects was evaluated independently of each other since there will not be any
significant interaction between them. Project costs and economic benefits were measured in economic
terms by the application of shadow prices and the elimination of taxes and subsidies from financial costs.
The shadow prices used for casual labor and materials costs were different for each province and based
on information provided by the provincial governments (data are available in the Feasibility Studies in
the Project Files). On average, the economic costs were just under 80% of the financial costs. The
economic evaluation was carried out using both the economic rate of return on social investment (ERR)
and the net present value of costs and benefits (ENPV).
3. Two of the highways have expected economic and social benefits that are not well measured by the
standard method. The Baiyinchagan to Fengzhen highway in Inner Mongolia and the Yanchi to Xingren
highway in Ningxia both serve poor, rural communities and have a low present levels of traffic. The
benefits of these proposed improvements are improved accessibility bringing an increased potential for
agricultural and mining production, and improved access to health, education, and commercial facilities.
Measurement of this increased potential output and the impacts of improved social and commercial
accessibility is beyond the scope of the data available. Instead, a higher than average rate of traffic
growth has been assumed for the local economies in both the with and without project situations as a
simple proxy for these benefits.
4. In addition, a simplified economic and social evaluation of the first year program of RIPA projects
has been completed. The estimate of economic benefits was based on an assessment of vehicle operating
cost savings, while the social assessment took account of the number of very poor people living within
the catchment areas of the roads to be improved, estimates of the expected increase in children attending
school and people attending medical services, and the reduction in days of inaccessibility due to road
closures.
LEVEL AND TIMING OF INVESTMENT
5. For each of the six highways, a technical assessment was made of the optimum year for adding
additional road space, based on the capacity of the existing highway and projections of traffic. Where
there was doubt as to the standard of new road to be provided, an economic and financial assessment of
the alternative standards and optimum opening year was also made.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 65
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Level of tolls
6. With the exception of the Yanchi to Xingren highway, all those included in the project will be
operated as toll roads. Two objectives need to be satisfied in setting the level of toll: (a) generating
sufficient revenue to fund the amortization payments of the Bank loan (other sources of funds to finance
the project are funded from existing user charges), and; (b) not deterring potential users from the toll
road so that achievement of its economic objectives are not jeopardized. Since these are conflicting
objectives, the final level of toll must be a comprise that does not necessarily entirely satisfy either of
them. Analyses were made for each toll road of the level of diversion that might be expected from the
existing highway to the toll road at different levels of toll, the impact of that level of diversion on the
economic benefits and the ability of the revenue generated to fund the loan amortization charges.
Exogenous parameters
7. The principal exogenous parameters that could affect project benefits are: the rate of economic
growth and its impact on the demand for transport and the value of travel time savings; the propensity of
users to divert from the existing to a new highway, and; the elasticity of that propensity to the level of
tolls on the new highway. All of these parameters were tested through sensitivity analysis, with
probabilities associated with the outcomes.
Justification for investment
8. The Baotou to Dongsheng highway in Inner Mongolia connects two highly industrialized towns and
already suffers high levels of congestion. The Liugouze to Zonghe expressway in Gansu will provide a
relatively short (33km) by pass around Lanzhou (the provincial capital) and by taking out most of the
through traffic relieve the already emerging urban congestion. The MOC considers the Lanzhou is a
significant bottleneck on National Highway 312 which forms the Chinese section of the Eurasian
landbridge. The Xujiamo to Jiepaicun highway in Gansu is also part of the National Highway 312 and
the Eurasian landbridge and has traffic levels approaching its capacity. The Guyaozi to Wangquangliang
highway in Ningxia is at present a low class road (Class III)) with relatively high volumes of traffic, but
the main purpose of its upgrading is to provide an improved access between this inland and landlocked
province and the coastal provinces and Pacific ports. It will form part of the new Qingdao-Yinchuan
national highway, which when completed will provide a high-grade route more than 300 km shorter than
the existing national truck route between Xinjiang and Gansu and the northern coastal provinces and
seaports.
Method of financial evaluation
9.    The purpose of the financial evaluation is to determine whether the projected toll revenues will
be sufficient to cover the amortization charges of the Bank loan. The amortization charges were
estimated based on a standard repayment schedule for LIBOR-based single currency loans to China. The
estimates of revenues available to service the loan charges were based on the net revenue projections for
the toll roads (after allowing for maintenance and operations expenditures) to be financed through the
loans. Only the Yanchi -Xingren Highway is proposed as a toll-free highway. Since this is an existing
highway to be improved with the objective of stimulating economic growth in a poor region, with no
alternative route available, it does not satisfy the conditions for tolling. The loan amortization charges for
this highway would be covered by the revenues from existing road user charges.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 1;6
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
EVALUATION RESULTS
Level and timing of investment
An optimization of the timing and scale of investment for each of the six principal highways
included in the project was made. For two of the six highways included in the project, the optimun
opening date will already have passed when the highway opens. For three others the optimum opening
date is within a few years of that proposed. Only the Baiyinchagan-Jining highway has an optimum
opening date much later than that proposed. However, the justification for this sub-project does not comle
from the relied of traffic congestion on the existing highway, but rather from the provision of an adequate
standard of highway to rural communities without adequate access. In respect of the scale of provision of
highway, where there was only a small difference in ERR between construction of a four lane highway at
the start of the project and staged construction, preference was given to the construction in a single stage,
to realize the unquantified benefits of reduced accidents.
Level and timing of investment of principal highway sub-projects
Inner        Inner       Inner     Ningxia    Ningxia    Gansu       Gansu
Province         Mongolia     Mongolia    Mongolia
Highway           Baotou    Baiyinchagan    Jining    Yanchi    Guyaozi   Xujiamo    LiugouhIe
Dongsheng      Jining     Fengzhen   Xingren   Wang'liang  Jiepaicun    Zhonghe
Lengthkm                 103.5          54          88        250.8      93.9       64.0       33.5
Present Class           Class IIA    Class IIB    Class III   Class III   Class IIB   Class IIB
Proposed Class          CG/M          C2AO          C2         C2        M2/1      C2AO      Expressway
Present Traffic mte/day  8,851         1,136       2,480      1,587      2,750     3,231       6,190
Present Capacitymte/day  9,045        3,514        5,610      2,636      3,664     4,768       5,496
Growth rate 1997/1992   14.49%        5.09%        5.07%     7.92%      7.04%      8.13%      9.76%
2000/1997            12.44%        6.64%       5.95%      13.49%     4.16%      7.12%      4.53%
2010/2000            3.88%         6.90%       7.49%      5.56%      11.51%     9.34%      6.39%
2020/2000            2.02%         4.64%       5.31%      5.76%      6.50%      3.13%      5.54%
Year for Capacity        1998          2020        2009       2008       2003       2004       1995
Optimum opening          1998          2022        2005       2008       2003       2004       1995
Proposed opening         2001          2001        2001       2002       2001       2002       2001
Economic evaluation results
11.    The estimated overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 23.0% and the economic
net present value (ENPV) is estimated at U$ 53.8 million, with the ERRs for each of the six components
ranging from a low of 15.2% (Guyaozi to Wangquangliang) to a high of 42.5% (Yanchi to Xingren). This
last sub-project has a much higher ERR than the others since it is an improvement to an existing roacd,
with a much lower unit cost and but similar benefits per unit of traffic to the other highways. Almost half
of the total ENPV comes from one project, the Baotou to Dongsheng Highway, although it accounts for
only just over 22 per cent of the benefits.
12.    The range of uncertainty surrounding these results is very different. The project with the highest
ERR is the Yanchi to Xingren highway. It has a low sensitivity to construction risk (as it is improvement
to an existing road) but a high sensitivity to demand projections (since its benefits depend on economic
growth rather than on relief of congestion to existing traffic). The lowest ERR value (for the Guyaozi to
Wangquangliang highway) is also associated with the lowest range of uncertainty of less than 6



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 67
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
percentage points. However, all six sub-projects show an acceptable expected ERR value in excess of
12% and positive values for expected ENPV, taking account of the estimated values with different
assumptions for the three key variables (economic growth, construction cost and diversion rate to the new
road). Only the lowest rated highway has a range of ERR results that includes some unacceptable values.
The probability weighted ERR is slightly higher than the best estimate ERR at 23.2%
Summary of Economic Evaluation of six highways
Province               Highway                Best        ERR range        ENPV
estimate         %             (U$
ERR%                         million)
Inner        Baotou to Dongsheng                32.6%      22.8% to 37.6%    272.2
Mongolia      Baiyingchagan to Fengzhen         20.5%      15.0% to 27.6%     26.3
Ningxia       Yanchi to Xingren                 42.5%      25.2% to 48.5%     29.5
Guyaozi to Wangquangliang         15.2%      10.9% to 16.5%     28.4
Gansu         Xujiamo to Gulang                 21.1%      16.2% to 23.5%    126.2
Liugouhe to Zhonghe               17.0%      12.8% to 19.8%     55.9
Total                                       23.2%      18.8% to 27.0%    538.4
13.   The ERR for the first year sub-projects in the RIPA component is 15.9% with a total ENPV of
U$9.3 million. It is expected that sub-projects in later years will have similar values although the sub-
projects will be rather different, with a higher proportion of bfits unquantifiable in monetary terms. The
quantified benefits of all RIPA sub-projects represent only a small proportion of the total, the majority
coming from improved access to education and health, which can be quantified but not valued.
Summary of Economic and Social Assessment of RIPA Components
Province   Range of ERR%    Average   ENPV         Extra       Extra
ERR%       U$m      Children    people
attending attending
school     health
services
Inner       13.0% to 19.4%     16.2%       5.9
Mongolia
Gansu       9.4% to 25.1%      14.5%       2.5     128,069
Ningxia     14.8% to 15.8%     15.3%       0.9       404        642
Total     9.4% to 25.15      15.9%       9.3   _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 68
Country: China                                         Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Financial evaluation results
Well before the end of the fifteen year loan amortization period, all the projects would generate sufficient
revenue to allow the provincial governments to repay the entirety of their loans, including those parts that
are not directed to the construction of toll highways. However, during the construction period there will
be loan commitment charges to be paid when no toll revenues would be available from the project
highways. In the case of Ninxia, the toll revenues from the single toll road included in their sub-loan
would not generate enough revenue to fully fund the loan amortization payments of the entire loan unilil
2007. The loan payments during construction would have to be met from other sources. The provincial
highway accounts indicate that the revenues generated from other user charges, the Road Maintenance
Fee and Vehicle Purchase and use Fees, would be sufficient for this purpose. While the whole system of
highway user fees is currently under review, it is unlikely that any replacement system would leave the
provinces with less revenue than at present. The continuing deficit in Ninxia could also be met from the
revenues from these other charges, or it might be possible to negotiate an alternative repayment schedule
for the total loan so as to allow an alternative repayment schedule for this province that takes account of
the projected revenue stream.
Level of tolls
2.     The proposed level of tolls for each of the highways is shown below. A further study will be
made for each toll road closer to the date of opening to determine the most appropriate level taking into
consideration operation and maintenance costs. The current policy of each of the provinces is to revise
the level of tolls at infrequent intervals, whereas it would be better in several senses for the level of tolls
to be maintained in real terms (that is, allowing for inflation). These later studies of toll levels will
investigate the most appropriate frequency for toll revision. Since the impact of tolls is different for each
highway, the suitable level of tolls shows considerable variation between them.
Tolls
(US cents per vehicle km)
Highway             Cars and     Buses      Medium       Large      Average
Pick-ups                trucks      trucks
Baotou to Dongsheng
Up to 2010                   1.20        4.82        2.41       4.82        2.95
2011 to 2020                 1.81        6.02        3.61       6.02        4.01
After 2020                   2.41        7.23        4.82       7.23        5.06
Baiyinchagan to Fengzhen
Up to 2010                   1.20        4.82        2.41       4.82        2.68
2011 to2020                  1.81        6.02        3.61        3.61       3.64
After 20202                  2.41        7.23        4.82       4.82        4.61
Guyaozi to Wangquangliang
Up to 2010                   2.71        3.61        4.52        7.23       4.11
2011 to 2020                 3.61        4.82        6.02        8.43       5.36
After 20202                  4.52        6.02        7.53       9.64        6.61
Xujiamo to Gulang
Up to 2010                   2.77        5.42        2.41       4.82        2.95
2011 to 2020                 3.37        6.63        3.61        6.02       4.01
After 20202                  3.37        6.63        4.82       7.23        5.06
Liugouhe to Zhonghe
Up to 2010                   3.25        6.39        6.39        16.14      6.58
2011 to2020                  4.10        8.19        8.19       20.60       8.41
After 2020                   5.30        10.48       10.48       26.27       10.77



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 69
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Tables A and B: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in Table A-a for the project as a
whole (all three provinces), Table A-b for the Inner Mongolia part of the project, Table A-c for the
Gansu part and Table A-d for the Ningxia part. The procurement arrangements for the project have taken
into account the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995", and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 as well as the experience gained
from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documentation, for procurement, which covers the
prequalification of contractors, ICB and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil works, ICB for
goods, and consultant services contracts has been standardized for Chinese conditions in cooperation
between the Chinese government and the Bank on the basis of model documents which would be used for
all relevant procurement processes under the project where no model document exists, relevant Bank
standard documents would be used.
Works
The civil works for the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway (BDH) and the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen
Highway (BFH) in Inner Mongolia would be divided into 6 contract sections and 3 contract sections
respectively. The electrical and mechanical works for BDH (with the exception of power supply) would
be bid later during construction as one contract. All of the above 10 contracts with a total cost of about
$200.9 million would be procured under ICB procedures.
The civil works for each of the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (LZE) and the Xujiamo-
Jiepaicun Highway (XJH) in Gansu would be divided into 3 contract sections. The electrical and
mechanical works (tolling, telecommunications, traffic monitoring) would be bid later during
construction as one contract. All of the above 7 contracts with a total cost of about $167.6 million would
be procured under ICB procedures.
The civil works for the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway (GWH) and the Yanchi-Xingren
Highway (YXH) would be divided into 4 and 5 contract sections respectively. The toll system for GWH
would be bid later during construction as one contract. All of these 10 contracts with a total cost of about
$126.1 million would be procured under ICB procedures. The total cost of works (civil and electrical
and mechanical) to be procured through ICB procedures in all three provinces is estimated at about
$494.6 million.
The above contracts for the civil works in each province would be bid on a slice and package
basis; qualified firms would be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract international
contractors and large Chinese contractors. All contractors for all ICB contracts for civil works would be
prequalified. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in the UN
Development Business No. 478 on January 16, 1998. This GPN served as a specific procurement notice
for the civil works contracts and for the consulting services required for the supervision of construction
of the above-mentioned six highways which are being tendered during the first year of project
implementation. For the electrical and mechanical works for LZE in Gansu, invitation to bid would be
advertised as a specific procurement notice in the UN Development Business and/or well-known
technical magazines, newspapers, and trade publications of wide international circulation. Domestic
contractors competing under ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic
contractors are expected to be competitive for all civil works contracts under this project.
The 1.3 km Tianshuilu linking road to LZE in Gansu, including a large bridge across the Yellow
River, with an estimated cost of about $12.5 million would be bid as one contract using NCB procedures.
However, the contractors for this link would be prequalified. NCB was selected because of the short
length of this link (1.3 km) and the need to coordinate its work with the 1.8 km extension of this link to
connect with the Lanzhou street system. This extension is not a part of this project and it is to be
constructed using local funds by the City of Lanzhou.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 70
Country: China                                       Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Other works, including small service facilities (toll plazas, maintenance depots, service and rest
areas, administrative buildings, etc., estimated to cost about $20.3 million ($5.0 million in Inner
Mongolia, $11.6 million in Gansu and $3.7 million in Ningxia) would be awarded following NC]B
procedures acceptable to the Bank. These would involve contracts estimated to cost less than $3.5
million per contract and consist of: one contract for buildings, service areas and toll stations for BDH and
one contract for similar facilities for BFH in Inner Mongolia; two contracts for LZE and one contract for
XJH in Gansu; and one contract for GWH in Ningxia. Also, the contract for lighting (with a total
estimated cost of about $1.0 million) in Gansu would be awarded using NCB procedures. Since these
contracts are small in value and scattered throughout each of the three provinces and would be
implemented over a two-year period, ICB would therefore be neither justified nor practical, but foreign
firms would not be precluded from bidding.
The contract(s) for power supply at a cost of about $1.2 million in Gansu $0.9 milion in Inner
Mongolia and $0.3 million Ningxia involves works scattered along LZE, XJH, BDH and GWH. They
would be awarded by direct contracting with the local electricity companies, which are monopolies.
Since no Bank moneys would be used for RIPA or accident black spots, procurement would be
done according to local procedures. But, it was agreed that competition would be adopted. However, in
case of small value contracts, or contracts in remote areas or areas with difficult topographic conditions,
force account and direct contracting could be used.
Equipment
Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than $250,000 equivalent would
be awarded under ICB. All other items or groups of items covering minor maintenance equipment,
laboratories, highway safety, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than
$250,000 per contract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.3 million ($0.7 million for Inner
Mongolia, $1.4 million for Gansu and $0.2 million for Ningxia) would be procured following
international shopping procedures on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. These quotations should indicate the
description and quantity of goods as well as desired delivery time and place. Domestic manufactures
competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 1S
percent for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
Consultants
All consulting services will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's
Consultant Guidelines published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
Consulting services for supervision of construction of the main highways in each province (costing $2.5
million in each province, or a total cost of $7.5 million in all three provinces) would be procured on
quality and cost basis (QCBS).QCBS would also be used for contracts for training services each costingr
more than $100,000. Single source selection would be utilized for contracts related to staff training ancl
highway safety costing less than $100,000 per contract in the case of firms and less than $50,000 per
contract in the case of individuals (Table B .1 of this Annex).
Bank Review
Prior review procedures would be used for:(a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of $2
million (Y 17 million) or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than $250,000 per contract;
and (c) consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and $50,000
for individuals. In the case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of reference and single-source:
selections, regardless of the value of the contract, are subject to prior review. Prior review would apply
to about 98 percent and 87 percent of the total contract values of works and goods financed by the Bank.,
respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-review procedures would be followed
(Table B of this Annex).The sampling ratios for contracts not subject to prior review are about 50% for
civil works and 25% for goods contracts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 71
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table A-a: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (All Three Provinces)
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                    Total Cost
ICB        NCB         Other(a)    N.B.F(b)      (including
___________  _____________             contingencies)
Works
High Grade Highways Civil Works       486.8        32.8                                  519.6
(181.9)     (13.7)                                (195.6)
High Grade Highways
Electrical and Mechanical Works          7.8         1.0        2.4                        11.2
(5.8)      (0.8        (1.8)                      (8.4)
RIPA                                                                       44.0           44.0
Accident Black Spots                                                        1.9             1.9
Equipment                               13.1                    2.0        12.6           27.7
(13.1)                  (2.0)                     (15.1)
Services
Consultants and Training (c)
Supervision of Construction                                  18.0         0.9           18.9
(7.5)                      (7.5)
Training                                                      4.5                        4.5
(3.4)                      (3.4)
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                          30.9           30.9
Total                   507.7        33.8        26.9        90.3          658.7
(200.8)     (14.5)    (14.7)                      (230.0)
(a) Other includes negotiated contract, international shopping, consultants and training.
(b) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes:  (1)  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but
exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate
component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 72
Country: China                                                Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table A-b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Inner Mongolia)
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                     Total Cost
ICB       NCB       Other(a)    N           (including contingencies)
Works: High-Grade Highways
Civil Works                    198.8        5.0                                      203.8
(69.2)     (1.8)                                     (71.0)
Electrical and Mechanical        2.1                   0.9                             3.0
Works
(1.6)                (0.7)                           (2.3)
RIPA                                                               17.8               17.8
Accident Black Spots                                                0.7                0.7
Equipment                            2.0                   0.6          8.1               10.7
(2.0)                (0.6)                           (2.6)
Consultants and Training_(c)
Supervision of Construction                            6.6          0.4                7.0
(2.5)                          (2.5)
Training                                               2.0                             2.0
(1.6)                          (1.6)
Land Acquisition and                                                    9.7                9.7
Resettlement
Total              202.9       5.0       10.1         36.7              254.7
1 (72.8)      (1.8)      (5.4)                          (80.0)
(a) Other includes negotiated contract, international shopping, and consultants and training.
(b) NBF means not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amount financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but
exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate
component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 73
Country: China                                               Project Title: Tr-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table A-c: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Gansu)
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method           (b)       Total Cost
ICB         NCB       -ir           N.B.F           (including
contingencies)
Works: High Grade Highways
Civil Works                      163.1        24.1                                       141.2
(71.4)      (10.6)                                     (82.0)
Electrical and Mechanical          4.5         1.0          1.2                           6.7
Works
(3.3)       (0.8)        (0.9)                         (5.0)
RIPA                                                                      19.9             19.9
Accident Black Spots                                                       0.8              0.8
Equipment                            8.3                      1.3          2.3             11.9
(8.3)                    (1.3)                         (9.6)
Consultants and Training_(c)
Supervision of Construction                               6.5          0.4               6.9
(2.5)                         (2.5)
Training                                                  1.2                            1.2
(0.9)                         (0.9)
Land Acquisition and                                                      18.9             18.9
Resettlement
Total                     175.9        25.1          10.2         42.3            253.5
(83.0)      (11.4)        (5.6)       _ _             (100.0)
(a) Other includes negotiated contract, international shopping, and consultants and training.
(b) NBF means not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants
Notes:  (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amount financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but
exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate
component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 74
Country: China                                                Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table A-d: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Ningxia)
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                       Total Cost
ICB        NCB         Other(a)      N.B.F(b)         (including
contingencies)
Works: High Grade Highways
Civil Works                    124.9         3.7                                         128.6
(41.3)       (1.3)                                       (42.6)
Electrical and Mechanical        1.2                     0.3                               1.5
Works                             (0.9)                    (0.2)                            (1.1)
RIPA                                                                     6.3                 6.3
Accident Black Spots                                                     0.4                 0.4
Equipment
2.8                     0.1          2.2                 5.1
(2.8)                   (0.1)                            (2.9)
Consultants and Training ()                                 4.9          0.1                 5.0
Supervision of Construction                            (2.5)                             (2.5)
Training                                                1.3                               1.3
(0.9)                            (0.9)
Land Acquisition and                                                     2.3                 2.3
Resettlement
Total            128.9         3.7         6.6         11.3               150.5
l ___________________________     (45.0)       (1.3)       (3.7)     _                      (50.0)
(a) Other includes negotiated contract, international shopping, consultants and training.
(b) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but
exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate
component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 75
Country: China                                              Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Contract Value        Procurement         Contracts Subject to Prior Review
(Threshold)           Method          Estimated Total Value Subject to Prior
Review
(US $ millions)                                    (US $ millions)
Works                  More than 2.0                 ICB        27 Contracts
$494.6 million subject to prior review
More than 2.0                NCB         5 Contracts
$29.1 million subject to prior review
Goods                  More than 0.25                ICB        Contracts (')
$13.1 million subject to prior review
Services               More than 0.10 for firns     QCBS        3 Supervision Contracts $7.5 million and
More than 0.05 for                       training $3.4 million subject to prior review
individuals
Miscellaneous
Total Value of  $547.7 million
Contracts
subject to prior
review
(1) Number of contracts will be determnined at a later date, when packaging has been finalized.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 76
Country: China                                                  Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table B-1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method         Inner Mongolia         Gansu         Ningxia               Total Cost
(including contingencies3)
A. Firms
QCBS                            6.6              6.5             4.9                     18.0
(2.5)            (2.5)           (2.5)                    (7.5)
Other                           2.2              1.4              1.3                     4.9
(1.4)            (0.7)           (0.8)                    (2.9)
Subtotal                        8.8              7.9             6.2                     22.9
(3.9)            (3.2)           (3.3)                   (10.4)
B. Individuals
CQ                              0.2              0.2             0.1                      0.5
(0.2)            (0.2)           (0.1)                    (0.5)
Total Cost
Including Contingencies             9.0              8.1             6.3                     23.4
(4.1)            (3.4)           (3.4)                   (10.9)
Note: QCBS  =   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   =   Quality-based Selection
SFB    =   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS    =   Least-Cost Selection
CQ      =   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =   Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 77
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table C-a: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (All Three Provinces)
Expenditure Category                  Amount in           Financing Percentage
US$
million
Civil Works
Construction of Baotou-Dongsheng Highway in Inner         49.7    38% of total expenditures
Mongolia
Construction of Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen                     13.3    38% of total expenditures
Construction of Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway in Gansu      48.3    49% of total expenditures
Construction of Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway in Gansu        25.4    49% of total expenditures
Construction of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway in Ningxia  24.9    37% of total expenditures
Construction of Yanchi-Xingren Highway in Ningxia         12.8    37% of total expenditures
Electrical and Mechanical Works                              6.7    75% of total expenditures
Equipment                                                   12.3     1 00% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment or 100% of local
expenditures for locally manufactured
equipment or 75% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally.
Consultant Services and Training                             9.0     100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                                                 27.6
Total                 230.0
Annex 10
Table C-b: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Inner Mongolia)
Expenditure Category              Amount in              Financing Percentage
US$ million
Civil Works
Construction of Baotou-Dongsheng Highway           49.7         38% of total expenditures
Construction of Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway      13.3         38% of total expenditures
Electrical and Mechanical Works                     1.7         75% of total expenditures
Equipment                                           2.3         100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment or 100% of
local expenditures for locally
manufactured equipment or 75% of local
expenditures for other items
Consultant Services and training                    3.4        100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                                        9.6
Total                  80.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 78
Country: China                                               Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table C-c: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Gansu)
Expenditure Category               Amount in               Financing Percentage
US$million
Civil Works
Construction of Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway         48.3          49% of total expenditures
Construction of Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway           25.4          49% of total expenditures
Electrical and Mechanical Works                      4.1          75% of total expenditures
Equipment                                            7.4         100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment or 100% of local
expenditures for locally manufactured
equipment or 75% of local expenditures
for other items
Consultant Services and training                     2.8         100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                                         12.0
Total               100.0                                           =
Annex 10
Table C-d: Allocation of Loan Proceeds(Ningxia)
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million            Financing Percentage
Civil Works
Construction of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang               24.9            37% of total expenditures
Highway
Construction of Yanchi-Xingren Highway              12.8            37% of total expenditures
Electrical and Mechanical Works                      0.9            75% of total expenditures
Equipment                                            2.6            100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment or 100% of
local expenditures for locally
manufactured equipment or 75% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally.
Consultant Services and Training                     2.8            100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                                          6.0
Total                    50.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 79
Country: China                                                                                   Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 10
Table D: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$million)
Inner Mongolia                 Gansu                     Ningxia                     All Three Provinces
Bank fiscal year         Disbursement               Disbursement               Disbursement                     Disbursement
and semester       Semester     Cumulative    Semester    Cumulative     Semester    Cumulative     Semester    Cumulative        %
1999
June30, 1999/3         9.6            9.6          12.0         12.0          6.0          6.0          27.6         27.6          12
2000
December 31, 1999      8.0           17.6          10.0        22.0           5.0         11.0          23.0         50.6          22
June 30, 2000          8.8           26.4          11.0         33.0          5.5         16.5          25.3         75.9          33
2001
December 31, 2000      9.6           36.0          12.0         45.0          6.0         22.5          27.6        103.5          45
June 30,2001           9.6           45.6          12.0         57.0          6.0         28.5          27.6        131.1          57
2002
December 31, 2001      9.6           55.2          12.0         69.0          6.0         34.5          27.6        158.7          69
June 30, 2002          6.4           61.6           8.0         77.0          4.0         38.5          18.4        177.1          77
2003
December 31, 2002      4.8           66.4          6.0          83.0          3.0         41.5          13.8        190.9          83
June 30, 2003          4.8           71.2           6.0         89.0          3.0         44.5          13.8        204.7          89
2004
December 31, 2003      4.0           75.0           5.0         94.0          2.5         47.0          11.5        216.2          94
June 30, 2004          3.2           78.4          4.0          98.0          2.0         49.0           9.2        225.4          98
2005
December 31, 2004       1.6          80.0          2.0         100.0          1.0         50.0           4.6        230.0         100
3 Includes initial payment into Special Accounts and advance payments to contractors.
Notes: (1) Project Completion Date: December 31, 2004.
(2) Loan Closing Date:    June 30, 2005.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 80
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 11
Socio-economic Surveys
1.    The six main highways included under the project affect the socio-economic conditions of
communities along their alignments. These highways cut a swath through areas in Ningxia, Inner
Mongolia, and Gansu which are populated by concentrations of national ethnic minorities. The Yanchi-
Xingren Highway in Ningxia transverses a nearly 100% Hui area, while the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen
highway (NH 208) cuts across an area of Inner Mongolia where although Mongols and other minorities
(Manchu, Hui) do not comprise area-wide majorities, they nevertheless are found concentrated in some
villages along the right of way. Similarly, in Gansu, the Xujiamo-Gulang highway (NH 312) is slated to
pass through a Tibetan township and a few Hui-dominated villages. The other three highways (Baotou-
Dongsheng, NH 210, in Inner Mongolia; Guyaozi-Wangquanliang in Ningxia; and Liugouhe-Zhonghe,
NH 312, in Gansu) have only a few scattered percent of minorities along their routes. Consequently, it
was considered necessary to conduct socio-economic surveys of these minority-significant corridors.
After protracted negotiations between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance over the terms of reference
for a Chinese consulting firm to conduct socio-economic surveys along the highways' corridor of impact,
Rollins International Commercial Consulting Co., Ltd. was selected to undertake the surveys. They were
supported by an international expert on Chinese ethnic minorities. Both the TOR and the Chinese firm
and its international expert were approved by the Bank.
Selection of Sample
2.    Detailed information regarding the numbers and concentrations of minorities along all six project
highway corridors was provided by Chinese authorities. Based on the information received, a sample of
villages with minority populations, within three kilometers of the highways were included in the survey.
The number of villages in the sample were restricted to three villages in Ningxia on the Yanchi-Xingren
Highway, two villages in Gansu on the Xujiamo-Gulang Highway, and 15 villages in Inner Mongolia
along the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway.
Methodology
3.    Initial plans for methodology testing and revision could not be followed through since there was
need to get the surveys underway as soon as agreement was reached on the terms of reference for the
foreign and domestic consultants.
4.    The international expert held a briefing for Rollins team on the qualitative social science
methodologies appropriate for the Rural Rapid Assessments required by this project.
5.    Three teams of five to six researchers conducted focus groups, household case studies, individual
interviews, and administered a questionnaire survey. The international expert worked with two of tlue
three teams for a part of this duration. His involvement in the field resulted in some revision in ihe
sample originally selected in order to select villages with more representative minority population.
6.    The teams of researchers conducted focus groups and visited households where interviews and
household case studies tended to merge. Surveys similarly were intermingled with(and affected by)
focus groups and household interviews.
Survey results and reporting
7.    The surveys were completed in November '97, and provincial reports were produced
incorporating some of the comments made by the international expert on the earlier drafts. The general
report with three provincial annexes has been produced in January, 98 and the accuracy of the reports
issued by Rollins was confirmed by a social scientist of the Bank's resident mission in Beijing by
reviewing the original data sets. The Bank commented on these reports and as a consequence, Rollins
issued revised reports in March 1998 which the Bank found satisfactory.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 81
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
8.     The revised reports by Rollins emphasized the many benefits the highways would bring to the
area and stressed the support given by the local inhabitants to the road projects. A few potential negative
impacts were also mentioned.
9.     These reports raised important questions and contained a number of good suggestions for project
improvement. The Ningxia report discussed significant problems with culvert design and traffic safety
issues, as well as disclosed a problem with riverbank erosion threatening Muslim gravesites. The Inner
Mongolia reports suggested a number of minor design enhancements, such as relocating a village well,
and the Gansu reports emphasized the need for adequate and timely compensation. All negative impacts
are being addressed through design modifications, preparation of detailed resettlement action plans for
each of the highways, and other measures increased and focused efforts in highway safety education,
with emphasis on school children. Tables 1-3 of this Annex summarize the identified negative impacts as
well as the actions taken, being taken, or will be taken to ameliorate these impacts in each of the three
provinces.
10.   A common thread throughout all three provincial reports was the reported need for, and thus the
consultants recommendations for, improved highway safety, using villagers and their local resources in
road construction, and the provisioning for enhanced access to training opportunities and credit to fully
benefit from road development. Villagers were quite keen to develop roadside commerce, but often
lacked the requisite skills in vehicle and road maintenance, business management, etc., that would be
necessary. So, too, did they see themselves as disadvantaged in the search for credit to begin such
businesses. A portion of the compensation for land acquisition could be used by the villages to conduct
the required training. Since credit problems exist even without the proposed highways, the
communications departments did not think that they should finance such credit. The Bank recommended
to the concerned governments at all levels to provide the needed credit and training in order to expedite
the development of these communities.
11.   It should be pointed out that the above - mentioned recommendations apply not only to the
villages which were surveyed but to other communities and villages as well.
12.   Overall, no major problems specifically related to minority nationality issues were visible, and
most suggestions from the consultants involved resettlement issues, compensation, minor engineering
suggestions, and the need to provide training and credit opportunities.
13.   Throughout the entire period, the Ministry of Finance was an important stakeholder in guiding
the investigation and reporting process. The socio-economic surveys broadly, and seemingly accurately
uncovered the major anticipated impacts of the highways on the people in areas with significant minority
nationality populations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 82
Country: China                                                     Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 12: Table 1
Resettlelment Action Plans
Negative Impacts and Mitigation Measures in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
(Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway)
Negative Impact         Measures to be Taken (already taken), Time, Cost and Implementation Organization
1. Highway construction   (1) Part of the farmland has not been cultivated in the past few years for the lack of labor. This
will occupy some        farmland will be made up for by contracting with the villagers in time before the initiation of the
villages' farmland      highway construction. This work is expected to be finished by Nov. 1998 - Feb. 1999. Cost of
this work is included in the RAP for BFH.
(2) The county/banner and township resettlement offices will be responsible for this work.
2. A small portion of   (1) The villagers will be allowed to build their new residences near old village and the highway,
villagers will have to  the nearer the better. This work will be completed by Sep. - Dec. 1998.
move out                (2) The villagers will be compensated according to the RAP including compensation equivalent to
the replacement cost, moving allowances and transition allowances.
(3) The village committee will be responsible for this work.
3. A small portion of  (1) What needs reconstruction is a well. this well is just under the proposed road subgradle. A
living facilities will be  new well nearby will be constructed during Oct. 1998 - Feb. 1999. The estimated cost of about
reconstructed           Y30,000 is included in the preconstruction costs of civil works of BFH.
(2) This work will be carried out by the village committee and supervised by the county/banner
and township resettlement office.
4. The problem about the  (1) 67 connecting roads will be constructed between BFH and the roads to villages. The width of
connection from the    intersections will be about 10 meters and the length at least 20 meters (along village road) and the
highway to respective   gradient will not be more than 3%. This work is expected to be completed within the construction
villages needs to be    period of BFH.
solved                  (2) The expenditures have been included in the project total cost.
(3) Design has been carried out by IM Design Institute and the work will be carried out by the
civil work contractors for BFH.
5. A small portion of   (1) The temporarily occupied land for soil borrowing, material stockpiling and so on shall take
farmland will be        more low-quality farmland and land on the fills or mountains rather than high-quality farrnland.
occupied temporarily   (2) In the light of RAP, different compensation rates will be used for different lands. Cost of these
lands has already been included in the RAP.
(3) Resettlement offices of county/banner and township shall carry this work out.
6. Safety problem       (1) Traffic signs and markings will be provided along BFH at least at 24 locations including 2
school crossings; speed limit sign will be installed at least at 4 locations; and signs and markings
will be placed at a minimum of 4 high accident locations. This work will be carried out by the
civil works contractors for BFH.
(2) Existing efforts will be strengthened in traffic safety education and propaganda during the
construction stage of BFH and after its completion. This will be carried out by the
Communication Department in cooperation with the traffic police. School safety education will be
strengthened in cooperation with school authorities.
(3) The cost for these measures has been included in the total cost of BFH.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 83
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tn-Provindal Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 12: Table 2
Negative Impacts and Mitigation Measures in Gansu Province
(Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway)
General Description of Negative Impact                  Mitigation Measures
1. Due to the construction of the Highway from  Jiepaicun is located at the end point of the Xujiamo-
Xujiamo to Gulang, 2 ha. of irrigated land, 1 ha. of    Jiepaicun Highway (XJH) supported by the World
forest land and 28 households, 28.3% of the total  Bank. Land acquisition occurs only in the extension
village households, will be affected in Jiepaicun.  of the highway from Jiepaicun to Gulang, which will
Some households will lose more than 0.1 ha. of land.  be financed by domestic funds. Same policy of land
The land holding per capita will be reduced.   acquisition and compensation rates used for XJH will
be applied in the extension section from Jiepaicun to
Gulang.
2. Demolishing houses in Jiepaicun affects 4 persons   House demolishing occurs only in the extension of
in 1 household and 4 vacant factory workshops with    XJH from Jiepaicun to Gulang, which will be
an area of 85 sq.m.                            financed by domestic funds. Same policy of affected
assets and compensation policy used for XJH will be
applied to the extension of XJH between Jiepaicun
and Gulang.
3. Zhuanglang River flows at the east side of  Diversion dikes will be built on the west bank of the
Chengcheng Village in Wushengyi Township. The  Zhuanglang River. The cost of Y30,000 is included
proposed highway will be built at the east bank of the  under EIA of the project. The construction will be
River. The villagers are worried that the river water   organized by the Chengcheng Villager Committee.
in the rainy season may flood their land on the west
bank of the River.
4. Some villagers from Chengcheng Village have  An interchange will be built at the intersection of the
opened restaurants, commercial shops and repair  existing Highway 312 and XJH. This interchange is
workshops, etc. along both sides of existing National  located at a short distance (500 meters) south of the
Road 312. Those villagers are afraid of the adverse    Chengcheng Village. Also, a sign will be placed
impacts to their business, due to the diversion of  along XJH advising motorists of the services in the
vehicles to the new highway (with full control of  Chengcheng Village. These works will be carried out
access).                                       by the civil works contractor for XJH and their cost is
included in the cost estimate of XJH.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               l'age 84
Country: China                                           Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 12: Table 3
Negative Impacts and Mitigation Measures in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
(Yanchi-Xingren Highway)
Negative Impacts                     Measures to be taken, Timing for Action &
Institution for Implementation
1. Land acquisition for construction of Yanchi-Xingren  The measures for acquisition of a small amount of land
Highway (YXH) will be required.                  have been worked out and incorporated in the
Resettlement Action Plan under YXH. These mieasures
will be taken by the Resettlement Office before
contractors commence works on YXH.
2. Many villagers showed their concern about the road   Appropriate traffic signs and markings will be set up on
safety because of the increase in the speed of vehicles   both sides of Majiahewan School. This work will be
and because the school is quite close to the highway.    done by the civil works contractor. The cost is
included in the construction cost of the civil works.
Also, the traffic police in cooperation with the school
authorities will carry out intensified traffic safety
education.
3. As told by Majiahewan Villagers, a dike built on the   Ningxia Communications Department in cooperation
west bank of Qingshui River can mitigate the flood  with the Water Resources Department have conducted a
during the rainy season. However, the river may flow    study of this issue and found that under the 1 00-year
to the east bank where no dike has been built and flood  flood the fields and graves will not be inundated.
the fields and graveyard. The nearest graveyard is
about 50 meters to the east bank of the river.
4. The ditch on one side of the highway will make it  NCD will build two new culverts along the ditch to
inconvenient for Maihe Villagers to get to the highway   provide proper access to each of the natural villages.
if no sufficient access points are provided. There are    This work will be carried out under the civil works for
three natural villages under Maihe Administrative  YXH.
Village, but only one has proper access.
5. A driver from Bazhuang Village is worried about the  The at-grade intersection connecting Taiyanshari Coal
proper access leading to the coal mine.          Mine Road and YXH has been redesigned to a higher
standard. This work and its cost are included in the
cost of the civil works for YXH.
6. Two culverts under the highway near Majiahewan  The culverts along the existing road of Majiahewan
Village are silted which adversely affect the flow of  will be dismantled and reconstructed. This work will
water to irrigate the land.                      be carried out under the civil works for YXH.
7. The YXH will pass through a piece of irrigated land  An additional culvert for Maihe Village is included in
in the northwest of Maihe Village. If there is no culvert the new design and will be undertaken under the civil
under the highway, land on the other side will not be  works for YXH.
irrigated.
8. Villagers are concerned that the contractors will use   The issue of water for construction and domestic: use
their limited water supply.                      will be resolved through drilling wells or transporting
water from areas with abundant water resources. This
work is included in the design and will be carried out
under the civil works contracts for YXH.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 85
Country: China                                              Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 12
Resettlement Action Plans
A. Inner Mongolia
1.     The project components in Inner Mongolia involve the construction of two new highways, a class
I highway from Baotou to Dongsheng (the BDH highway), the Baiyincagan-Fengzhen (BFH) Class II
highway, and rural roads under the RIPA component of the project. The subcomponents of the two main
highway components are as follows:
(a)    Baotou - Dongsheng Highway
BDH highway                  -  90.4 kms
Dongsheng link road          -  2.56 kms
Dongsheng city bypass road    -  10.86 kms
Machi Link road              -  11.5 kms
(b)    Baiyincagan-Fengzhen Highway
BFH Highway                  -  142 kms
Daliuhao Link road           -  0.8 kms
Tuguiuwula link road         -  4.4 kms
Land would need to be acquired for all of these components and the affected people and properties need
to be resettled / relocated.
2.     Detailed census and socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and properties have been
conducted by the IMCD and the Inner Mongolia Communications Design and Research Institute
(IMCDRI) in collaboration with other concerned agencies and the local governments in the project area
during June-July, 1997. As a result of these surveys, precise categories of impact have been identified
and resettlement entitlement policies for each category have been established. The categories of impact
and the corresponding entitlement policies are given below:
Categories of Impact          Unit of entitlement                 Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land         PAPs; affected production teams  Compensation for land; resettlement subsidy;
redistribution of agricultural land
Affected houses           Affected PAPs                   Cash compensation at replacement cost;
transfer allowance; transition allowance
Affected enterprises      Affected Units                  Compensation equivalent to replacement cost;
compensation for loss of income during move
Other affected assets     Owners                          Compensation at replacement cost
Affected infrastructure   Affected community              Replacement of infrastructure up to the same
standard
3.     The census surveys show that the project would need to acquire 12, 499 mu of land in addition to
temporary requisition of 2870 mu of land. The land acquisition would directly impact 1728 households
(7,376 persons). Impacts on residential houses would affect an additional 1269 persons in 297
households. 23 enterprises with a workforce of 471 will also be affected for the duration of the move.
4.     Since per capita land holdings along both highways are very large and the project acquires a
small percentage of the agricultural land in the affected villages, most of the affected households can be
absorbed in agriculture through redistribution of residual farmland of the affected villages. However,
there are a few cases where land redistribution, by itself, will not suffice and some of the affected



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 86
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
households may need to be transferred to non-agriculture based economic activities. The affected
townships have provided indicative list of activities to be sponsored by them for economic rehabilitalion
of the affected households in such villages. Typical strategies are based on developing new land for
agriculture, agriculture intensification, animal husbandry, forestry and investment in enterprises. The
affected townships will be paid nine times the annual production value of affected land for financing
these activities (3 for land compensation and 6 for resettlement subsidy). Specially vulnerable groups
have also been identified and proposals to assist them during the resettlement program have been drawn
up.
5.    Though the preparation of the RAPs was coordinated by the Project Execution Office of IMCD,
implementation of the resettlement program will be carried out by the local county and township
governments. A Resettlement Leading Group, with representatives from the Provincial Planning
Committee, the Department of Communications, Department of Finance, the Bureau of Land
Administration and other concerned agencies will be formed prior to initiation of resettlement
implementation. A Project Resettlement Office, with working level staff from the above agencies will
also be formed. Actual implementation will be carried out by county and township resettlement offices,
assisted by village administrative committees. This setup was followed in the other two provinces of
Gansu and Ningxia.
6.    The costs associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The
total cost of implementing the resettlement program is estimated to be RMB 78.05 million (approx. USD
9.4 million). The cost estimates include price and physical contingencies.
7.    The RAPs include detailed implementation schedule linked to the pace of civil works
construction. Implementation of the resettlement program is proposed to be a highly participatory
exercise, along the same lines as the process adopted for preparation of the RAPs. In order to encourage
participation and ensure participatory monitoring, each affected household will be provided with a
Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB), summarizing the key features of the project and more
specifically, the resettlement program. Detailed entitlements of each household will also be
communicated to them through this booklet. Implementation of the resettlement program will also be
aided by a grievance redress procedure based on local systems for this purpose. However, if the affeci:ed
persons are dissatisfied even after exhausting the various channels of grievance redress, recourse to civil
courts is available as a last resort. These principles and procedures were also followed in Gansu and
Ningxia.
8.    IMPCD proposes to conduct both internal and external monitoring of the resettlement program.
While the internal monitoring will focus on issues relating to compliance with the quantitative targets
mentioned in the RAPs, external monitoring will aim to evaluate the qualitative impacts of the
resettlement program. Indicators for both internal and external monitoring have been included in the
RAPs. The Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences has been engaged by the IMPCD as the external
monitoring agency. The project agencies are required to submit periodic reports (both internal and
external) to the Bank within two months of each December 31 and June 30, starting December 31, 1998
and until completion of all land acquisition and resettlement under the project in the case of internal
monitoring reports and within 4 months of the same dates in the case of external monitoring repoits.
These monitoring arrangements will also be followed in Gansu and Ningxia.
RIPA Component
9.     The first year's package consists of 13 systems in 13 counties with a total road length of 836
kms. An "Inventory" of impacts has been submitted by GPCD. A total of 5377 mu of land would need to
be permanently acquired while 911 mu will need to be temporarily requisitioned. 308 persons will be



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 87
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
directly affected by land acquisition and relocation. The total cost of resettlement implementation will be
2.46 million RMB.
B. Gansu
10.    The project components in Gansu involve the construction of two sections of the of the National
highway number 312 and roads under the RIPA component. the highways consist of two sections: the
east section is from Liugouhe to Zhonghe, a four lane expressway 33.5 kms in length; the west section,
totaling 64 kms in length will connect Xujiamo and Jiepaicun with a Class 2 "auto only" highway. Land
would need to be acquired for all of these components and the affected people and properties need to be
resettled / relocated.
11.    Detailed census and socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and properties were conducted
by the CPPDI in collaboration with other concemed agencies and the local govemments in the project
area during June-August, 1997. As a result of these surveys, precise categories of impact have been
identified and broad resettlement entitlement policies for each category have been established. The
categories of impact and the corresponding entitlement policies are given below:
Categories of Impact          Unit of entitlement                      Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land          PAPs; affected production teams  Compensation for land; resettlement subsidy;
redistribution of agricultural land(wherever possible),
equity contribution (in kind) for new township
enterprises, interest bearing deposits in the owned by
the affected households.
Affected houses            Affected PAPs                   Cash compensation at replacement cost; transfer
allowance; transition allowance
Affected enterprises       Affected Units                   Compensation equivalent to replacement cost;
compensation for loss of income during move
Other affected assets      Owners                           Compensation at replacement cost
Affected infrastructure    Affected community              Replacement of infrastructure up to the same standard
12.    The census surveys show that the project would need to acquire 11, 530 mu of land. The land
acquisition would directly impact 778 households (3149 persons). Impacts on residential houses would
affect an additional 1010 persons in 241 households. 8 enterprises will also be slightly affected for the
duration of the move, but no employees will be affected.
13.    The per capita land holdings along both sections of the highways are very low and the project
acquires a substantial portion of the agricultural land in the affected villages. Economic rehabilitation of
the affected persons poses a big challenge. Only a small percentage of the affected households can be
absorbed in agriculture through redistribution of residual farmland of the affected villages. In most of the
cases land redistribution, by itself, will not suffice and a large percentage of the households would need
to resort to other, non-land-based modes of economic rehabilitation. The project agencies have come up
with a detailed economic rehabilitation strategy for the affected households in such villages. Typical
strategies are based on developing new land for agriculture, providing irrigation and agriculture
intensification, investment in new enterprises, treating land compensation as the equity of affected
households into formation of these enterprises, and depositing compensation in "interest bearing
deposits" managed by the affected households. The affected townships will be paid nine times the annual
production value of affected land for financing these activities (3 for land compensation and 6 for
resettlement subsidy).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 88
Country: China                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
14.    The costs associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The
total cost of implementing the resettlement program is estimated to be RMB 136.3 million (approx. USD
16.4 million). The cost estimates include price and physical contingencies.
RIPA component
15.    The first year's package consists of 2 systems with six roads in six counties with a total road
length of 178 kms. An "Inventory" of impacts has been submitted by GPCD. A total of 610 mu of land
would need to be permanently acquired for the 6 systems. 366 persons will be directly affected by land
acquisition, while another 406 will be affected by house relocation. The total cost of resettlement
implementation is estimated to be about 21.1 million RMB ($2.5 million) of which 3.62 million RMB
(US$0.4 million) will be for the first year's package.
C. Ningxia
16.    The project components in Ningxia involve construction of a new highway from Guyaozi t:o
Wangquanliang (94 km), rehabilitation of an existing highway from Yanchi to Xingren (250.5 km) and
construction of roads under the RIPA component. Land acquisition and resettlement of affected persons
is, therefore, necessary. The highways passes through sparsely populated areas consisting primarily of
wastelands. Consequently, the extent of land acquisition and especially relocation required is minimal in
comparison to the total length of the highways. Similarly the roads under the RIPA component do not
involve substantial resettlement.
17.    The NPCD engaged the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences to help design the census surveys
and conduct the socioeconomic surveys of the affected populations. Based on these surveys a detailed
baseline of affected households, properties and enterprises has been established. This baseline forms thie
basis for detailed resettlement planning. The categories of impact identified as a result of the census
surveys and the corresponding resettlement entitlement policies for each of these categories are given
below:
Categories of Impact         Unit of entitlement                   Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land     PAPs; affected production teams    Compensation for land; resettlement subsidy;
redistribution of agricultural land
Affected houses       Affected PAPs                      Cash compensation at replacement cost;
transfer allowance; transition allowance
Affected enterprises  Affected Units                     Compensation equivalent to replacement cost;
compensation for loss of income during move
Other affected assets    Owners                          Compensation at replacement cost
Affected infrastructure   Affected community             Replacement of infrastructure up to the same
standard
18.    8,704 mu of land would need to be acquired for the project in Ningxia while another 1,424 mu
will need to be requisitioned temporarily. 361 households (1716 persons)will be directly affected due to
land acquisition and another 62 households (324 persons) will be affected by impacts on their houses. 8
enterprises with 267 workers will also be affected partially or fully.
19,    The costs associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The
total cost of implementing the resettlement program is estimated to be RMB 18.3 million (approx. USI)
2.2 million). The cost estimates include price and physical contingencies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 89
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tr-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
RIPA Component
20.    The first year's package consists of four systems in four counties with a total road length of 68
kms. An "Inventory" of impacts has been submitted by the NCD. About 381 mu of land would need to
be permanently acquired for the four systems while 30 mu will need to be temporarily requisitioned.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 90
Country: China                                    Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 13
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
A. Background
1.    Environmental assessments (EAs) of the following six major highway components were carried
out by Environmental Science Research Institute of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region [(a) and (b)
below], Lanzhou University, [(c) below], and Xian Highway University [(d), (e) and (f) below]. Th,e
initial draft EA documents were submitted to the Bank during November 1997 and reviewed by the Bank
during the Preparation/Pre-Appraisal Mission in November 1997.
(a)    Baotou-Dongsheng Class I Highway (BDH: 103 km) in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region;
(b)    Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway (BFH: 142 km) in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region;
(c)    Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (LZE: 33.5 km) in Gansu Province;
(d)    Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Class 2 Auto-Only Highway (XJH: 64 km) in Gansu Province;
(e)    Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I Highway (GWH: 94.0 km) in Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region; and
(f)    Yanchi-Xingren Class 2 Highway (YXH: 250.5 km) in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.
2.    The draft final Environmental Impact Assessment Reports (EIAs), Environmental Action Plans
(EAPs) and Executive Summaries (ES) of all six highways were submitted to the Bank in December
1997, and found satisfactory. It is noted that EIA, EAP and ES of Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway include
environmental assessment works for Jiepaicun-Gulang Highway which is out of the scope of the project.
3.    Regarding the rural roads improvement program to help alleviate poverty (RIPA) in poor
counties of the three provinces, it was agreed that a Sectoral Environment Assessment Approach would
be applied. Accordingly, Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) reports and EAPs of first year package
of RIPA component under the project were prepared and submitted to the Bank during December 1997-
January 1998.
4.    During the EA work in the three provinces, the local people along the project route have been
intensively consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental
mitigation measures, as appropriate.
5.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EAs, as well as the Bank's
policy. Major laws and regulations applied to the EAs for the Tri-Provincial Highway Project are
presented below. Major national standards applied to the project are attached as Appendix to this Annex.
(g)    Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
(h)   Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(i)    Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(j)    Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(k)    Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC;
(1)    Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations (June 1993), issued by National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA).



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 91
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
6.    The scope of and the criteria for the EIAs is presented below.
(m)   Noise: The EAs cover areas within 200 m from both sides of the alignments BDH, BFH,
LZE, XGH and GWH, and within 100 m from both sides of the alignment of YXH. Class
II noise standards [60 dB(A) in daytime and 50 dB(A) at night] are applied to schools
and hospitals. Class IV standards [70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at night] are
applied to other areas such as residential areas.
(n)    Air pollution: The areas covered by EAs are the same as those for noise. Class II
standards are applied to the project.
(o)    Ecological conditions (water, soil, etc.):The EAs cover areas within 200-1000 m along
the alignment.
(p)    Target year for the predictions: In light of the construction schedule of the project,
environmental predictions are carried out at three stages: at initial operational stage
around 2002, at medium-term around 2010, and long-term around 2020.
B. Brief Project Description
7.    The Tri-Provincial Highway Project includes the following highway components for which
environmental assessments are needed.
(q)    Construction/improvement of six main highways comprising construction/improvement of:
(i)    Baotou-Dongsheng Class I Highway (BDH: 103 km) in Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region. The section from Dongsheng to the south (10.9 km) will be
regular two-lane Class 2 Highway;
(ii)   Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Class 2 Highway (BFH: 142 km of which about 72 km
will be Class 2 Auto-Only) in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region;
(iii)   Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (LZE: 33.5 km) in Gansu Province;
(iv)   Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Class 2 Auto-Only Highway (XJH: 64 km) in Gansu
Province;
(v)    Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I Highway (GWH: 94.0 km of which the 10.7 km
section between Yanchi and Wangquanliang is Class 2 Auto-Only) in Ningxia
Hui Autonomous Region; and
(vi)   Yanchi-Xingren Class 2 Highway (YXH: 250.5 km) in Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region
(r)   Improvement and new construction of about 1900 km in total of rural roads in a program to help
alleviate poverty (RIPA) in poor counties in the three provinces concerned.
C. Baseline Environmental Description
8.    Natural Environment: The project areas are located in the three land-locked provinces of Inner
Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia. The areas belong to the typical continental climate zone, with hot



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 92
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
summers, long and cold winters, a large range of temperature in the year, and very low precipitation. In
general, due to those climatic factors, ecological conditions of the project areas are very vulnerable wilh
poor vegetation. The proposed highways mostly go through dry land, where water resources are veiy
scarce. Field surveys were undertaken along the alignment in each province during the preparation of the
project. The surveys ensure that there is no natural habitats and environmentally protected areas along the
project areas. Supplementary information of natural environment in each highway component are
summarized below.
9.    BDH goes through Baotou City, Dalate Banner and Dongsheng City of Yikezhao League in Inner
Mongolia, which are relatively flat. Another highway component in the province. BFH goes through
Quhar Right Wing Rear Banner, Jining City Quahar Right Wing Front Banner and Fengzhen City of
Ulanquab League. Land morphology along BFH is relatively flat in the northern section (Baiyinchagan -
Jining City), and is mountainous and hilly in the southern section (Jining - Fengzhen). Due to very dry
weather, strong winds, and other unfavorable climatic conditions, soil erosion and land degradation are
widely observed in both sections. Also, vegetation is very poor and fragile.
10.   XJH goes through Yongden and Tianzhu Counties in Gansu. The proposed alignment goes
through relatively level land in Yongden County, and then through rolling hill areas of Tianzhu County.
Ecological conditions in Tianzhu are unfavorable with poor vegetation and prevailing soil erosion. LZE
goes through hilly and gully land on loess plateau, where vegetation is generally poor and land resources
have been degraded.
11.   The proposed alignment of GWH and YXH in Ningxia mostly goes through flat plains.
Vegetation is dry or desert steppe. Since the evaporation rate is quite high (7 - 9 times higher than annual
precipitation), water resources are very scarce. Also, drifting sand dunes and salt lakes have been greatly
developed. In winter and spring, sandstorms occasionally occur in the areas, particularly along YXH.
12.   Socio-Economic Situations: While the project areas are rich in various resources, they are
generally under-utilized with a few exceptions in Baotou City in Inner Mongolia. The majority of the
farmers in rural areas are poor. The socio-economic situations of the project areas along each highway
component are summarized below.
13.   The population of the areas is around 1.72 million along BDH, and around 1.01 million alon,g
BFH in Inner Mongolia. While living conditions in urban areas such as Baotou, Dalate and Dongsheng
are higher than or equivalent to the provincial average, the majority of the farmers in rural areas are poor.
These areas are rich in mineral and energy resources. In Baotou, steel and non-ferrous industries are
dominant. In the rest of the project areas, the natural resources have been under-utilized, and agriculture
and livestock farming are major industry. Along BFH, farmlands are dominant in the project areas, which
have suffered from soil erosion and degradation. BDH mostly goes through uncultivated areas, where
sand dunes and even desert are found along the proposed alignment.
14.   XJH goes through Yongden and Tianzhu Counties in Gansu Province, with a population of .U 1
million in total. In these counties, agriculture and livestock farming is a major industry. LZE goes
through Yuzhong County, Chengguan District and Gaolan County of Lanzhou City, with a population of
2.6 million in total. The majority of people along the alignment is dependent on agriculture and township
enterprises.
15.   GWH and YXH in Ningxia go through Lingwu City, Yanchi County, Tongxin County, and
Haiyuan County, with a population of 1.07 million in total. While those areas are rich in natural
resources such as coal and limestone, due to various reasons, the local economy is backward. Agriculture
and livestock farning are major industry in the areas. Around 80 - 90 percent of total land is used for
agriculture and/or livestock farming, which has been suffering from desertification.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 93
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
16.   Cultural Property: During the preparation of the project, cultural property along the alignment
has been investigated. Except GWH, no cultural property has been observed along the proposed
alignment.
17.   Regarding GWH, the field survey found that there is the remains of the Great Wall along the
proposed alignment, which has been greatly damaged by natural aging and various human activities over
hundreds of years. While the concerned portion of Great Wall is not under protection due to its poor
conditions, an additional survey was carried out during the preparation of the project to identify
necessary mitigation measures to be reflected in the project design and construction works. The
additional survey was designed and carried out based on Bank policy, O.P. Note 11.03.
18.   Air Quality: Baseline data indicate that the current air quality (CO and NOx) along the project
areas are generally in good condition with a few exceptions at the sites near urban areas such as
Langzhou and Baotou. Regarding TSP, monitoring data indicate that the current levels occasionally
exceed the standards due to sandy winds.
19.   Noise: Present acoustic environmental conditions are generally good along most of the proposed
alignment. At limited sites near urban areas such as Dongsheng, noise levels slightly exceed the
standards due to the existing traffic.
20.   Water Quality: Measured surface water quality data generally meet the water quality standards.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
22.   Major environmental impacts and their mitigation measures are summarized below. The
mitigation measures identified are reflected in the project documents, as appropriate. The key elements of
the EAPs are summarized as Appendix of this Annex.
Design Phase
23.   Alternatives Analysis: Alignments of proposed highways were selected from among several
alternatives in order to minimize land acquisition, social and economic disturbances, adverse
environmental impacts including noise pollution at sensitive sites and ecological disruption and, adverse
impacts on cultural property, and to avoid unfavorable geological conditions.
24.   Social Disruption: In order to minimize problems of community separation and interference on
livestock migration resulting from the project, a large number of underpasses and overpasses were
included in the project design.
25.    Soil Erosion: Mitigation measures to minimize soil erosion were reflected in the project design,
such as rational utilization of waste soil, proper design and protection of slopes, and construction of
ditches and other drainage structures
26.   Noise and Air Pollution: Noise and air pollution mitigation measures are identified and
reflected in the engineering design of the project. These include construction of noise barriers, plantation
of trees, installation of surrounding walls, etc.. Several buildings will be relocated due to the significant
noise impacts.
27.    Cultural Property: Regarding GWH in Ningxia, an additional survey was carried out in May
1997, with participation of a local expert and the concerned local authorities, to assess potential impacts
on the remains of the Great Wall and to identify their mitigation measures. Also, the proposed alignment



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 94
Country: China                                        Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
and design were thoroughly reviewed with the local authorities of cultural property, and were approved
by them. Based on this survey, the original alignment was changed so as to minimize adverse impacts.
Construction Phase
28.    Dust and other air pollution, noise pollution, soil erosion and water pollution have been
identified as potential impacts of the project during the construction phase.
29.    Dust and Other Air Pollution: Fugitive dust and other air pollution have been identified as
major environmental impacts during the construction work of main highway. Construction sites will be
sprayed with water to minimize fugitive dust. Asphalt and concrete mixing stations will not be locatecl
near the sensitive sites. Appropriate measures will be implemented to minimize adverse impacts of
transportation of construction materials.
30.    Noise:  Operation of heavy machinery and other construction activities will cause adverse
impacts on acoustic environment at the populated project areas, in particular, at environmentally
sensitive sites such as schools and hospitals. Strict regulations of schedule of construction works will be
implemented to minimize such adverse impacts. Construction works will be prohibited near residential
areas and other sensitive sites between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Stricter regulations will be adoptedi,
after further consultation with concerned bodies, at several sensitive sites.
31.    Soil Erosion: In order to minimize soil erosion and vegetation loss, trees and grasses plantation
will be carried out, as appropriate. Temporary drainage system will be developed, where necessary, to
minimize soil erosion and adverse impacts on irrigation system.
32.    Water Pollution: Appropriate measure will be undertaken to prevent direct discharges of
polluted water from construction activities into rivers and canals. In case of bridge construction,
machinery and construction boats will be maintained in a proper manner to prevent accidental oil spills.
Hazardous construction materials such as asphalt and oil will be safely stored. Garbage and wastes from
construction activities including those from construction camps will be handled in an appropriate manner
to avoid water pollution and sanitary problems.
33.    Cultural Property:  Construction works will be stopped in case new cultural relics are
discovered as a result of road construction or excavation activities. The local cultural property authorities
will be inforned and a field survey of the site will be undertaken. Necessary mitigation measures will be
implemented, as appropriate.
34.   In order to minimize adverse impacts on the remains of the Great Wall along GWH, no borrow
shall be allowed within 80 m from the remains. Excavated soil will be returned and compacted in a
proper manner. Any undue activities of construction workers will be prohibited.
Operation Phase
35.    Noise and Air Pollution: According to the noise predictions, the noise levels during the first ten
years of the operation phase generally meet the standards. During 2010-2020, the noise levels exceed the
standards at limited sensitive sites. In order to mitigate such noise pollution, depending on the monitoring
results, appropriate measures including construction of noise barriers will be implemented. The predicled
air pollution levels generally meet the standards. In order to avoid future noise and air pollution
problems, development of residential areas, and construction of sensitive buildings such as schools and
hospitals will be prohibited in the vicinity of the highways. Mitigation measures for each of the main
highways are summarized below.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 95
Country: China                                      Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
36.   Inner Mongolia. The predicted noise levels along both BDH and BFH generally meet the
standards during the first ten years of the operation phase. During 2010-2020, the noise levels, in
particular during the night-time, exceed the standards at several sensitive sites. At Hongshaba Elementary
School along BFH, mitigation measures including raising the height of existing walls and installation of
double-layer glass windows will be implemented around 2001. Depending on monitoring data,
appropriate measure will be considered at other sensitive sites along both BDH and BFH.
37.   Gansu. The predicted noise levels along XJH and LZE generally meet the standards. Depending
on the monitoring results, a noise barrier of around 300 m will be constructed at Tianzhu Normal School
along XJH during 2010-2020. Regarding LZE, depending on the monitoring data, appropriate noise
protection including installation of double-layer glass windows and raising the height of the existing
surrounding walls will be carried out around 2010 at Qingbaishi Middle School and Gansu Education
Institute. While incremental impacts of the project are relatively minimal, the predicted air pollution
levels (NOx) at Donggang-Zaoshugou section which is near from Lanzhou city center exceed the
standards mainly due to existing sources. The Lanzhou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau has
been strengthening mitigation measures to control such pollution, including promotion of energy savings
and rehabilitation of treatment facilities. The EIA ensures that through such measures the air pollution
levels in the area will be improved within an acceptable level.
38.   Ningxia. The predicted noise levels along YXH and GWH generally meet the standards. During
2010-2020, the noise levels exceed the standards at limited sensitive sites. Depending on the monitoring
results, at Shintangou Primary School and Hanjiaoshui High School along YXH, surrounding walls of
around 800 m in total (300 m in Shintagou and 500 m in Hanjiaoshu) will be constructed during 2010-
2020. At Guyaozi of GWH, noise monitoring will be regularly carried out to evaluate noise levels.
Depending on the results, appropriate measures including construction of surrounding walls will be
considered.
39.   Other Pollution:  In order to prevent water pollution from the service areas, appropriate
treatment facilities will be installed. Garbage at the service areas will be regularly collected and disposed
in a proper manner.
E. Environmental Monitoring
40.   During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to
verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. An annual monitoring report for the previous year
would be furnished to the Bank starting in February 29, 2000 and ending in February 28, 2007.
Construction Phase
41.   Noise and ambient air (dust and TSP) will be regularly measured at major sensitive sites along
main highways in each province. In LZE of Gansu, water quality monitoring (pH, SS, DO, COD, BOD,
Pb and oil) will be undertaken. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequencies,
sites, methods are included in EAPs, respectively.
Operation Phase
42.   Monitoring items include noise and ambient air (NOx, CO, TSP) at major sensitive sites, and tail
gas (CO, CH, SPM). Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequencies, sites, methods
are included in EAPs, respectively.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 96
Country: China                                       Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
43.    The institutional arrangements for environmental protection of main highways are summarized
below.
(a)    Inner Mongolia. Environmental Protection Section with four staff will be established
under the project office. The Section will be responsible for environmental management
of both BDH and BFH sections. Under the Section, an environmental protection office
with two staff will be established at each contract section, which is responsible for
environmental supervision. Environmental monitoring (air, noise water and ecological
conditions) will be carried out by local environmental monitoring stations.
(b)    Gansu. One deputy director within the Project Office will be assigned for overall
environmental management. The Environmental Protection Office (EPO) with four staff
will be established within the Project Office. Under the EPO, an environmental
protection group with two staff will be established for each main highway.
(c)    Ningxia. One deputy chief engineer will be assigned for environmental management,
who will be assisted by one engineer. An engineer will be assigned for environmental
management at local offices of YXH and GWH sections. Noise and dust monitoring will
be carried out by supervisors at each contract sections, while TSP monitoring will be
carried out by Ningxia Environmental Monitoring Station.
44.    The outline environmental training programs under this project is as follows.
(a)     Inner Mongolia. The environmental training program would consist of four components:
(i) high-level staff training (two persons for around 30 days each including overseas
training), (ii) domestic training for environmental administration (seven persons for
around 30 days each), (iii) domestic training for environmental engineering and
technology (seven persons for around 30 days each), and (iv) domestic training for
environmental supervision (seven persons for around 30 days each).
(b)     Gansu. The environmental training program would consist of three components:
(c)           training of a high-level engineer for around 30 days including overseas training,
(i)           training for environmental staff (two persons for around 30 days each including
overseas training), and
(d)           domestic training for environmental supervision (sixteen persons for around 30
days each).
(e)     Ningxia. The environmental training would consist of four components:
(f)           high-level training of one person for around 20 days
(g)           environmental management training (administrative: three persons for around 15
days each),
(h)           environmental management training (engineering and technology: 3-6 persons
for around 15 days each), and
(i)           environmental supervision and monitoring (twelve persons for around 30 days
each). All those training would be domestic.
G. Environmental Aspects of RIPA
45.    RIPA includes 50 road segments under 22 systems with a total length of 1,887 km. Since the road
segments under RIPA are large in number, and most of the RIPA projects consist of upgrading existing



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 97
Country: China                                       Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
roads and are small in the size of construction works, it was agreed that a Sectoral Environmental
Assessment approach would be applied to the RIPA projects. Also, the RIPA projects will be undertaken
in a phased approach. The environmental documents have been prepared for the first-year package in
each province, and been reviewed by the Bank.
46.    Twenty-three road segments in total will be included as first-year package. Three road segments
all in Inner Mongolia will be newly constructed, while the remaining twenty segments will be upgraded
mainly from unclassified road status to Class IV roads. The environmental documents of all these
segments have been generally well-prepared and found satisfactory to the Bank.
47.    Overview of Environmental Conditions.
(a)    Inner Mongolia. Thirteen road segments with six new construction will be included as first-year
package. The project areas are mostly located in flat or gently hilly areas, which are generally in
poor vegetation. Air and noise conditions are good in quality. No cultural property and natural
habitats are observed along the alignments.
(b)    Gansu. Six road segments will be included as first-year package, which are all upgrading. The
project areas are located mainly in mountainous region. While proposed road segments of
System 10 (Baihe-Linggiangpu, Yaoping- Yuntai, and Hekou-Maquan) go through areas with
relatively warm and moist weather, the rest of the proposed projects are located in areas with dry
and severe environmental conditions. Air and noise conditions are good in quality. No cultural
property and natural habitats are observed along the alignments.
(c)    Ningxia. Four road segments will be included as first-year package, which are all upgrading. The
proposed projects are located mainly in hilly areas where the environmental conditions are
vulnerable with dry weather. Air and noise conditions are good in quality. No cultural property
and natural habitats are observed along the alignments. No environmentally sensitive sites such
as schools and hospitals exist along the project areas.
48.    Potential Impacts and Mitigation Measures.
(a)    Inner Mongolia. In light of existing environmental conditions and future traffic volumes, no
significant potential impacts of the projects including new construction works are envisaged.
Appropriate measures to minimize soil erosion and impacts on vegetation will be implemented,
including slope protection, construction of retaining walls and drainage structures, and planting
trees and grasses. Utilization of heavy machinery will be prohibited during night-time. During
the construction phase, spraying water will be carried out to minimize dust pollution.
(b)    Gansu. No significant potential impacts are envisaged. Mitigation measures include: construction
of additional retaining walls, slope protection, construction of temporary and permanent drainage
system, and tree/grass planting. Also, mitigation measures commonly used for minimizing noise
and water pollution will be implemented.
(c)    Ningxia. Since no environmentally sensitive sites exist in the project areas and the construction
works are small in size, environmental impacts of the projects are very minimal. Slope protection
and tree planting will be undertaken to minimize soil erosion and impacts on vegetation. During
the construction phase, spraying water will be carried out to minimize dust pollution.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 98
Country: China                                     Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
49.   Environmental Supervision and Management.
(a)   Inner Mongolia. The local environmental monitoring stations will be responsible for
environmental monitoring. The local communication bureaus are responsible for environmental
supervision during the construction phase. Inner Mongolia Highway Administration Bureau wvill
be responsible for overall environmental management of RIPA. Training programs will be
organized by Inner Mongolia Communication Department.
(b)    Gansu. The local communication bureaus will be responsible for environmental supervision
during the construction phase. Gansu Highway Administration Bureau will be responsible for
overall environmental management of RIPA.
(c)    Ningxia. The local communication bureaus are responsible for environmental supervision duriing
the construction phase. Ningxia Highway Administration Bureau will be responsible for overall
environmental management of RIPA. Training programs will be organized by Ning.Kia
Communication Department.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
50.   Public Consultation and Feedback: The following approaches have been adopted for public
consultation under this project:
(i)    workshop with participation of experts and governmental officials;
(ii)   consultation meetings with local governments/representatives; and
(iii)   questionnaire analysis of public opinion supplemented by interviews.
51.   Major feedback other than those relating to resettlement issues includes:
(i)    Noise pollution during the construction and operation phases should be minimized (YXH, XJH
and LZE);
(ii)   Construction work should be in a good quality so as to avoid unnecessary disturbances on the
environment (BDH and BFH);
(iii)   Afforestation work should be timely undertaken (BDH, BFH and LZE); and
(iv)   Passages should be constructed so as to minimize impacts of community separation (GWH-[).
Those points were reflected in selection of road alignment and/or EAP as appropriate.
52.   Information Disclosure: Draft final EIAs, EAPs and ES were submitted to the Bank during
December 1997-January 1998. Those environmental documents were made public locally at Provincial
Communication Department in each province. Following receipt of letters of agreement on release frojm
the three provinces, those documents were sent to the PIC.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 99
Country: China                                                        Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 13
Appendix: Key elements of EAPs for the Tri-provincial Highway Project
Environmental Issues                            Actions Taken/To Be Taken                             Responsibility
Design Phase
1. Route Selection        The alignments were selected from several alternatives to minimize land acquisition  PCDIPHDI
requirements, reduce impacts on the environment, and to avoid unfavorable geological
conditions and cultural relics.
2. Social Disruption      Adequate number of bridges and underpasses/overpasses were designed.         PHDI
3. Soil Erosion           Planting of trees and grasses was included in designs where appropriate. Slope  PHDI
protection, retaining walls, protection walls were incorporated in the design.
Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to minimize soil erosion
and alteration of hydrological regimes.                                      PHDI
4. Dust/Air Pollution     In addition to I above, quarries, material borrow sites and waste disposal sites were  PHDI
selected, taking into account the dust and other problems at environmentally sensitive
locations such as residential areas.
5. Noise                 In addition to I above, adequate measures such as noise barriers and double-glass  PHDI
windows were identified and integrated in the project cost.
6. Cultural Relics        Cultural relics survey was carried out and mitigation measures were identified.  NPCD
Construction Phase
1. Dust/Air Pollution     All reasonable steps, including watering, will be taken to minimize dust pollution  Contractors
during construction.
Stockpiles and storage areas will be covered or watered to prevent dust pollution.
Trucks to transport construction materials will be covered to minimize spills.
Asphalt mixing sites will not be located near the sensitive sites.
2. Noise                  Noisy construction works will be prohibited during the nighttime in the sensitive sites.   Contractors
Stricter regulations will be adopted at the selective sensitive sites (GWH, YXH, and
LZE).
3. Soil Erosion/Water     Trees and grasses will be planted on side slope, and along the roadside, where  Contractors
Pollution                 appropriate.
Temporary channel or conduit will be constructed for irrigation and drainage where
appropriate.
All reasonable measures shall be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted water
from construction activities into rivers and irrigation channels.
4. Construction Camps     Adequate measures of wastewater treatment and garbage collection will be taken at the    Contractors
construction camp sites.
5. Cultural Relics        Excavation will be stopped immediately if any cultural relics are found. The local  PCD/Super-
cultural authority will be informed of such discovery, and a field survey of the site will   vision Engineer
be undertaken.
Operation Phase
1. Noise and Air Pollution   Noise barriers or other appropriate noise protection measures will be installed at  PCD
location where noise significantly exceeds standard.
2. Water Pollution/Waste    Wastewater at service areas will be treated by appropriate facilities. Garbage will be  PCD/Operators
Disposal                  regularly collected. (XJH, GWH, and YXH)                                     of Highways
Note:                    Abbreviations:
Organizations:  PCD:     Provincial Communication Department           PHDI:  Provincial Highway Design Institute
NPCD:   Ningxia Provincial Communication Department
Highways:     BDH:       Baotou-Donghseng Class I Highway              BFH:   Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen highway
LZE:      Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway                   XJH:   Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Class 2 Auto-
Only Highway
GWH:    Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I Highway           YXH:   Yanchi-Xingren Class 2 Highway



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 F'age 100
Country: China                                            Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-Pl-_-45788)
Annex 14
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                Actual (5/26/98)
(At final PAD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         283,000                    156,700
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                    Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              04/03/1997                 04/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                       01/12/1998                04/14/1998
Negotiations                                      04/20/1998                05/18/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     11/15/1998                11/15/1998
Prepared by: Provincial Communications Departments of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia
Preparation assistance: PHRD (review of highway designs and bid documents, social assessments, rural
roads), Canadian Trust Fund (RIPA), Finnish Trust Fund (Highway Safety)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Specialty
Robin Carruthers                           Economist
Xin Chen                                   Project Coordinator - China
Maninder Gill                              Resettlement Specialist
Hatim Hajj                                 Task Team Leader, engineering, procurement
Takashi Matsumura                          Environmental Specialist
Philip Daltrop                             Lawyer
Silvia Ross                               Task Assistant
Claude Salem                               Institutional Strengthening and Training Specialist
Chongwu Sun                                Environmental Specialist, China
Cynthia Warren                             Task Assistant
Dawei Yang                                 Procurement Specialist, China
Xiaohong Yang                              Disbursement Specialist, China
Youlan Zou                                 Resettlement Specialist, China
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Gregory Guldin                             Social Scientist
Harri Peltola                              Traffic Safety Specialist
V. Setty Pendakur                          Rural Transport Specialist



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 101
Country: China                                             Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 15
Documents in the Project File
A.    Project Implementation Plan
1. Inner Mongolia, May 1998
2. Gansu, May 1998
3. Ningxia, May 1998
B.    Feasibility Studies
1. Inner Mongolia
a) Baotou-Dongsheng Highway, January 1997, with supplementary information in May
1997.
b) Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway, May 1997
c) 13 studies, one for each segment of RIPA, December 1997
2. Gansu
a) Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway, March 1997, with supplementary information in May
1997
b) Xujiamo-Gulang Highway, April 1997, with supplementary information in May 1997
and September 1997
3. Ninaxia
a) Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway, January 1997 with supplements in May 1997,
September 1997, and December 1997
b) Yanchi-Xingren Highway, January 1997, with supplement in May 1997
C.    Resettlement Action Plan
1. Inner Mongolia
a) Baotou-Dongsheng Highway, December, 1997 with supplementary information on
squatters in March 1998
b) Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway, December 1997
c) 13 RAPs for 13 segments of RIPA, December 1997
2. Gansu
a) Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway and Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway (no. 312), May 1998
b) First-year package of RIPA, December 1997
3. Ningxia
a) Gouyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway, December 1997
b) Yanchi-Xingren Highway, December 1997
c) First-year package of RIPA, December 1997
D.    Environment (EIA, EAP, Summary)
1. Inner Mongolia
a) Baotou-Dongsheng Highway, December 1997
b) Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway, December 1997
c) First package of RIPA, December 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 102
Country: China                                            Project Title: Tn-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
2. Gansu
a) Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway, December 1997
b) Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway, December 1997
c) First package of RIPA, December 1997
3. Ninaxia
a) Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway, December 1997
b) Yanchi-Xingren Highway, December 1997
c) First-year package of RIPA, November 1997
E.    Institutional Strengthening and Training
1. Inner Mongolia, December 1997
2. Gansu, December 1997
3. Ningxia, December 1997
F.    Economic and Social Impacts of Main Highways
Rollins International Commercial Consulting Co. Ltd., March 1998, 4 volumes (I main report
and one attachment for each of Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia).
G.    Highway Revenues and Expenditures Report
1. Inner Mongolia, January 1998
2. Gansu, December 1997
3. Ningxia, January 1998
H.    Highway Maintenance Report
1. Inner Mongolia (March 31, 1998)
2. Gansu, December 1997
3. Ningxia, February 1997
I.    Procurement Report
1. Inner Mongolia (Equipment only), December 1997
2. Gansu, January 1998
3. Ningxia, December 1997
J.    Traffic Engineering Report
1. Inner Mongolia:Baotou-Dongsheng Highway, January 1998
2. Gansu:Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway, January 1998
3. Ningxia:Guyaozi-Wangquanliang, December 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                Page 103
Country: China                                                                                                               Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 16
Status of Bank Group Operations in China                                                           MOP Schedule D
IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits in the Operations Portfolio                                                  Generated: 05/13/98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 208
Active Loans
CN-PE-3591    IBRD43090    1998   PRC                                   STATE FARMS COMMERCI             150.00        0.00             0.00        150.00         0.00       0.00
CN-PE-3606    IBRD43040    1998   GOC                                   ENERGY CONSERVATION               63.00        0.00             0.00         63.00         0.00       0.00
CN-PE-40185   IBRD42370    1998   PRC                                   SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT              95.00        0.00             0.00         95.00         6.00       0.00
CN-PE-51736   IBRD43030    1998   GOC                                   E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR             250.00        0.00             0.00        250.00         0.00       0.00
CN-PE-34081   IBRD42000    1997   PRC                                   XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II             230.00        0.00             0.00        230.00        60.00       0.00
CN-PE-34081   IBRD42001    1997    PRC                                  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II             200.00        0.00             0.00        190.25        60.00       0.00
CN-PE-3590    IBRD41870    1997   PRC                                   QINBA MTS. POVTY RED              30.00        0.00             0.00         30.00        14.80       0.00
CN-PE-3590    IDAN0280        1997   PRC                                QINBA MTS. POVTY RED               0.00      150.00             0.00        141.21        14.80       0.00
CN-PE-3635    IBRD4063A    1997   PRC                                   VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ              10.00        0.00             0.00         10.00         5.00       0.00
CN-PE-3635    IDA28980        1997   PRC                                VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ               0.00       20.00             0.00         16.61         5.00       0.00
CN-PE-3637    IDAN0270        1997   PRC                                NATL RUR WATER III                 0.00       70.00             0.00         66.25         3.33       0.00
CN-PE-36405   IBRD41790    1997   PRC                                   WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA             400.00        0.00             0.00        358.66        68.66        0.00
CN-PE-3643    IBRD40990    1997   PRC                                   XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II             300.00        0.00             0.00        268.81        30.81       0.00
CN-PE-3650    IBRD41720    1997   GOC                                   TUOKETUO POWER/INNER             400.00        0.00             0.00        400.00        37.51       0.00
CN-PE-3654    IBRD41240    1997   PRC                                   HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2             400.00        0.00             0.00        400.00        60.00       0.00
CN-PE-36952   IDA29540        1997   PRC                                BASIC ED. IV                       0.00       85.00             0.00         76.95        -2.91       0.00
CN-PE-38988   IBRD41610    1997   PRC                                   HEILONGJIANG ADP                 120.00        0.00             0.00        117.00        10.10       0.00
CN-PE-44485   IBRD41970    1997                                         SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO              400.00        0.00             0.00        400.00        13.10       0.00
CN-PE-34618   IBRD3967A    1996   PRC                                   LABOR MARKET DEV.                 10.00        0.00             0.00         10.00        16.90        0.00
CN-PE-34618   IDA28000        1996   PRC                                LABOR MARKET DEV.                  0.00       20.00             0.00         15.60        16.90       0.00
CN-PE-3507    IBRD3933A    1996   GOC                                   ERTAN HYDRO II                   177.68        0.00             0.00         51.63       -48.59       0.00
CN-PE-3507    IBRD3933B    1996   GOC                                   ERTAN HYDRO II                    88.84        0.00             0.00           4.04      -48.59        0.00
CN-PE-3563    IBRD40010    1996   PRC                                   ANIMAL FEED                      150.00        0.00             0.00        150.00        59.31       0.00
CN-PE-3569    IBRD39290    1996   P.R.C.                                SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI             260.00        0.00             7.75        141.26         8.04      -4.97
CN-PE-3589    IDA27940        1996   PRC                                DISEASE PREVENTION                 0.00      100.00             0.00         78.99        40.98       0.00
CN-PE-3594     IBRD40280    1996   PRC                                  GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR               60.00        0.00             0.00         60.00        12.82       0.00
CN-PE-3594    IDA28700        1996   PRC                                GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                0.00       90.00             0.00         70.50        12.82       0.00
CN-PE-3599    IBRD40550    1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                     YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT               125.00        0.00             0.00        125.00         1.55       0.00
CN-PE-3599    IDA28920        1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                  YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                 0.00       25.00             0.00          16.54        1.55        0.00
CN-PE-3602    IBRD39660    1996   PRC                                   HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO             125.00        0.00             0.00        125.00        56.66       0.00
CN-PE-3602    IDA27990        1996   PRC                                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO               0.00       25.00             0.00         15.33        56.66        0.00
CN-PE-3638    IBRD40440    1996   PRC                                   SEEDS SECTOR COMNER.              80.00        0.00             0.00          80.00       17.79        0.00
CN-PE-3638    IDA28860        1996   PRC                                SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.               0.00       20.00             0.00         10.05        17.79       0.00
CN-PE-3646    IBRD40450    1996   PRC                                   CHONGQING IND POL CT             170.00        0.00             0.00        170.00        57.01        0.00
CN-PE-3648    IBRD39870    1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                    SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE             250.00        0.00             0.00        211.80        62.00       0.00
CN-PE-3649    IDA28340        1996   CHINA                              SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV               0.00      100.00             0.00         49.20       -18.53       0.00
CN-PE-3652    IBRD39860    1996   PRC                                   2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY             210.00        0.00             0.00        178.56        43.55        0.00
CN-PE-36950   IDA28310        1996   PRC                                BASIC ED. POOR III                 0.00      100.00             0.00         39.91       -21.09       0.00
CN-PE-40513   IBRD40270    1996   PRC                                   2ND HENAN PROV HWY               210.00        0.00             0.00        198.00        33.00        0.00
CN-PE-3493    IBRD39106    1995   PRC                                   INLAND WATERWAYS                 210.00        0.00             0.00        142.81        23.10        0.00
CN-PE-3571    IBRD38976    1995   PRC                                   RAILWAYS VII                     400.00        0.00             0.00        392.00        99.00        0.00
CN-PE-3585    IBRD37880    1995   GOC                                   SHENYANG IND. REFORM             175.00        0.00             0.00        122.24        31.24        0.00
CN-PE-3596    IBRD3874A    1995   PRC                                   YANGTZE BASIN WATER               97.26        0.00             0.00         65.06       -20.58        0.00
CN-PE-3596    IDA27100        1995   PRC                                YANGTZE BASIN WATER                0.00      110.00             0.00           9.45      -20.58        0.00
CN-PE-3598    IBRD37810    1995                                         LIAONING ENVIRONMENT             110.00        0.00             0.00          75.09       42.98        0.00
CN-PE-3600    IBRD3847A    1995   PRC                                   TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME             194.99        0.00             0.00        174.53        35.44        0.00
CN-PE-3603    TBRD3773A    1995   PRC                                   ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE             262.51         0.00            0.00        240.11       132.96        0.00
CN-PE-3603    IDA26420        1995   PRC                                ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE               0.00       75.00             0.00           6.20      132.96        0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                Page 104
Country: China                                                                                                               Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD         IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-36041   IBRD38736    1995   MOF                                   FISCAL & TAX REF. &               25.00        0.00             0.00         25.00        36.68       0.00
CN-PE-36041   IDA27090       1995   MOF                                 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                0.00       25.00             0.00         17.73        36.68       0.00
CN-PE-3612    IBRD37870    1995    PRC                                  XINJIANG HIGHWAY I               150.00        0.00             0.00         95.75        52.76       0.00
CN-PE-3634    IDA26550       1995    PRC                                MATERNAL CHILD HEALT               0.00       90.00             0.00         33.43        11.11       0.00
CN-PE-3636    IDA26510       1995   PRC                                 BASIC EDUC IN POOR &               0.00      100.00             0.00         17.64         -.30       0.00
CN-PE-3639    IBRD39066    1995   PRC                                   SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC              47.50        0.00             0.00         35.59        22.14       0.00
CN-PE-3639    IDA27440       1995   PRC                                 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC               0.00      200.00             0.00         99.00        22.14       0.00
CN-PE-3642    IBRD3846A    1995                                         ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT              154.15        0.00             0.00         93.74        10.01       0.00
CN-PE-3642    IBRD3846B    1995                                         ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT              215.67        0.00             0.00        178.66        10.01       0.00
CN-PE-3647    IDA26540       1995   PRC                                 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                0.00       10.00             0.00          6.02         4.51       0.00
CN-PE-36947   IBRD3848A    1995   GOC                                   SICHUAN TRANSMISSION             270.00        0.00             0.00        196.37       136.38      48.82
CN-PE-37156   IBRD3914A    1995   PRC                                   IODINE DEF. DISORDER               7.00        0.00             0.00          7.00        19.73       0.00
CN-PE-37156   IDA27560        1995   PRC                                IODINE DEF. DISORDER               0.00       20.00             0.00         11.37        19.73       0.00
CN-PE-3502    IDA25390        1994   MOH                                RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                0.00      110.00             0.00         40.30        25.02       0.00
CN-PE-3504    IBRD37480    1994    PRC                                  HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL             380.00        0.00             0.00        115.10        14.07       0.00
H'WAYS
CN-PE-3540    IDA26160       1994    PRC                                LOESS PLATEAU                      0.00      150.00             0.00         41.90       -32.76       0.00
CN-PE-3557    IDA26230       1994    PRC                                FOREST RESOURCE DEV                0.00      200.00             0.00         94.86        41.98       0.00
CN-PE-3562    IBRD37270    1994    PRC                                  XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE          460.00        0.00             0.00         23.36        19.63       0.00
CN-PE-3586    IBRD3711S    1994    PRC                                  SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT             160.00        0.00             0.00         79.76        62.05       0.00
CN-PE-3593    IDA25710       1994    PRC                                SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                 0.00      205.00             0.00         58.55        -8.81       0.00
CN-PE-3595    IDA25630       1994    PRC                                RED SOILS II DEVELOP               0.00      150.00             0.00         46.75         7.34       0.00
CN-PE-3609    IBRD3716A    1994   GOC                                   SICHUAN GAS DEV &                175.45        0.00             0.00        145.08        60.08       0.00
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622    IBRD3652S    1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT               SHANGHAI MTP II                  150.00        0.00             0.00         10.39        10.40       0.00
CN-PE-3626    IBRD3681A    1994    GOC                                  FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY               80.33        0.00             0.00         60.53         4.02       0.00
CN-PE-3633    IBRD3687A    1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                     TELECOMMUNICATIONS               132.76        0.00             0.00         79.19        77.68       0.00
CN-PE-3641    IBRD3718A    1994    PRC                                  YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER           248.16        0.00             0.00         89.75        25.27       0.00
CN-PE-3644     IDA26050      1994    PRC                                XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT            0.00      110.00             0.00         37.65         2.61       0.00
CN-PE-3473    IDA24750       1993    P.R.C.                             ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES               0.00      110.00             0.00         43.82        43.43       0.00
CN-PE-3509    TDA24570       1993    PRC                                CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &               0.00      120.00           27.55          24.15        44.04       0.00
CN-PE-3512    IBRD3552S    1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C             SHANGHAI PORT REST.              124.26        0.00             0.00          5.11        10.33       1.09
CN-PE-3518    IBRD3530S    1993    PRC                                  GUANGDONG PROV.                  240.00        0.00             0.00         21.43         -.59       0.00
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3526    IBRD3515A    1993   GOC                                   SHUIKOU II                        43.86        0.00             0.00         18.40        18.40      18.40
CN-PE-3533    IBRD3572A    1993                                         TIANJIN IND. II                   82.68        0.00             0.00         56.09        48.09       3.59
CN-PE-3559    IDA24620       1993   PRC                                 AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI               0.00      115.00             0.00         10.43       -12.41       0.00
CN-PE-3561    IDA24110       1993   PRC                                 SICHUAN ADP                        0.00      147.00             0.00         22.59        10.36       0.00
CN-PE-3567    IDA24710       1993   PRC                                 EFFECTIVE TEACHING S               0.00      100.00             0.00         48.24        46.40       0.00
CN-PE-3570    IBRD35810    1993   PRC                                   RAILWAY VI                       420.00        0.00             0.00        125.14       103.15       0.00
CN-PE-3580    IBRD35820    1993   PRC                                   SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.              250.00        0.00             0.00         29.05        13.49       0.00
PROTECT.
CN-PE-3581    IBRD35310    1993   PRC                                   HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT            120.00        0.00             0.00         16.15        15.17       0.00
CN-PE-3592    IDA24470       1993   PRC                                 REF. INST'L.&                      0.00       50.00             0.00         21.57        21.23       0.00
PREINVEST(CRISP)
CN-PE-3597    IBRD3560A    1993   PRC                                   TAIHU BASIN FLOOD                 88.65        0.00             0.00         64.71        62.92       0.00
CONTROL
CN-PE-3597    IDA24630       1993   PRC                                 TAIHU BASIN FLOOD                  0.00      100.00             0.00          4.92        62.92       0.00
CONTROL
CN-PE-3616    IBRD3606A    1993   PRC                                   TIANHUANGPING HYDRO              196.60        0.00             0.00         96.63        61.55       0.00
CN-PE-3623    IDA24230        1993   PRC                                FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A               0.00       60.00             0.00         33.95        20.13       0.00
CN-PE-3627    IBRD3624A    1993    PRC                                  GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P             325.00        0.00             0.00        325.00       339.43   -110.07
CN-PE-3627    IDA25180       1993    PRC                                GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P               0.00      165.00             0.00         53.50       339.43   -110.07
CN-PE-3632    IDA25220       1993   ROC                                 ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS               0.00       50.00             0.00         14.91        14.86       0.00
CN-PE-3486    IBRD3406A    1992                                         RAILWAYS V                        33.73        0.00             0u00         29.05        27.37       0.00
CN-PE-3492    IBRD3412S    1992   GOC                                   DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                  28,88        0.00             0.00          2.83          .97       0.00
CN-PE-3492    ilA23050        1992   GOC                                DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                   0.00       37.00             0.00            .42         .97       0.00
CN-PE-3503    IBRD3462A    1992                                         ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE              26.78        0.00             0.00         14.02         5.63       0.00
CN-PE-3534    IBRD3471A    1992   PRC                                   ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP              70.13        0.00             0,00         26.59        23.59       0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                           Page 105
Country: China                                                                                                           Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Difference Between
expected
Originial Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year                Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Urndisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3544    IDA23390       1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO              0.00     130.00            0.00           4.06       -3.50       0.00
CN-PE-3555    IDA23070       1992   PRC                               GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.               0.00     162.00            0.00           7.36       -6.18       0.00
CN-PE-3564    IBRD3415A    1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY                BEIJING ENVIRONMENT              32.90       0.00            0.00          28.58       27.04       0.00
CN-PE-3564    IDA23120       1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY              BEIJING ENVIRONMENT               0.00      80.00             0.00          3.69       27.04       0.00
CN-PE-3565    IDA22960       1992                                     SHANGHAI METRO TRANS              0.00      60.00             0.00          3.75         .69       0.00
CN-PE-3568    IDA23870       1992   R.O.C.                            TIANJIN URB DEV & EN              0.00     100.00             0.00         32.32       21.01       0.00
CN-PE-3587    IDA23360       1992   PRC                               RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN              0.00     110.00             0.00          1.80        -.71    -10.32
CN-PE-3624    IDA23170       1992   MTN. OF PUBL.HEALTH               INFECTIOUS DISEASES               0.00     129.60             0.00         51.41       41.10      32.27
CN-PE-3478    IDA22100       1991   PRC                               KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM              0.00     131.20             0.00           .82        -.79       0.00
CN-PE-3560    IDA22420       1991   PRC                               HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                0.00     110.00             0.00          3.22       -3.51       0.00
CN-PE-3582    IBRD3337T    1991   PRC                                 IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS             45.05        0.00            0.00          2.37       -5.15       0.00
CN-PE-3472    IBRD2968S    1988   PRC                                 RAILWAY IV                      171.30        0.00            0.00          2.04        2.05       0.00
Total                                                                                             11,370.12   4,426.80            35.30      9,283.23   3,337.36   -131.26
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               6,529.56           12,600.48          19,130.04
of which has been repaid:                 17.17            2,122.25            2,139.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              15,956.86           10,120.86          26,077.72
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :            9,283.23                4.04            9,287.27
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU N highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 106
Country: China                                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
Annex 17
China at a glance                                                          4123/19
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              East    Low-
China      Asia  income       Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        1215      1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              750       890      500                 Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                              906.1      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%6)                                        1.1        1.3      1.7      GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%?.)                                      1.1        1.3      117     per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               9
Urban population (% of total population)                31        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                33        40       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              16
Access to safe water (% of population)                  90        49       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    19        17       34             -China
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  118       117      105                  h
Male                                                 119       120      112           --Low-income group
Female                                               117       116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996    - __
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                          160.3    378.1     755.9    916.4
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                30.3     37.8      40.8      39.2
Exports of goods and seMceslGDP               5.2      9.9       21.0     19.3             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   30.6     33.7      42.5      41.3
Gross national savingslGDP                   30.6     34.0      41.0      40.0
Current account balancelGDP                  -0.2     -3.9        0.1      0.5
Interest paymentslGDP                          ..      0.2        0.7      0.6     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..     5.5       16.9     15.6
Total debt service/exports                     ..      8.4        9.9      9.8
Present value of debVGDP                       ..       ..         ..    14.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..        ..    72.3    i               Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                  -China
GDP                                  8.3      9.9     10.5        9.6      8.5         _        Low-income group
GNP per capita                       7.5      8.3      7.9       8.6       7.7
Exports of goods and services       17.2     13.6     13.2        8.3      8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996 II
(% of GDP)                                                                       d Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                  32.0     28.4       20.5     20.2    ! 30-
Industry                                     42.8     43.1      48.8     49.0      20
Manufacturing                              31.6     35.4       38.1     38.1        t
Services                                     25.2     28.5      30.7      30.8     10
Private consumption                          61.9     53.1      46.0      47.6            91   92   93   94   95   96
General government consumption                7.6     13.2       11.4     11.1                    GDI    OGDP
Imports of goods and serces                   5.0     14.0       19.3     17.1
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%J
Agriculture                                   5.4      4.3        5.0      5.1    i 40
Industry                                     10.4     13.5      13.9      12.1
Manufacturing                              13.0      13.0      13.3     11.7     20
Serces                                        9.8      9.0       8.3       7.9
Private consumption                           8.2      8.8       9.7      11.9   I0                    9           9
General govemment consumption                 9.0      9.2        ..       8.3
Gross domestic investment                     9.8     10.8       16.2     7.6    -20
Imports of goods and services                22.1     11.7      10.8      8.8                   Exports   lmports
Gross national product                        9.0      9.8       9.0       9.7
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Page 107
Country: China                                                          Project Title: Tri-Provincial Highway Project (CN-PE-45788)
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                            30-
Consumer prices                                  ..      9.2       17.1       8.3    20
Implicit GDP deflator                          -0.9     10.1       13.2      7.0    20
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                            0 
Currentrevenue                                   .,    25.5        11.4      11.5            91    92    93   94    95   96
Current budget balance                           ..      6.7       -1.4       0.5             -      GDP def. -0-C Pi
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -0.5        -1.7     -1.6
TRADE
1975     1985       199S     1996                - -                  ___
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                              ..  27,350    148,770  151,073       200.000 -
Food                                           ..   3,803       9,954 \ 10,232
Fuel                                           ..   7,132       5,335    5,929      150,000                        _-
Manufactures                                   ..  13,522    127,283  129,141                                 _       I
Total imports (cif)                              ..  42,252    132,078  138,828       100,000 -
Food                                           ..   1,881       9,126    7,866       -0                        ,. 
Fuel and energy                                ..      172      5,127    6,877       5000-f 
Capital goods                                  .. 18,694       57,481   63,901
Export price index (1987=100)                             92        133      129              so  91  92  93  94  95  93
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..       78        132      129                  jExports    I Imports
Termsoftrade (1987=100)                          ..      118        101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996    -                                           .
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                7,828   28,163    147,240  153,740       4
Imports of goods and services                8,097   41,149    135,284  141,340          __    =
Resource balance                              -269  -12,986      11,956   12,400
2-
Net income                                       0       932    -11,774  -10,370
Netcurrenttransfers                              0       171       810    1,580             .    i_                      _
Current account balance,                                                                  90   91   92   93   94   95   96
before official capital transfers            -269  -11,883        992    3,610    .-2 -
Financing items (net)                            ..   9,443      21,477   28,030
Changes in net reserves                          ..   2,440    -22,469  -31,640      -4 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              ..  16,853      80,312  111,690
Conversion rate (Iocal/US$)                     1.9      2.9        8.4      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(mittions US$)                                                                      .Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..  16,696    118,090  128,817
IBRD                                           ..     498       7,209    7,616                          A
IDA                                            ,,     431      7,038    7,579                          7616  57
25407
Total debt service                               ..   2,478      15,066   15,756                                    2501
IBRD                                           ..      26        810       840                        .    .    2501
IDA                                            ..        4        63        73                 --                    E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    21737
Official grants                                ..      117       328       248
Official creditors                            ..   1,117        7,902    4,359
Private creditors                             ..   2,867        5,013    6,454
Foreigndirectinvestment                        ..   1,659      35,849   40,180
Portfolio equity                              ,,        0       2,807    3,466                  F F
63977
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..   1,092        2,850    1,900      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         565       2,269    2,097      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                     0       364       364      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                             565       1,905    1,734    i
Interest payments                                       29       509       549
Net transfers                                  ..     536       1,396    1,185
Development Economics                                                                                                   4/23/98
Note: The dollar estimates for China's GNP per capita, GNP and GDP are preliminary figures based on an on-going World Bank study of
China's GDP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis contained in this document.



MAP SECTION



75  85'    95,                       15'                       Lie                         125'                        130'        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IERD 29472
55                  'I                                                                                                                        -.. -V.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~    i~12,i 0
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                            "7                N
KAZAKHSTAN.                                                                                                                                                       .
t~~~ LL""%zt>,.9  !  K.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                  / ~i~0NC-jiANG
UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                               -HARBIN
CHNCHN*
t    KYRGYZ                P
R~EPUBLIC
* - -  pprOc                                    /  P~~~~~~EOPLE'S
\\RNS$JAN4            N                                             REP~~~~~~~~~~~EP  OFf
MA Ph, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   KOREA~~~~~~0HCT,  jlq~KRA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~h- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     sA
CHENGDU~~~~~~~~~~~,LLTWNIRI3
CHINA                                                                 /          COGItNNIWL
TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                            h          PJ                                              J' PZC
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEMELIN
MASSE HIGHWAYS                                SE0LECTED TOWNS                                                                                            ,,      ;fSL5A
- COMPLETES                               D  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                              S 
UNJDER CONSTRUCTSON                         NATIONAL CAPITAL              .., 
- PLANNED BEFORE 2005                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES      ~        N"7                                NSNN,GA          0.
PLANNES AFERE 2005                   --NTERNAT ONAL BEOSNDARIES         :                                                        of                                                       20'-
A1    VIETNAM                                  MACA& O{P>             0     5    40    0  IE
0                                          ,  &     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISO  0 300
LAO PEOPLE'S"                                                    0420
DEW  REP                                                   400 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  o609  800 KILOMETERS
THAI LAND                                                                                     PHI-41NE
OS  ".    '.    9'                                             PHILIP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN JUE I99



IBRD) 29473
RUSSIAN      r;6i>                                              104'                     108                       112-                      116'                     12014'I
FEDERATION        "N r'.
0-  i52'                                                                        CHINA
ONOOHA                                                             TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
INNER MONGOLIA
-i   '5'                                            ~~~~~HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM52
/B,48CCC,  .4                          LGPROJECT ROADS (BAOTOU DONGSHENG
/  I  -                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& BAIYINCHAGAN-FENOZHEN)
/0  .      )                                                 PROVINCE ROADS
00 C,A                                                  ' -    INTERNATIONAL ROADS                                   E DERATION
C/fr                                                     -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS                                  T i
. ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      2                                                                                                                                            - 4 .',i\                       ;:31/vXf8.,f&fxt^
+    AIRPORTS
CC 1006!    !; 8tL') 48,                                                    -'T g Yuiyasila"----  RIVERS                                          LI ' P_                      I
C' CCX  t,, 'XJX,CC~~~~<    r'  C1~~LA1~'                0    BANNER (COUNTY) CAPITALS
- n, * } diC.ooI4i3t '!   '?                                                                         c'!->- 9<- M O N G O L LEAUOE (PREFECTURE) CAPITALS     A BIm e 6
BPS B -D    9 4                     bORNEO                                                PROVINCE CAPITAL       Ni o /                                                                             Na,       Nieh
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
102'                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           ,
-Th ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~xh
.1                                                                                                       .              .o.005N'.QI. 6h004
40,                                                                                                                                                                                    W-~~~~~~~~
GANSU                                                                             ?               "f~~Gi g Io'2
*                       0190  To Doboli
0                                                                                BA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,   ELZC YA      '4
C)INGHAI ~~~~~~~                     "",  BAYANHA                              AegcoSTmE                                               7u1u4                                      0   52  102  150  200  250             0
B                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HANxi                                                                KILOMETERS
12 0           IC7I               R                               112-          1.120'                                                                                 124A
JUNE1l9P8



CHINA
TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
INNER MONGOLIA
HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
DETAIL OF PROJECT ROADS
PROJECT:                                               o   SELECTED CITIES/TOWNS
PROPOSED BAOTOU-DgNGSHENG                                   PROVINCIAL/COUNTY HIGHWAYS
CLASS I HIGHWAY AND
BAIYINCHAGAN-FENGZHEN HIGHWAY                               NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
I   LINKING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                                      RAILROADS
o   INTERCHANGES                                           '    AIRPORTS
0   PARKING LOTS                                                 RIVERS
5    TOLL STATIONS                                        --. COUNTY/CITY BOUNDARIES
   SERVICE AREAS                                        -   - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
BAOTOU - DONGSHENG CLASS I HIGHWAY
Erzihao
/                  ~~~~~~~Guannianfan               -                                      HIIEX          ogshen
3' '                                                                                                                                   |r-
DALAD                                                                        F
,   af y v    .\q  t                  BANNER
O     5      10    15    20    25                                         , ElJIN
I     I      I      I                   /                           \KILOMErERS  -HORO
KILDME1ERS J  c,_  , ofBANNER
BAIYINCHAGAN - FENGZHEN HIGHWAY
FUTURE
.  /   r   WI  E(TTENSION
r -                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGHWAY
GAHAR RIGHT WING                       Daiuhan                                       */'
REAR BANNER                                                                        FT BANNE
FTRE                                                                                                                      K   engn
ETrENSION
HIGHWAY
,, Jinin Ci\ty'-'
li< b.-d               110        n         1
c H~p~p~~M&b, d                         '                                                 KILOMETERS
Z    shn: hes map do nDumpa: he p d i The WorldEaA  w<  5 \ \   \                     -                   >                  sO
_ a,aq dgm+helmatoaTrb arm  f7_s
esdmsemonlorm phmmofsmLL undones , _ \ , K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



IBRD 29475
I  I                               I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42'
941                  96  X                983                   Ic0                 1025                  1?09                  106'                   18                      i To-
-------------.                       -s          MONGOLIA                            7
A-                                                                  -         I '.,                                       CHINA
j 5//     ti32 - - - - '!                                     /                                               TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ToO Ur9n,,i   <7'-i2; i "2 'GANSU  HIGHWAY  TRANSPORT SYSTEM
XINJIANG    <it-
XINJIANG  /                                                                                                                         PROJECT ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MMMPOEC  ODS4-
'/'   <   t   /                                                                                                                      I3   |XUWIAMO-JEIPAICUN
'8                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& LIUGOUHE-ZHONGHE)
,,3,E  -'  J  <''-. 3--*,,sEv' f-.                                                                                                  PROVINCE ROADS
2'V / \  \\  'i   \'NA:,i.'   8>   ,i3,                                                                              NATIONAL ROADS
to-'-               ,'N!!ArUUEXPRESSWAY
A                                                                        NEI ME-N-GUL'-= RAILROADS
i / 9f 9\   4ina.. t  'AIRPORTS
't   Dunhuong  /,~ -                           i_a yuguo. 4  /        ^3')                                         ,;jj 31,i .3ii                                      RIVERS
-40                                                                                                                                                                     * 1Oil-IRE CITIES
X C35ubei Yumen ,5< :,,3j;,,3; 0j3, , 9 ,> ,) tjD COUNTY CAPITALS
OSubi,2                                                                                                                                              PRERPECTURE CAPITALS
-dzokz,         o3ixn 5o,yzo                   Zhongu  ' i                                                          /                               'Minqin         PROVINCE CAPITAL
t0  tN, Yugurzu    '       -          1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
IZ  :''~'^'+35'i:'-1f5:''            '5        \'         0cha    ng                                                        -. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
W.-;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18
38'                                                                                                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o
Huo. XinQ>     Huachi,
364'
leopAnyorpty  4o,oloITh,WoI,00ok                                            Ks -                        21TA1C+,                                 SeC 1iBRD 29476        Qingqyon       /
02 0~~~~  962                                                      H                 V/T 10                 I8~            fIGIH            -   ZpoAHsu
RUSSIAN                                                                                - -         ~       MH Il*Pniog-                                               J~io
FEDERATION          "'>' ../                                                                    Doriggln86        o 09<'-4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  1i                                                                      (j  'Dgx                 J0g19  . CoAx 0          , -  
MONGOLIA                                                                                                 -'t> 'S' *                            e
6~~~~~'   9  (V/co  (                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wu 
u',,  >mi He,ohxi.                                                                                                       w
"k,                                                                                                                           k                 Lid 6REA  1       H     A     A ~  I
~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~                                                              LJ9J                               MEn     K      Lot  dung~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.  xh
9B          I       0                       102                      10             1--08
02T92                                                                                                                              JUNE 1998~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUE19



IBRD 2947
XUJIAMO - JEIPAICUN CLASS 11 AUTO-ONLY HIGHWAY
TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gulang                                       OJingquan                                                                                 GANSU HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
o                          OuferngO)                                                                                                                                        DETAIL OF PROJECT ROADS
Haxizhen
Zhangiiagoukov
PROJECT.                                                  o    SELECTED CITIES/TOWNS
Heisongyi /                                                                                                                 PROPOSED XUJIAMO JEIPAICUN CLASS 11                      -     PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~AUTO-ONLY HIGHWAY AND
Xidatcn                                                                             AUUGOUHE-ZHONGHE EXPRESSWAY                                     NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
0                        4                                                  'OukOu   LINKING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                               RAILROADS
, gr :8  i    Xigoukou  U                                                   JEIPAICUN GULANG CLASS 11 AUTO-ONLY HIGHWAY                     RIVERS
Anyuan                                                                                                                  TO BE CONSTRUCTED WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS                        COJNTY/CITY BOUNDARIES
I .   .                                             INTERCHANGES                                            -   - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
wuSh01,n \SERVICE AREAS
4      -                                                                                         Songshan'o
'                              ~~~~~~~~~~~- Dachciigou\, \I
.' Songshantan9                 LIUGOUHE - ZHONGHE EXPRESSWAY    Skagango                                                            Gao0n
4\"                              ShupSnl Gooshpn                                                                       Shidong
7ionz9\-                                                                                        0 .
Ticniong                     .                               Jiepaicun                 4j '    4                                         Y,j,azhuangO                                                                                0 Qihe
0                                                                                 4                                                                                            P ieYiign.anan
Tanshanling                                                                                                                                             Zhuenng                  Pingxin                                           '
%                        t                    ~~~~~~~~~~         ~       ~      ~~WushenyjhSs'                                                          
n w   i6  \   %  i"s,    ^                                                                       g                       g/  Wenhshan   -
- D' 1,  aishisi   %-s <   Zhigo.xia,                        ;                                                                                         O.I 
Sainhini0        , ^ Z.           .- x                       .                                                                                      Toaugou            Z honghe
4e                                                                                                                                                                                \Z   - Ihongpbu
oangzigi.                                                                                                                                                                                    Zkongp
,0i  ~~~~~~~~~~  I ~~~~Yongden
1 4                                                                                                                                              0ZuicigShich.na
s9-1->.w4     0@o Mingle                                               isu              HanjiaIng                                                                                                                            p
0~~~~~~ /
_ lD~~~~~~~~~Tngyun                                                                   D;                                                   OAn.inbu 9  
si.  -9                                                                                                                       meOOgO
Dalanggou
\ -   .   gJ <,,^Qingbaishi
Q                               LongquLhSt- 7-                                                                                                                                           0 ongxiping
0                   Longquansi                                                                                                   af~~~~~~HboLzO non.iouu           0D
tl O Heba                                             b       t                  \                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forigjiaqoua,
,  Hongchengzhen                                                        -          \       \                               t  \           LaizibaoWo  Jinai
7,  . ,ea  d   rins  roM.  dcITu-m4  p  Dn 'c -4d --,mI~herm h ,,,e   l0  10  20  30  40  5                       I                        5            10             H uangyu -n                                            Luigouhe      H eping   Z  2niow on 0
I.IGUp, I?vdPuolhliKhLOMETERS                                                                    I I I I                                  Caijiahe                     G                           Zhnzuilin       v
:nderemulelacMep  pp lpn<pcl'wIp,pp'pILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                 OGaMlEnShEn
0                                             LO _  S   \  JUNE 19



RUSSIAN                                                       106'                                         T107~
FEDERATION                                                                                                    ToWui o
105                                                                                 /   ogigW H d n -S
MONGOLIA        i
/       K    55                                                     31
CHN
TRI-PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                       S   i ign a/    iguCiils                                                -^38--
NINGXIA HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM 2T<0^ i.
(FOE~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ iW'g KOREAiI /Au 
\OROtJO   ~           ~ /stEv  -                                                010    1/Sd l \                                    .
j~~~~~~)EK                  < wiYACIXGESau'u;
C   -    ESK3,4 t>   /9                                 \\(nhag                                  
2  -                                   tX  t                                            \  To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~? ANinyn
37'  {>~~7          To on"<U <1 >2., 1                                         ogi                Helo.                                                              3
' ngn n \>bX > , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. W=,,
4                  "                                 \    t                     oot 
'"'"~ ~)s GA:i>- f'   g 00E                                                                      ,   "'        H       iunO' <.
PROJECT:                                f.j    (8 OFOR                                                  3 R
37OP     G       -        A 'T. -                                         /
HIHA&YNH-XNDNHGWY '<'<PAnt                           L                            f~                  A
1123~~~G                   NTECAGS L<4Jz~<i'
366M   PROPSEDRVAO  WNGUNICANGA                                                                                                     T~omowo;E~yun  ;36-q
105    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
TRIPROVINCIALAHIGHWAYS                      PR JC                        f
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS    TiA SYSTEM
RAILROADS                                     z;S                                                                   f.l'
oS   AIRPORTS                        Tgo)ingning T'\i-9_  NZhoogoiog
uBGREAT WALL                                                  - 6E         L-9                              <  i-rp
RIVERS                                                              ;                               3, 
* OTHER CITIES                                             - E.                           O1'j 3                                    10,  20,  30   40   5n
O    COUNTY CAPITALS                                                  ',      f      Jnya            9i3T                oKILOM4ETERS
()PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                 u-,f  3hi                     <
()PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                ii.g-.s     i.E.ii:
*    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                 -,,{,;
-.-INTERNATIO NAL BOUN DAfRIoES'i'i                                                                                                                  f
fi                                                                     ***~..4ionRo105n                                       107_
C4



