E-2 7
NATIONAL ROAD ROUTE 210 FROM BAOTOU TO NANNING HIGHWAY
SECTION FROM BAOTOU TO DONGSHENG
AND
NATIONAL ROAD ROUTE 208 FROM ERLIAN TO HEKO HIGHWAY
SECTION FROM BAIYINCAGAN TO FENGZHENG
TE- TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT
OF INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
DECEMBER  1997



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. General Description
2. Project Description
3. Environment Condition and Sensitive Points
4. Environmental Impacts
5. Environmental Mitigation Measures
6. Alternatives Analysis
7. Outline of Environment Action Plan Environment Cost
8. Benefit Analysis Of The Environment Economy
9. Public Participation
10. Conclusion
Appendices 1: National road route 210 BaoTou to DongSheng highway
Appendixl-l  Sensitive sites along the road statistical results
Appendixl-2  Machi branch sensitive sites  statistical results
Appendixl-3 Ditstribution of Historic Relics along the Highway Route
Appendixl-4  Sensitive areas (points) resent traffic noise statistical results
Appendixl-5  Machi branch sensitive areas (points) resent traffic noise statistical
Results
Appendixl-6 Air environmental CO monitoring results
Appendixl-7  Air environmental NO, monitoring results
Appendixl-8  Building Dismantling Works
Appendixl-9  Sensitive Spots Overproof Forecast Value of Environmental Noise Statistics
Appendix 1-10 The Effecting Degrees of Sensitive Spots Atmospheric To The
Protected Goal
Appendixl-11 Noise Control Measure for Sensitive Sites
Appendixl-12 Comparison Results for the Route Schemes
Appendixl-13 Statistics Retrieved from Questionnaires for Public Consultation
Appendixl-14 Statistics Retrieved from Questionnaires for Public Consultation
Appendices 2:National Road Route 208 Baiyinchagan To Fengzhen Highway
Appendix 2-1  Sensitive sites along the road statistical'results
Appendix 2-2 Sensitive spots existing environmental noise monitoring statistical
Results



Appendix 2-3  Air environmental CO monitoring results
Appendix 2-4 Air environmental NO, monitoring results
Appendix 2-5 Air environmental TSP. monitoring results
Appendix 2-6 Sensitive Spots Noise Overproof Value
Appendix 2-7 The Effecting Degrees To The Protected Goal (In Far Term)
Appendix2-8  Noise Control Measure for Sensitive Sites
Appendix 2-9 Environmental Monitoring Program
Appendix 2-10 Comparison Results for the Route Schemes
Appendix 2-11 Statistics Retrieved from Questionnaires for Public Consultation
Appendix 2-12 Statistics Retrieved from Questionnaires for Public Consultation
2



1. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.1 The highway BaoTou to D6ngSheng is a section of the National Road 210 From NanNing-BaoTou in
Inner Mongolia. The highway Baiyincagan to Fengzhen is a section of the National Road 208 Erlian-Hekou
in Inner Mongolia.
Its construction have important political and economic significance in developing economic, cultural,
hygienic and educational undertakings in minority nationality regions and in promoting the stability and
unity on the northem border territory of country.
In April. 1996. the Communication Department of Inner Mongolia entrusted the Environmental Science
Research Institute of Inner Mongolia ( with class A evaluation certificate issued by the National
Enviromnental Protection Bureau) to carry out the work of the environmental impact assessment of the
projects. The Environmental Science Research Institute of Inner Mongolia completed the on-the-spot survey
required by the environmental evaluation outline by June. 1996. And in July. 1996. the National
Environmental Protection Bureau and the Inner Mongolia Environmental Protection Bureau organized the
evaluation and examination of the environmental evaluation outline. EIA was made ready in July. 1997
based on a great quantity of work. (on-the-spot investigation, monitoring, analysing, forecasting and public
investigation).
1.2 Aims of Working Out the Project
1) Through investigation and assessment of the natural, ecological and social environments of the to be
built project areas, to analyze and forecast the various effects and extents possible for the project to bring
about to the environments during and after the project construction period, so as to expound and verify the
feasibilies of the construction and route schemes of the project from environment protection angles.
2)To put forward practical environment protection measures, plans of environment protection and of
environment monitoring so as to reduce or eliminate unfavorable effects brought about by the project.
3) To provide scientific basis for departments of environmental designing and of environment protection
management and policy makers.
4) To cause harrnonious surrounding economic development of project spot areas.
1.3. Basis of Working Out thc Project
1.3.1 Document and Data Concerning the Credit Project.
National road route 208 BaiyinchaGan to FengZhen highway:
1) Inner Mongolia Traffic Designing Institute: "Feasibility Research Report of the Project of the
Baiyincagan-Fengzhen Section of National Road 208 Erlian-heko Highway."
2) "Environmental Impact Assessment Outline for the Project of National Road 208 from Baiyincagan to
Fengzhen Section."
3) Inner Mongolia Environment Protection Bureau document I.E.D[19973 No. 18 "Opinions on Highway
Enviromnental Impact Assessment Outline of National Road 208 Baiyincagan-Fengzhen Section."
National road route 210 BaoTou to DongSlieng highway:
1) "Feasibility Research Report of the Project for the Baotou- Dongsheng Section of Baotou-Nanning
Highway of National Road Route 210".
2) "Assessment Outline of Environmental Effects of the Baotou-Dongsheng Section of the Highway of the
National Road Route 210".
3)"Assessment Ideas of the Assessment Outline of Environment Effects of the Baotou-Dongshing
Section of the Highway of the National Road Route 2 1 0".



4)"Reply Letter of Examination Ideas for the Assessment Outline of Environment Effects of the Baotou-
Dongsheng Section of the Highway of the National Road Route 210".
1.3.2 Environment Protection Laws and Regulations
1) "Management Methods for Construction Project Environment Protection"
2) "Some Opinions on Construction Project Environment Protection"
3) "Management Methods for Traffic Building Project Environment Protection"
4)"Notice concerning Strengthening Management Work of International Financial Organization Credit
Project Environmental Effect Assessment."
5) "Implementation Detailed Rules  of Inner Mongolian Autonomous    Region building Project
Environment Protection Management Methods"
1.3.3 Environment Protection Laws and Regulations by Credit Organizations
1) "World Bank Work Guides for Environment Protection"
2) Guiding Principles 4.01 of World Bank and Attached Articles
1.4 Assessment Scope
1) Atmosphere and Noise
Within the 200 limits on both sides along the line of the Highway.
2) Ecological Environments
Current situation  investigation of ecological environments takes 500-lOOOm limits on  both  sides
of the Highway as its working scope.
3) Social Economy Environments
(1)National road route 208 BaiyinchaGan to FengZhen highway:
The project's direct effect area of Cahaeryouyihou Banner , Jining city, Cahaeryouyiqian Banner and
Fengzhen City is taken as its assessment scope, with nearby areas on both sides along the Highway route
as its stress.
(2)National road route 2 10 BaoTou to DongSheng highway:
The project's direct effect area of Baotou City, Dalate Banner and Dongsheng City is taken as its
assessment scope, with nearby areas on both sides along the Highway route as its stress.
1.5 Assessment Standards
1) Atmosphere: The Class B standards of "Environmental Air Quality Standards" GB3085-1996 is carried
out.
2) Noise: "Environmental Noise Standards of Urban Areas" GB 3096- 93 is carried out (Inhabitants: Class
4, Schools: Class 2).
1.6 Assessment Year Intervals
1) National road route 208 BaivinchaGan to FengZhen highway:
Highway construction period: 1997-2000 Year.
Highway service period: service period Short term 2001 Year
service period Middle term 2007 Year
service period Long term 2015 Year
2) National road route 210 BaoTou to DongSheng highway:
Highway construction period: 1997-2000.
Highway service-period:  Short term: 2000
Middle tern: 2010
Long term: 2020
2



1.7 Contents of Work
1) Assessments of present ecological environment situation and of the impacts;
2) Assessments of present social economic environmental situation and of the impacts;
3) Assessments of present environmental noise situation and of theirimpacts;
4) Assessments of present atmospheric environmental situation and of the impacts;
5) Environmnent protection measures;
6) Substitution scheme analysis;
7) Beneficial results analysis of environmental economic beneficial results;
8) Plans for environmental protection management and for environmental monitoring;
9) Public participation
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1 National road route 210 BaoTou to DonaSheng highway
2.1.1 Geographic Location
The Highway to be built is that from Baotou to Dongsheng, a section of the National Road Route 210
within the area of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, its starting point in Baotou City, and its ending
point in Dongsheng City. The Highway total length 103.3 km.The route goes through Baotou City, Dalate
Banner and Dongsheng City of Yikezhao League area.
2.1.2 Construction Standards
Technical Standards and Construction Standards seen Table.
Technical Standards and Construction Standards
Road section    Mileage         Construction standards       Width of
(Krn)                                      roadbed (m)
KO+000 - K10+500     10.5   Old roadbed widened full width to Class A  24.5
K10+500 - K15+200    4.7           ClassASeparationtype          Old  12.0
New  12.5
K15+200 - K40+500    25.3     Newly built full width Class A       24.5
K40+500 - K91t+000    50.5         ClassASeparationtype          Old 12.0
____________________                             ~~~~ ~~New   12.5
K91+0 0   K103+300    12.3      Newly built normal Class B          12.0
Machi  branch      12.0       Newly built normal Class B         12.0
Dongsheng Linkin Line    2.4  Newly built full width Class A        24.5
|   Total         11T7.
Note: Here in above "Old" standing for original old road sections with the old road
surface solidly repaired and "New" for newly built road sections.
2.1.3 Technical Standard
Road section               Road section
Description                standard: Class I         standard:   Class 11
Designed car running speed            100                      80       kmlhr
Roadbed width                        24.5                      12.0      m
Road surface width                    16.0                     9.0       m
Sight distance for stopping           160                      110       m
Level curve limit minimum radius      400                      250       m
Max. toprake                           4                        5      .%
Net width of big and
middlesizedbridgesurface             2 x 10.75              9+2 x 1.5  in
Road surface set-up form       Superb surfacc  (bitulith)    Superb surface  (bitulith)
2.1.4 Connecting Lines
There aze two sections of connecting lines, total length 14.4 km. Machi Connecting Line: Its total length
3



is 12 km, built to the Class 11 highway standard. Dongsheng Connecting Line: Its total length is 2.4 km,
built to the Class I highway standard with a width 24.5 m of the roadbed.
2.1.5 Bridge and Culvert Projects
Two great bridges are to be built: Yellow River Bridge 810 m long, 12 m wide; Hetonggou Bridge, "T"
type beam with 4 apertures of 30.0 m prestressing force.
Also there are to be built 2 middle-type bridges. 24 small bridges, 48 passages and 241 culverts.
For Marchi Branch Line 3 bridges of one opening, 8.0 ni long  and 1 passage.
2.1.6 Overpass Projects
For all the route 5 overpasses of interIlowing type are to be built, and 5 crossing overpasses for
highway-railroad crosses.
In Baotou City's urban areas are to be built 10 level overpasses, as well as 15 such for the Dongsheng
section.
And one overpass for the Machi Branclh highway-railroad cross.
2.1.7 Facilities along the Route
For the whole route there's one service area provided, and other facilities along the route are: traffic safety
facilities, traffic managing facilities and the fees collecting svstem ( for the whole route 4 fees collecting
stations set).
2.1.8 Investment
Investment for the highway to be built is 165 million US dollars, amounting to RMIB 1374 million yuan, in
which 45% is to be borrowed from the World Bank while the remainder settled by the Ministry of
Conmmunications and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.
2.1.9   Overall Rate of Advance Plan
June 1995-Dec. 1997       Initial stage work
1998 - 2000               Construction
End  of  2000              Completed and open to traffic.
2.2 National road route 208 BaiyinchaGan to FengZhen highway
2.2.1 The starting spot of the  intended highway is in the north to the town Baiyinchagan, in the locality
156+000, with the main control spots along the route as: Daliuhao, east to Jining, Tuguiwula, Hongshaba
and Fengzhen, and the end on the common boundary with Shanxi Province, the total length 142 km.
The run of the route is S-N.
2.2.2 Construction Scope and Technical Standards
The Main Techni-al Standard Targets
Index             Unit        K156+000 - K226+000        K226+000 - K288+000
_K288+000 - K298+000
Construction Standard                   The Class 11             Special for Class B
Roadbed Width          m                  12.0                      12.0
Road Surface Width       m                  9.0                       9.0
Designed Car Running Speet    kmlh             80                         80
Level Curve Limit Minimum   m                 250                        250
Radius                                        .
Sight Distance For Stopping  m                110                        110
Max. Top Rake          %                   5                         5
NetWidth Of _,BigandMiddlc   m              11 + 2 x 0.5              11 + 2   0.5
Sized Bridge Surface   .
4



The highwvay section fromr Baivinchlagan to Jining (K156+000-K226+000) is to be built in linc vith
general flat-hill area standards of Class 11, with roadbed 12m. wide and 9m. width of the roadsurface. The
length of this section is 70km., of which 47. lkm is the original road transformed, 15.9km. with the route 110
made use of and the branches, and 7.0km. ncwly built road.
The section from Jining to Fengzhen (K226+000 - K288+000), of mountainous-hilly area, is to be built
with the technical staridards of flat-hill area of mobile-specialized Class- 11 adopted, its roadbed 12m wide
and road surface 9.Om. of width. All length of the section is 62km.. of wvhich 3.6km. has the original route
208 utilized, 8.2km. the original road transformed and 50.2km the road newly built.
The section K288+000 - K29S+000 ,of which 3km. beiig the original route 208 made usc of, and 7km.
the original road transformed.
2.2.3 Branches
the Branches highway: I.Okm branch by Daliuhao,5.0km by Tuguiwula, both making the total of 6.0km.
2.2.4 Roadbed
When the route passing through streets of rather important towns, the roadbed is not to be raised than the
usual height.
For the transformed sections of the original highway, the roadbed is to be widened by both sides.
2.2.5 Bridges and Culverts
It is needed to build 10 big or medium sized bridges (for 592.7m. extended), overall utilize 2 original
medium-sized bridges (for 85m. extended), build 20 new small bridges (for 263.5m. extended), utilize io
original small bridges (for lOOm. extended), build 169 new culverts and utilize 39 original culverts.
2.2.6 Crisscross Works
one overpass for newly-built highway and railroad is to build. A level-crossing is to build for the highway
and the specialized railway at Daliuhao. At Jining and Fengzhen there are 3 crisscrosses utilized.
For crisscross works of provincial, county or township level roads, all are considered to build level
crossings, with 10 allover the line.
2.2.7 Facilities along the Route
Along the route there are such facilities: facilities for traffic safety and traffic management and 4 charge
collecting stations.
2.2.8 Project Time Limit Arrangement
Construction time lirmit for this project is 3 years: 1998 - 2000.
2.2.9 Investment Estimate
The investment estimated for the intended project is 359.842 million yuan (R.M.B.).
2.2.10 Road Building Materials
Steels, woods and cement needed are supplied by Jining and Fengzhen.
The rich and high-quality sand, rock and lime along the route can directly put to use in the construction of
the project.
3. ENVIRONMENT CONDITION AND SENSITIVE POINTS
3.1 National road route 210 BaoTou to I)nn,Sh," higha
3.1.1 Natural Environment
r



1) Geomorphology:
The north part of Baotou-Dongsheng Highway area is at the edge of the alluvial-pluvial plain in front of
the Yinshan Range, and the south part in the Erduose Plateau. The landform of the area along the Highway
is the south higher than the north.
Along the route geomorphology may be divided into four classes. i.e., geomorphological zones of pluvial
alluvial plain zone, river flat zone, Kubuqi Desert zone and hilly dissected zone.
2) Climate and Meteorology:
Features of the climate: areas along the route are of typical arid-scmiarid continental climates, with
strong sunshine, arid and lacking rains, rainfalls concentrated, mainly distributing in months from July to
September. Here winds are strong with plenty of sand, ranges of temperatures great, and the frostless season
is very short.
3) Surface water
Surface water bodies along the highway route to be built mainly are: the Yellow River, Hantai River
and Hetong Ditch. The Yellow River is the second longest river of China, its yearly average flow 824 m3/s,
frozen up in winter, while Hantai River and Hetong Ditch are seasonal rivers, without all year flows but with
water flowing in wet seasons or in rains.
4) Hydrology
With atmospheric precipitation as its main source of supply, the underground water along the whole
route is principally of stratum pore phreatic water of the Fourth Era, mainly imbedding in the pluvial-
alluvial strata of the Fourth Era under the plain areas of the Yellow River Bend and rivcr valleys of Hantai
River and of various branch ditches, their imbeddings shallow with rich water yield.
5) Mineral Resources
Mineral resources are utterly abundant in this area. The demonstrated reserves of Baotou's rare earth
resources are approximately over 100 million tons, accounting for 90% of the country's total reserves and
70% of the world's total reserves. Yikezhao League area is famous for its concentrated extent of resources
rarely seen in the world, mainly coal, natural gas. tronite trona. reussin, salt, all with very rich reserves, of
which coal field proved reserves more than a hundred billion tons, ore expectant 669 billion tons.
3.1.2 Social and Economic Environment
1) Population Distribution along the Route
The influenced region of the project is inhabited by many minority nationalities with Mongolians as
mainstay and Han the majority, its directly influenced area populatior. 1.722 million. The average population
density in the area along the route is 84.7 persons/km2. higher tha't the avcrage level of thc whole Inner
Mongolia, but lower than that of the entire country.
2)Social and Economic
The areas the Highway going through are the economic development zones with enriched resources of
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, having enormous latent developing capacity. Baotou City is the
greatest developing industrial city of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, a city giving priority to heavy
industry. The Yikezhao League rea is celebrated for its being the zone of resources  enrichment
seldomseen in the world. The present regional economy of Yikezhao  League area is one witlh agriculture
and animal husbandry as its mainstay.
3) Living Standards
A disproportion exists in living standards of inhabitants along the route: those of Baotou City, Dalate
Banner and Dongsheng City higher, lower for the great majority of farmers and herdsmen along the route,
and some parts being poverty stricken areas.
4) Education, Culture and Hygiene
Along the route, educational, cultural and hygienic organs mainly group in urban areas, of which Baotou
City takes a significant position in educational, cultural and hygienic conditions in the Autonomous Region,
Dongsheng City of normal level and Dalate Banner comparatively backward.
6



5) Tourism Resources
In the project influencing region, there exist comparatively rich tourism resources, but presently they
cannot be fully exploited due to causes of inconvenient traffic and communication conditions.
6) Cultural Relics and Historic Sites
There are 4 major ancient historical remains distributing wvithin 200 m. limits on both sides along the
Highway, but no historic reservation spots (areas) of State or Autonomous Region level discovered.
3.1.3 Ecological Environment
1) Vegetation and Plant Resources
In this region the vegetation assessed is of drv steppe one, with main natural vegetation types needlegrass
and thymes formation as the representative community, distributing interlaced with dry farm lands.
The region assessed has only poor plant resources. There long- run overherding has resulted in serious
degeneration of meadows. Distribution of plant species varies to a rather hiigh extent. Here in this region
there is not rare natural plant in imminent danger.
2) Current Situation of Animal Resources
Through investigation along the route, there's no rare animal of national protection in imminent danger
discovered. There are not many animal species distributed in this region except for lots of birds, besides,
numerous housekept sheep or goats.
3) Soil Erosion
Along the Highway route there exist bad soil erosion and serious land desertification, dominant in
compound erosion by both wind and water. Witlhin the assessed region, current desertificated land area
21.7 kin2.
3.1.4 Current Situation of Noise
The noise source of the two sections of Highway to be built, the one through Baotou's urban area and the
other of Linking Line near Dongsheng City proper, widened on the basis of the original roadbed, now both
sides already urbanized, is mainly traffic noise.The other regions, being rural areas, pastoral areas and
desert areas, within the 200m limits on both sides of the intended Highway route there are only 7 villages
and 4 schools, there no fixed noise polluting source of higher levels involved.
The result of monitoring shows: in the widened Higlhway route sections, current traffic noise surpassed
the noise standard mainly due to very high proportion of heavy vehicles passing through; all environmental
noise values of other sensitive plots along the route were normal by the standard.
3.1.5 Atmospheric Environment
In the intended Highway areas, chief atmospheric polluting sources concentratively distribute in the
cities and towns the Highway passing through. Within the assessed atmospheric environment along the
Highway route, except the section going through Baotou City area and the Dongsheng linking line section
near the urban area receiving the influence of the atmospheric polluting sources, the atmospheric
environments of other areas are not affected by the atmospheric industrial polluting source.
The regional atmospheric qualities are basically showing no difference. except TSP exceeding standard
recorded in the urban section of Baotou City, others areas along the to be built Highway route are all rather
clean with decent environmental atmosphere quality.
3.1.6 Environment Sensitive Points
Via surveys, within the 200m scope along the route, there are 7 villages, 4 schools, no specially sensitive
spots of hospitals, health resorts or places of historic interest and scenic beauty.
3.2 National road route 208 BaivinchaGan to FengZhen highway
3.2.1 Natural Environment
7



1) The section of the intended highway between Bayinchagan and Jining is within plain and low hill area,
and that between Jining and Fengzhen is within mountainous and higlh hill area. The total length of the line
passing the plain and low hill area is approximately 70km, and that passing the mountainous and high hill
area is approximately 62km.
2) The formation and the distribution of the ground water of the area along the route depend on such
*factors as meteorology lithology and geomorphic landform. The climate along route is arid and the water
flow of the ground surface running dry. The main source of the ground water depends on the precipitation to
make up. The ground water is generally within the depth of ten meters in the area in the north to Jining ard
buried relatively deeper in the ground in the area on the south of Jining.
3) The area of the intended project is located in mid-temporate zone of the continental monsoon climate.
The annual amount of precipitation is generally between 150 and 400 mm and is often focused within July
and August. taking up 51-58% of the amunl amount of precipitation. The yearly average temperature is
between 0 'C and 7 C. The all year wind direction are mainly inclined to northwest. The mean annual wind
speed is between 2.2 and 5 m/second. The annual humidity is inostli between 45 and 60%.
4) The ground water bodies along the intended highway mainily includes Bawang River and Yinma River,
etc. all seasonal rivers. The run-offs are mostly focused in the flood season of July and August with an
occupation of about 20-80% of the annual run-offs. In other seasons, the flow of water is very little and often
cut off.
5)There are no natural reserves in the area along the intended highway route. On both sides of the
highway, the biological resources are mainly farm crop resources and wild plants.
6) The natural conditions are no good in the area along the route with bad ecological environments. Due to
arid weathers with strong winds and rare precipitations,' the area suffers from wiind orosioDv ,
desertification and soil erosion with rains but from droughts without rain, added with large areas of land
reclamation, resulting in the unbalance of ecological environments with ceaseless extension of the area of
wind-eroding and weathered land, the advance of desertification surpassing that of harnessing.
7) There are rich mineral resources in the regions along the route, with 69 kinds now verified. Metal
mines are mainly of iron, chromium, aluminium, copper, gold, and so on, with rather big reserves. Non-
metal mines have many categories with big reserves, mainly of floatstone, fluorite, limestone, marble,
graphite, coal, and so forth.
3.2.2 Social and Economic Environment
1) The average population density in the area along the route is 105 persons/kM2, hligher than the average
level of the whole Inner Mongolia, but lower than that of the entire country.
2)The areas passed by the route are mostly of poor Banners (counties), regions of economically
undeveloped area, the regional economy giving its main place to agriculture and animal husbandry.
3)The living standards of the inhabitants along the route are ratlher low, people in most regions being
improverished, their undertakings of culture, hygiene and education also rather backward.
4) Communications here are mainly by railways and highways, without aviation and water transport.
5)The natural environments along the route are comparatively bad, rather poor in natural tourist
resources.
6)Within the 200m limits on both sides along the intended highway route, via the on-the-spot survey made
by the cultural relics departments, no historic preservations (spots) have been disovered.
3.2.3 Ecological Environment
1) In the assessed areas, the natural plant resources are poor, mainly existing plants of the grass family,
8



the goosefoots, the bean or pea family, the composite family, etc. Plant categories in the area along the route
are mostly extensively distributed species without rare plant species in imminent extinct danger.
2)The regional animal make-up is rather poor, with relatively poor species. All species are extensively
distributed ones, without rare animal species in imminent extinct danger inside the assessed area.
3)The soil categories along the route are mainly of types of chestnut soil, marshy grassland soil, blown-
sand soil and badius soil, with low contents of organic matter and deficient in nutrient, unfavorable for plant
growing.
4)Land use forms alone the roiite are principally of farming, with animal husbandry as auxiliary.
3.2.4 Current Situation of Noise
By day the noise equivalent level along the route does not excced 60 dB(A), and at night not cxceed 50
dB(A), most districts here of rather quiet ones.
3.2.5 Atmospheric Environment
The regional atmospheric qualities are basically showing no difference. During the monitoring periods,
the area's wind speed being rather high, in winter there being scarce ground surface vegetation, raising dust
on the ground surface easily formed, the air has ratlher high TSP concentration within, it surpassing the
criteria standards, but rather low NOx and CO concentrations, resulting in rather clean content of air.
3.2.6 Environment Sensitive Points
Via surveys, within the 200m scope along the route, there art 21 villagcs, 1 school, no specially sensitive
spots of hospitals, health resorts or places of historic interest and scenic bcauty.
4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
4.1 The National road route 210 BaoTou to DongSheng highway
4.1,1 Social and Economic Environmental Impacts
4.1.1.1 Impacts on Social Environmental
1) Impacts on Population
The population of the project directly effected area account for about 1.722 million.
2) Arrangement for Removal
Arrangement for removal will be in the charge of local govemments and village committees to help
settle down nearby, and compensations for removal granted by building organs. In order for arranging work
to be carried out appropriately and smoothly, there will be provided extra personnel and organs by building
units for laying down corresponding arranging measures and implementing plans. Because of not big
quantity of removal and arranging nearby, this job doesn't badly affect the living of households to remove,
and their environmental living conditions may even be renewed and improved.
3) Public Facilities
(1) Traffic and Transport
Short term: during the construction, some inconvenience for traffic will be brought about in widened
road sections and junctions.
(2) Public Facilities along the Route
299 electric- telecommunication posts will be removed. Well arranging substitution lines prior to removal
of olds will not produce affections on transmission of power and telecommunications.
9



4) Social Security
(1) Social Stability
With regard to improving mutual trust and understanding of respective nationalities of the region, to
promoting solidarity and progress of various nationalities and to maintaining social stability, it bears great
significance.
(2) Traffic Accidents
Completion of the Highway and its being put into service will extrcmcly improve traffic conditions.
consequently reduce the occurrence rate of traffic accidents.
5) Affections of Highway Separation
Corresponding passages and bridge culverts set up along the to be built Highway route may meet the need
of inhabitants on both sides of the Highway and nearby cuttinig across the route or the nceds of industrial and
agricultural production.
The Highway to be built will cut off some parts of irrigating channels, producing some infavorable
influence on partial farm field irrigation.
6) Employment
The project to be built may greatly increase employments directly or indirectly.
Peasants losing their farm land because of the Highway occupying their fields can have their work
arranged by local governments or building units or have their farm land allocated anew.
4.1.1.2 Impacts on Economic Environmental
1) Economy
The project works utterly great effects on the resources development of the region proper, and have
weighty influence on carrying out the strategy of transformation of Inner Mongolian resources anid
boosting as well as driving the economic construction of Inner Mongolia, especially its western regions.
This project construction will bring about long term important favorable effect on regional economy.
2) Industrial Structure
This project will drive the urban and rural economic development along the route, advance development
and utilization of land and of resources and guide the overall arrangement of industries tending to
rationalization.
3) Demand Level
Regional social economic developmcnt and inhabitants along the route chcrish vcry high demand level
towards this project.
4) Income and Distribution
On driving commodity circulation of areas along the route, on increasing inhabitant income along the
route and on reducing poor population, it will produce very great effect.
The quickened pace of regional development caused by the project construction has long term favorable
effects on narrowing the gap between the poor and the rich and that between border areas and inland to raise
the overall local living standards.
4.1.1.3 Tourism Resources
The construction of Baotou-Dongsheng Highway leads to improving traffic facilities. That will play a
very great accelerating role in developing tourism business of undeveloped areas.
4.1.1.4 Effects on Cultural Relics and Historic Sites
There are very few cultural relics involved in the Highway construction, and they are of rather low
protection class. Their sites can be surveyed by cultural relics departments concerned and excavated before
10



construction. The project will not ause much affectioni on cultural rclics and historic sites.
4.1.2 Ecological Environment Impacts
4.1.2.1 Land Utilization Impact
The building of the route takes up a rather small quantity of land, and the local land resources are
abundant, so the land occupied by the project makes rather small effect on land use: Along with the
completion of the highway and its being put into service, it will add value to the regional land use, raising
the usable value of the land rusources.
4.1.2.2 Impacts on Soil and Vegetation
In the course of the Highway building, great amounts of work: excavating for roads, roadbed earth
taking, throwing earth away, setting up temporary working shelters and houses, building working shortcuts,
building-persons' stepping and all kinds of vehicles rolling, on the working spots storing constructing
materials and other slugs, fields for mixing or earth excavating out, all such make to various extent
damage and pollution to the soil vegetation within the areas along the Highway route,  making some areas
of soil hardened with its nutrients reduced, vegetative covers failing to grow at normal but only with sparse
vegetation, soil constituents changed, especially most sections of the Highway, being in desert areas, easily
getting their earth desertized after the vegetative covers damaged.
Besides, after the completion of the Highway, the greenmaking design made for both sides of the Highway
to introduce greenmaking plants will change the original plant community make-up along the Highway route,
increasing the regional vegetation coverage rate in the areas along the Highway route,  bringing about
active function to the succession of plant community, making it convert in favorable direction, as well as
extremely reducing effects on soil vegetation along the Highway route made by the construction.
4.1.2.3 Impacts on Landscape Ecology
In the construction stage, the high filling and deep excavating, earth borrowing and spoil and so on will
damage the natural landscape.
In the service stage, the recovery of vegetalion and greening oln both sides of the highway will improve the
natural environment.
4.1.2.4 Impacts on Animal and Plant Resources
In the area along the route, the ecological environment mainly involves farming. All the plants and
animals are usual species. There are no rare animals and plants in imminent extinct danger distributed, so
the project building does not give much effect on wild animals and plants.
4.1.2.5 Impacts on Soil Erosion and Soil Desertification
The whereabouts of the project are arid and semi-arid areas with scarce vegetation and ratlher serious soil
erosion, and parts of the area along the route suffering soil desertification. In the highway construction stage,
the damage of vegetation and the ground surface damaged by earth borrowing and the earth spoils may lead
to partial soil erosion and the aggravation of soil desertification. The environment protection measures of the
project will favor the jobs of the regional water and soil conservation and prevention of soil desertification in
the area along the route, and executing the greenmaking and vegetation recovering programs will further
better the ecological environment along the route.
4.1.3 Noise Environment Impact Assessment
1) Construction Period
During the construction period, the noise source is the noise produced by construction machines.
Through analogue monitoring and formula calculation, the affecting distance by day is 50m, and that at
night may reach lOOm. So where is near inhabitant areas, night construction should be prohibited.
2) Servicc Period
11



Noise Impact Assessment was made at sensitive spots of 7 villages and 4 schools involved along the
route. Through calculation, in this section of the Highsway for the first row of the inhabitant area along the
route, vehicle noise impacts universally surpass-d the standards, surpassing range 0-13.7 dB(A).the 3
schools surpassed the standards, surpassing range 0.10- 3.7 dB(A). and the impacts at night were the
heaviest. Therefore, measures necd to take for these sensitive spots to reduce vehicle noise impacts.
4.1.4 Atmospheric Environments Impact
1) Construction Period
During the construction of the Highway. noise and dust will have soIIIe inpact on the rcsidcnts living near
the Highway being built. Therefore some suitable measures will be taken to minimize those problems.
2)Service Periods
Durinig the Higlhway service course, the tailgas emissions from  moLor vehicles will not exceed the
concentration value specified for the sensitive spots on both sides of the r route, thus producing relatively
small effect on the environment.
4.1.5 Other Impact on Environments
1) Service Areas
Service areas will produce such pollutants as waste gas,waste water and rubbish.
Waste gas is fume given out by boilers, which cquipped with dust removers in designs. It will not exert
much effect on the environment.
Waste water is mainly of living sewage and car-wash sewage. In the design, there are sewage treating
facilities equipped able to make waste water discharge up to the standard.
Rubbish is concentratedly stored to be buried in valleys and low-lying places.
Pollutants produced by service areas will not cause environmental pollution.
2) Coal Dust Effects of Coal Transporting Vehicles
Strictly in line with stipulation concerned to enforce reinforcing management. there will not happen  the
coal dust pollution problem caused by coal vchicles sprcading raw coal along the road.
3) The Yellow River Bridge
(1) Effects on the Water Quality of the Yellow River
Effects on the water quality of the water body of the Yellow River arc mainly in the construction period,
when within a section of the Bridge's downstream, sand and mud and oil content in the water body are
caused to increase a bit.
(2) Effects on Water Transport
The design of the Yellow River Bridge combined withi the program of water transport w ill not affect this
section of water transport.
4.2 National road routc 208 BaiyinchaGan to FcnZ,Zhen hig-hway
4.2,1 Social and Economic Environmental Impacts
4.2.1.i Impacts on Social Environmental
1) Impacts on the population
The population of the project-directly-affecting area are abovt 1.0 14 miYlion persons.
2) Relocation
There are rather vare villages spreading along the intended highway route, resulting in rather small
dismantling and resettlement of the residents all over the route, furthermore, the removed residents are
settled nearby, without unfavoroble effects produced by the resident relocation.
29



3) Public facilities
(I) Communications
In the short run: during the construction stage, in the wvidened road sections and in the intersections
inconvenient traffic will be brought about.
In the long run: the local highway communications status will be extremcly best improved.
(2) Public facilities along the route
Along the route in 26 spots the electric and telecommunication posts will be relocated, witlh substitution
lines well arranged beforehand prior to the orginal ones removed, so no influence produced on the
transmission of electric power or telecommunication.
4) Social Safety
It offers weighty significance on increasinig reciprocal trusL and understanidinig among various nationialities
of the area, promoting the unity and progress of the different nationalities, and as the result, maintaining
social stability.
5) Separation by the highway
Without enclosure screenings on both side of the highway, also without the height of the roadbed raised
higher than that of the original street when the highway passing through towns or townships, so it will not
harm the comes and goes of the persons on both sides.
In the newly-built sections of the road, there are some parts of irrigation ditches separated, whlich must be
fully considered so as not to exert effects on farming irrigation.
6) Employment
The intended project can directly or indirectly increase employees by big quantities.
As for peasants with their cultivating land lost because of their land occupied by the highway,- they will be
arranged for employment or with their land relocated by local governments or building units to have the
problem settled.
4.2.1.2  Impacts on Economy
1) Economy
The building of this project will bring about long-term very important favorable effects on the regional
economic development for the area along the route.
2) Demand levels
The regional socioeconomic development and the residents along the route cherish very high demand
levels towards this project.
3) Income and distribution
Building the intended highway will make important effects on boosting the commodity circulation of the
areas along the route, on adding the income of residents along the route and on helping get rid of poverty to
get rich.
In the long run, it will have favorable effects on narrowing the gap between poverty and wealth between
the bordering areas and the inlands and on raising the overall living levels in the locality.
4.2.1.3 Impacts on Tourism
The exploitation of the local tourist resources wil be promoted.
4.2.1.4 Cultural Relics and Historic Sites
According to surveys, there are no cultural relic sites discovered, so the highway building will not deal
with cultural relics.
13



4.2.2 Ecological Environment Impacts
4.2.2.1 Impacts on Landscape
In the construction stage, the high filliig and deep excavating, earth borrowing and spoil and so on will
damage the natural landscape.
In the service stage, the recovery of vegetation and greening on both sides of the highway will improve the
natural environment.
4.2.2.2 Impacts on Animal and Plant Resources
In the area along the route, the ecological environment mainly involves farming. All the plants and
animals are usual species. There are no rare animals and plants in imminent extinct danger distributed, so
the project building does not give much effect on wild animals and plants.
4.2.2.3 Impacts on Land Use
The building of the route takes up a rather small quantity of land. and the local land resources are
abundant, so the land occupied by the project makes rather small effect on land use: Along with the
completion of the highway and its being put into service, it will add value to the regional land use, raising
the usable value of the land rusources.
4.2.2.4 Impacts on Soil Erosion and Soil Desertification
The whereabouts of the project are arid and semi-arid areas with scarce vegetation and rather serious soil
erosion, and parts of the area along the route suffering soil desertification. In the highway construction stage,
the damage of vegetation and the ground surface damaged by earth borrowing and the earth spoils may lead
to partial soil erosion and the aggravation of soil desertification. The environment protection measures of the
project will favor the jobs of the regional water and soil conservation and prevention of soil desertification in
the area along the route, and executing the greenmaking and vegetation recovering programs will further
better the ecological environment along the route.
4.2.3 Noise Impact
1) Construction Period
During the construction period, the noise source is the noise produced by construction machines. Through
analogue monitoring and formula calculation, the affecting distance by day is 50m, and that at night may
reach 100m. So where is near inhabitant areas, night construction should be prohibited.
2) Service Period
During the service stage of the highway, the influence of the traffic noise on the sensitive spots within 200
limits on both sides along the line is relatively little, influencing relatively little on all sensitive spots along
the line except for Hongshaba Elementary School which receives a certain influence of the noise. Only in the
later future service, may the influence of noise on the first row of houses beside the road in some individual
sensitive places exceed the criteria a little to the extent of 0.1-1.0 dB(A). But the influence at night on every
sensitive spot is somewhat great, able to exceed the noise criteria in every service period of the
highway.Therefore, measures need to take for these zzn:iti.c spot to reducc -,licle noie  s..
4.2.4 Impact on the Atmosphere
During the construction of the Highway, noise and dust will have some inpact on the residents living near
the Highway being built. Therefore ome suitable measures will be taken to minimize those problems.
14



During  the Highway service course, the tailgas emissions from motor vehicles will not excccd thc
concentration value specified for the sensitive spots on both sides of the route, thus producing rclatively
small effect on the enviroiiment.
5. ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1 The projects design is adequate in respect of alignment, soil works,cultural relics ,resettlememt and
afforestation . Also, the project design of Baotou-Dongsheng highway has considered corresponding wastc
treatnures measures for the service zone to be set up.
5.2 The project EIAs has spelled out environmental impact mitigation/offsetting measures for both
construction and operation stages ,Implementation of such measures will be responsibility of constructors.To
this end ,perfect surveillance and menagement mechanism is entablished to ensure implementation of such
measures .
5.3 Corresponding mitigation/offsetting measures are proposed for traffic noise and exhaust among other
environmental impacts in the operation stage. Also,the ElAs includes provisions of two Highway sections of
Noise Control Measure for Sensitive Sites
5.4 With all the mitigation/offsetting measures implemented,any adverse impacts in operation stage will be
minimized,
5.5 Inner Mongolia minister of communications will set up a special environmatal agency which is staffed
with 4 full-time persons being responsibility for in the construction stage.When the road is completed,lnner
Mongolia Highway Management Agency Enviromental Protection Agency is responsibility of management
agency evvironmental menagement in the operation stage.
5.6 Environmental monitoring of the project is mainly implemented by the local special environmental
monitoring authoritties co-operation with Highway Construction Headquarters and Highway management
Authority.
5.7 The project-related environmental protection cost totals:
BaoTou to DongSheng highway environmental protection cost totals:30.37 million RMB.
BaiyinchaGan to FengZhen highway environmental protection cost totals: 18.283 million RMB.
15



____________                           summary of Environmental mitigation measures for construction stage
No.   Environmnental Issue                                                 Environmental Measure                                                       Implementor                        supervisor
I  removal of electric and  substitutional lines must be well fixed before removing tde original ones.                                         Contractors                The Communications Department of Inner
commnunication posts                                                                                                                                                  Mongolia
During      construction I. Strengthening trafric managem- ent at traflic conflict spots with specific persons to maintaini traffic order;  Inner           Mvonigolia Envirotunental Mlanagemenlt Agency  of
2   period   Toward  traffic 2. Before construction, for the least blocking traffic plans should be made to lessen elfects on traflic;         Communications             Inner Mongolia  Highway  Construction
hold  ups or jams        3. Encouraging contractors taking night material conveying or preparing materials in slack seasons.               Reconnalssance &  Design Authority
______________________                                                                                                                     lnistitute,contractors
ditto                     Environmental Managemenit Agency  of
Present   irrigating   or                                                                                                                                             Inner Mongolia  Highway  Construction
3   draining   systems   cut Ought to be rebuilt or reformed in proper way  through  sufficient conisultation with local persons concemned.                               Authority      Local      Environniental
across or  damaged                                                                                                                                                    Agricultural, Forestrv &    Conservancy
Departments
I.To properly arrange longitudinal allocattion of subgrade soil work:                                            ditto                      ditto
2.ro borrow soil from highlanid in case of inadequacy of embankmenit but to control the excavationi depth   with
4   subgrade soil spoil &    consideration to use of solid industrial waste materials nearby;
soil Borrowing           3.To Plave excavatioi niaterials in low-lying areas and to borrow soil from fighland for facilitating fuituire rectamation;
4.To temiiporarily put aside the cropped soil wherever it is necessary to borrow soil fronm fanmialuid or to place excavation
material in farmland, to level and to place back the cropped soil for familand recovery;
5. To strictlv control excavation depth so as to avoid borrow pits.
IT.o maximize use of wasteland or poor land and to minimize fanitland;                                           contractors                Enivironomental klanageinent Agency  of
Land       Area      for 2.TFo properly compensate for any temporary use of farmlatid according to thse duration of stcli occupation;                                 Inner  Mongolia  H ighsway  constmuction
5  Temporary Use             3.Upon completion of construction activities ,to clean the land for temporary use and to recover it;                                         Authority,Local   Environmnental   land
4.To minimize land areas for temporary use .                                                                                                 Nlanagement & Agricuiltural Departments
I Any waste msaterial resulting from bridge/cilvert coisstniction should not be let into the river channel to avioid any Contractors        Management Agency of' Inner Mlongolia
conistruction of Bridge & intpact on the flood dischalrge calpacity or original ftictio,is oftie river;                                                               Iligiwmay   constriuctioti  Authority,l.ocal
6   Culvert                  2.Not to destroy any of the river dykes and not to affect the flood discharge capacity;                                                      Environntental Agencies
3.To not narrow the original river channel.
Domestic  Sewage  from  I .To dischairge nightsoil and consumer  wastewater after siusply treated in septic tanks;                         ditto                      ditto
7   Cottstniction workers    2.Any conisumer wvastesvater dtue to conistnrction of bridges aitd culverts shall not be let irltO surface water;
3.1'to stockpile domestic trash for concentrated treatitient .
I.To select transportation route in a scientific and careful manner so as to minimize interference with the existing dtitto                 dtitto
Blown Dust Arising frons conmmunications to miniinsize hauling distance and blown dust;
8   Building        Material 2.To water the surface of the transportation route at least twice in tlhc iiorning and twice in the aflemoon (especially in the
Transportation           sutiunser )so as to reduce blowni dust;
3.To water and cover the surface of fly ash (or other solid industrial waste )and soil being transported;
4.To cover the surface of cement and liine being transported .
t.Construction material should be stockpiled beyond lOOmii leeward of any village (or residetitial site) rather than at ditto               ditto
9   Construction    Meterial windward of any village;
Stockpiling              2.To cover the stockpile in case of rainv,snowvy and windy days;
3.To stockpile any constnictiol niaterial on iseitlier bank of a river (especially a river with peniatient flow).
16



summary of Environmental mitigation measures for construction sta e
No.      Environmental Issue                                                       Environmental Measure                                                        Implementor            supervisor
I.To fumish pillar,bulldozer ,grader ,excavator and any other noise source equipment operators with  earplugs for protect their physical Contractors  Management  Agency  of
health;                                                                                                                                        Inner Mongolia Highway
10     Construction Noise       2.To keep material hauling vehicles in good condition so as to cut down noise impacts due to such vehicles;                                    construction
3.To equip high-noise equipment with sound-proof housing;                                                                                     Authority,Local
4.To suspend construction activities during night hours form 22:00-6:00                                                                        Environmental Agencies
Blown Dust due to Lime Soil 1. To centrally mix lime and soil materials;                                                                               ditio              ditto
11    Mixing                    2.To locate lime and soil mixing plants more than 200m leeward of residential sites;
3.To provide lime and soil mixing plant operators with necessary protection measures,such as gauze masks and goggies.
I.To centrally mix asphalt concrete;                                                                                       ditto              ditto
2.To provide asphalt concrete delivery systems wvith precipitation devices;
3.To locate asphalt concrete batching plants operators with necessary protection measures , such as shift work and shorter time of
12      Asphalt Smoke           exposure to asphalt smoke;
4.To provide asphalt concrete batchinig plant operators with necessary protection measures ,such as shift work and shorter time o
exposure to asphalt smoke;
5.To exercise regular physical examingations on such operators so as to replace anybody with health problems or to take other measuires
as required.
Underground Cultural Relics I.To suspend work for the purpose of protecting any discovered cultural relics;                                            dtitto             Local      Archiaeological
13  to   Be   Discovered   in 2.To report to archaeological departments;                                                                                                       Agencies
Construction               3.To provide cooperation and assistace in archaeological salvatioln;
4.To resume work when archaeological excavationi is completed and the archaeological departnent allows wvork resumption .
Set up:                                                                                                                     Ininer    Mongolia Environniental
I.The forest belt for wind-break, sand-break anid  snow-break.                                                             ommunications      Management  Agency  of
14        Aflorestation         2. The forest belt for water and soil conservation                                                                          Reconnaissince  & Iincr Mongolia  highway
3.Noiseproof'woods                                                                                                          Design  ihnstitute  . cons ructioni authorit%
4.Aflorestation along the Highway                                                                                           conitractors
5. Greening of fees-collecting stations and the service sector
ditto              Mtanagemient  Agency  of
To adopted water-soil conservancy measures are road sideslope protection, cut-slope protection, Highway shelterbelts niaking, land             Inner Mlongolia llighway
15      Water-Soil Loss         recultivation and vater-soil conservancy measures for both side slope surfaces ofthe l-lighway.                                                constructioni
Atithority,Local
Lniviroriniental Agencies
I .The protection measures for the slope of the road base                                                                  ditto              ditto
16        Land Desertification    2.Sand-break for protecting the Highway
3.The comprehensive measures for prevention fron sand  erosion arotund the fighwayv
17



summary of Environmental mitigation measures for the Operation Period
No.    Environmental Issue                                  Environmental Measure                                        Implementor                supervisor
I.To exercise noise monitoring of vehicles and to stop any vehicle failing to meet the national Expressway    Inner             Mongolia
standard from entering into the road;                                                Management,Traflic  Police Departmentof       Public
2.Any lowv-speed vehicle shall not be allowed to go on this road;                    &Environmental Monitoring Security,  Department  of
Traffic Noise      3.To enhance road maintenance and to ensure road quality;                            Departments                Communications and Local
4.To provide comprehensive measures for sensitive points %%ithout sound arresters within 200 m                 Cons ruction Environmental
from the road.e.g.provision of sound-proof forest belts,raising fences and provision of double-                Management Agency
layer glass windows.
I.To carry out exhaust monitoring of vehicles and not to allow any vehicle failing to meet the ditto           ditto
national standard onto the road;
2      Vehicle Exhaust     2.To properly maintain afforestation workes and to ensure adequacy of greenbelts;
3.Not to locate any more residential site,school or any other sensitive points xvithin a range 200 ni
from both sides of the road.
3       Water-Soil Loss     To properly protect the slope vith turf,save concrete blocks or grids,to avoid water and soil loss Expressway    Maintenance Expressway    Management
due to scouring precipitated water.                                                 Squads                     Department
I .To set up vastewater treatment facilities for treating vastewater before discharged from service Expressway    Management Local  Environmental
zone;                                                                               Department                 Management Agencies
4   Sewage from Service Zone 2.To equip the boilers in the service zones %vith precipipitators for the smoke concentration to
satisfy the national standard;
3.To enhance service szone managemeng and to remove out any trash in the rigt time;
4.To prevent any oil leakage or fire disaster from occurring at service stations near the service
zone.
18



6. ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS
6.1 National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway
There are no environmental sensitive areas (sopts) needed to be protected and passed round along
the intended highway. The content of this chapter mainly discusses the environmental sensibility in the
four route comparative schemes and the two comparative schemes for partial lines put forward by the
feasibility report of. the project and recommends the best scheme in respect of the environmental
protection.
6.1.1 Analysis of thc Substitution Route Scheme
There are four schemes of the project to be constructed.
In the third scheme, the old highway from Guannianfang (K40+500) to Dongsheng interchange
(K9 1+000) to be broadened out, considering the present traffic volume on the highway from Baotou to
Dongsheng, a subsidiary highway of 50 km for the passage of heavyduty vehicles during the
construction must be first constructed. Moreover, there are many level crossings with low linear index
in the old second-grade highway. If reforming is to be made by raising index, except that the line
location and partial roadbed earthwork of the existing highway can be used, the bridges and culverts
and road surface are practically unable to be used and all is required to be rebuilt. There is a marked
unfeasibility in both economic and teclnical aspects of the scheme.
Compared with the,first, second and fourth schemes the advantages and disadvantages read as
follows:
1) First scheme:
Advantages:
(1) Less farmland is occupied, the old highway is fully used, and the project costs are decreased.
(2) The old highway is fully used and the role of the old highway is fully played. The existing
normal traffic is also not disturbed during the reconstruction.
Disadvantages:
(1) The mileage of construction is 1 km longer than that of the second scheme.
2) Second scheme:
Advantages:
(1) It benefits motor vehicles and their rational distribution on both the old and the new roads.
(2) Most of the old highway can be used as a subsidiary highway.
Disadvantages:
(1) Because the old highway is not used when the new highway is constructed, the old highway is
not fully used without the role of the old highway played.
(2) The scale of project investment is big and costs of the project higher.
3) Fourth scheme
Advantages:
(1) It benefits motor vehicles and their rational distribution on both the old and the new road.
(2) Most of the old highway can be used as a subsidiary highway.
Disadvantage:
(1) The mileage of the road to be constructed is 1 km more than that of the second scheme.
Because the routes of the four schemes are about the same, the difference of their effects on the
environment is not great.
In the view of the volume of earthwork, a minimal roadbed earthwork is employed and two less
separate level crossings in the first scheme, the occupied area of the first scheme is by 97.5 ha and
101.5 ha. less than that of the second and fourth schemes separately.
The investment of the first scheme is 1,370,000,000 yuan (RMB). that of the second scheme is
1,650,000,000 yuan, that of the fourth scheme is 1,530,000,000 yuan.
19



According to the comprehensivc evaluation, the first schemc is recommendcd.
6.1.2 Route Analysis for the Local Substitution Schemes
6.1.2.1 Brief Introduction for the Local Route
There are two routes for the local road section arrangcd from Jiuxiao ferry to Guaniiianfang:
1) Scheme 1: Jiuxiao ferry. Luodavingzi, Banhangadu. Nanhuofang. Guannianfang.
2) Scheme 2: Jiuxiao ferry, Guanjiaving, Hetan Village. Dayaozi Village, Guamnianfang.
6.1.2.2 Analysis for the Environment Sensitivity
The two schemes are compared and analysed in the environment sensibility in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1 Compare and Analyses for the Environment Sensibility
Items to the Environment Sensibility   Schemz  I         Sheme 2
The involved sensitive villages                    8                3
The involved schools
The involved electric lines, railway and communication  many positions  a few positions
equipment along the Route
The fertile land occupied                         must            a little
Transportation of earthwork for filling the roadbed  far       local supplies for
I:==         I=:=    most zones
Interferenceto trucks c:ai-yinigconistructioniiimaterialls  big   smliall
land railway                                 _               L
6.1.2.3 Analysis Results
According to the above comprehensive analyses on the environment sensibility, the second scheme
is recommended.
6.2 National Road Route 208 Baiyinca,an To Fengzheng Highway
There are no environmental sensitive areas (sopts) needed to be protected and passed round along
the intended highway. The content of this chapter mainly discusses the environmental sensibility in the
tow route comparative schemes and the two comparative schemes for partial lines put forward by the
feasibility report of the project and recommends the best scheme in respect of the environmental
protection.
6.2.1 Analysis of the Highway Route Substitutional Schemes
There are two schemes in comparison for the highway from Baiyinchagan to Fengzhen.
6.2.1.1 Comparison of the Schemes
6.2.1.1.1 The First Scheme:
1) Strong Points:
(1) The original road is fully utilized with less engineering work, fewer structures ,less occupied
cultivated land and reduced construction costs. 195,460,000 Juan may be saved in the construction
investment.
(2) The highway goes past many important towns and villages, favorable for the local economic
development.
(3) Since this highway is built near the railway and other roads, it's favorable for joining the railway
with the roads and for the collection and distribution of the goods along the route.
2) Weak Points:
(1) The line type is poorly arranged, 10.5km longer than that in the second scheme.
(2) The line goes past many towns and villages, which must increase the interference of pedestrains
and make heavier volume of the mixed traffic by affecting driving safety.
(3) Unfavorable for the master planning for the main artery of the National Road and the highway
network. Unfavorable for the construction planning of the towns along the line.
20



6.2.1.1.2 The Second Schemc:
1) Strong Points:
(1) The route liic is well arranged and is 10.5km shorter than that Lin the first sclhcmc.
(2) The line goes past fewer towns and villages, favorable for increasing the car driving speed and
for driving safety.
(3) Favorable for the master planning for the main artery of the national road and the highway
network. Favorable for the construction planning of the towns along the line.
2) Weak Points:
(1) The investment is large, 195.460,000 yuan invested more than that ii the first scheme.
6.2.1.2 Comparison of Environmental Sensibility
1) The Present Situation of the Environmental Quality
The present situation of the environment quality in the areas the routes going through in the two
schemes is almost the same.
2) Sensibility Analysis
Scheme One
(1) The route goes past more villages.
(2) There is less removal of houses and less land taken over for use than there is in Scheme Two.
Scheme Two
(l) The route goes past fewer villages.
(2) There is more removal of houses and more land taken over for use than there is in Scheme One.
6.2.1.3 Result of thc Analvsis
Assessed comprehensively, Scheme One is recommended.
6.2.2 Analysis of thc Institution of the Partial Lines
6.2.2.1 Scheme
There are two shemes in comparison for the section from Jininlg to Huaer Village (that is K220 to
K240):
1) Scheme for utilization and transformation of the original road.
2) Scheme for straightening the line between Jining and Huaer Village.
6.2.2.2 Comparison of the Schemes:
1) The main strong and weak points of the scheme for utilization and transformation of the original
road:
(1) The line type is improperly arranged, being right angled in shape.
(2) 6.0Km longer than the line planned to be straightened.
(3) The investment is less than that in the scheme for straightening the line.
2) The main strong and weak points of the plan for straightening the line from Jining to Huaer
Village:
(1) The line is straight and reasonable.
(2) 6km shorter than the line in the plan for utilizing the original road.
(3) The investment is more than that in the scheme for utilizing the original road.
According to the analysis of the environmental sensibility degree, the area concerned in the plan for
straightening the line is the famous high yield grain area in Qahar Rightwing Front Banner. Along
the route, the landform is level, the soil is of good quality and the irrigation is convenient. If the plan is
carried out, beside the occupation of 840 mu high yield irrigated land by the roadbed, all the earth and
stone needed to fill the roadbed must be transported from places far away, which will make great
effects on the environments. If the scheme for utilizing and transforming the original road is carried
out, the original road only need be widened on both sides with almost no necessity of taking over
additional land for use. There will be little effect made on the environments.
21



6.2.2.3 Analysis Result
Analyzed in respect of the environments, the scheme for utilizing and transforming the original road
is recommended.
7. OUTLINE OF ENVIRONMENT ACTION PLAN ENVIRONMENT COST
7.1 Environment Cost
I) National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway
The investment for environment protection for the Highway section from Baotou to Dongsheng is
30.37 million yuan RMB in total.
The investment in environment protection is used mainly for:
No.              Items                              Cost
(thousand yuan RMB)
1  Water And Soil Conservation                        3,020
2  Sand Control Measures                             4,602
3 Greening:
For Service Sector, Fee-Collecting Stations, Viaducts, Etc.  300
Along Both Sides Of Highway                        15,055
4  Environment Protection Facilities In The Service Sector  500
5  Management Equipment For Environment Protection      456
6  Unearthing Cultural Relics                          1,000
7  Noise Preventive  Treatment                         1,800
8  Environment Monitoring                              3420
9  Personal Training                                   217
2) National Road Route 208 Baiyincagan To Fengzhen Highway
The investment for environment protection for the Highway section from Baiyinca,an to
Fengzhen is 18.283 million yuan in total.
The investment in environment protection is used mainly for:
No.                Items                            Cost
(thousand yuan)
1     Water and soil conservation organism measures   1000
2     Reclamation of land                            450
3     Sand control measures                           4500
4     Greening:                                       4920
5     Management equipment for environmenl protcction   609
6     Noise preventive  treatment                     3600
7     Environmental Monitoring Cost                   3120
8     Personal training Cost                          84
7.2 Orgnizational Structure Of Environmcntal Management
See Fig 7-1, Fig. 7-2
22



Environment Protection Office ofthe Bureau of Conununications
The Consrtction Command Post for the Highwa Staff size of Environment Protedion Section: 4 Persons)I
| Environmental Administration for Baotou-Dongsheng  Highway during the nstruction l             Environmental Administration for Baiyincagan-FengZhen Highway dufing the construcion
The  Highway Construction  The Highway Constructioni    The            Highway  -Fhe           Highlway    The Highway Construction      The lHighway Construction    The Highway Construction
Comimuand Post of Baotou  Comumand Post of Dalate       Construction             Construction  Coiiasand    Conuinaiid Post of liNing    Command        Post     of   Conunand Post of FengZhen
(Staff size of Environment  Banier. (Stafl'size of      Command    Post   o  Post  of  Baiyincagan    (Stafl size of Environment         CaYouQianQi (Staff size of   (Staff size of Environment
Protection Office, 2 Persons)  Environment   Protection    Dongsheng  (Staff size  (Staff   size     o    Protection    Offic,    2      Envirnosnent     Protection    Protection Office, 2 Persons)
Office. 2 Persoris)         of         Environment Environment  Protection    Persons)                       Office, 2 Persons)
Protection   Office:  2  Ollice, 2 Persons)
Persons)
Fig 7.1 Environmental Management Institutions and Personal Network during the Period of Construction
23



Environment Protection Office of Bureau of Communications
The Highway Administrative BuCeau  (Staffsize of Environment Protection Section: 4 Persons)
Environmental Adnministration for Baoto -Dongsheng Highway during the Operation Period                  Environmental Administration for T3aiyincagan-Fene7hen Highvay during the Operation Period
Baotou       Highway         Dalate        Highway    Dongsheng           tHighway      Baivincagan   Managetion        JiNing      M;anagetion     Cavouqianqi  Nlanagetion       FengZhen Managetior
Adtiinistration  Station     Adnministration  Station    Administrative     Station     Station   of  Iligh-grade        Station  of High-grade     Station   of   High-grade      Station of High-grade
Highway (staff size of       (Stafn    size      o     (Staff size of  Environment      Highway  (stall' size  o        Highway (staff size of      Highway  (staflf  size  of     Highway (stafl size of
Environunent lProtectioni    Environment               Protection      Office:   2      Environuent    Protectionl     Enivironment Protection)    Environment   lProtectioni     Environmiient
011ice: 2 personis)         Protection    Oflice: 2    Persons)                        Office: 2 persons)              Oftice: 2 persons)          0111ce: 2 persons)             Protection  Oflice: 2
Persons)                                                                                                                                              persons)
Fig. 7-2 Environmental Administration Institutions and Personal   Networ-k    during the Operation Period.
24



During the period of construction, in each section, there is one person concurrently holding a post
on environment protection and taking charge of the daily monitoring on environment protection.
7.3 Personal Training
1) The persons holding a post concurrently on environment protection will be trained by the
Communication Bureau of Inner Mongolia.
2)The persons holding a part time post concurrently on environment protection during the
construction will be trained by the Construction Command Post for the high-grade Highway.
See Table 7-1.
Table 7-1                 Plan For Environmental Training                      USD  $ 1 =RMB 8.3 yuan
No.  Target of Training At-Home Training       Overseas Training   =   Total Cost
No.  o Person- Cost    No. of Person- Cost   RMB   USD            USD            Remarks
Person  Month  (RMB)  Person  Month  (US1D)                    Equiivalenit
I  Training of High-                            2       2     18560           18560   18560  iManagernent &  Supervision
Level staff                                                                                of Environmental Projects
2  Administration  for   7      7     49000                           49000            5903   Regulation &  Administration
Environrnental                                                                             for Enivironmental Protection
Protect
3  Environmental        7       7     49000                           49000            5903   Environmental Engineering &
Engineering    &                                                                           Tcchnology,and  Analysis  ot
Technology                                                                                 Environrmental Data
4  Environment          7       7     49000                           49000            5903   Regulatory    Environmental
Supervision                                                                                Supervision
5   Total                    __1__        XF_____                     147000          36269
7.4 Equipment Expense
The administrative persons in charge of environment  protection   need some working equipment.
The equipment expense is estimated at 1066 thousands yuans (RMB). See table 7-2.
Table7-2                  Working equipment table
Nomenclature Numerical   Spending                                     Remarks
l  10' Yuan )                                                                   I
Computer         7           14      Each wltere one set for Baotou, DalateQi , Dongsheng, BaiYinCaGan,
l__ __I_|_lJiNing. CaYouQianQi Bainerand FengZhen' headquarters
Operating        7           84                                      ditto
vehicle   |_l_l_._l
Camera         7           1.4                                      ditto
Pickup camera      7           4.9                                     ditto
Talk back        14          2.4      Each where two set for Baotou, DalateQi , Dongsheng, BaiYinCaGan,
machine   |            l                     JiNin_. CaYouQianQi Bannerand FengZhen 'headquarters
7.5 Environmental lUonitoring
1 ) Monitoring Contents
The main respects on monitoring are the implementing conditions and operation status of the
environmental protective facilities.
Items for monitoring of the natural environient: atmosphere, noise, surfacc water.
For monitoring and measurement of the ecological environment: ecosystem, vegetation   recovery,
planting trees, water and soil conscrvation and soil erosion by desetification.
For monitoring  of the  social environment: tracing  investigation  for the  removed  residents,
25



roadblocks during the construction and work spot clearing after the construction.
For monitoring of the polluting sources in the service area: waste gas, waste water.
2) Monitoring Methods
The methods of monitoring and measurement for the natural environment include: distributing thc
spots, sampling, analyses and data treatment and such technical links. All procedures are carried out
according to the unified Standards issued by the National Bureau of Environment Protection and thc
departments concerned.
The monitoring and measurement for the ecological environment and the social environment will be
carried out with the method of on the spot investigation.
3) Data Treatment
The statistics, treatment and analyses of data will be carried out with computers, using floppy discs
for transmitting the measured data.
4 )The Institutions for Monitoring
The local stations of environment protection are in charge of monitoring for atmosphere, noise,
ground water and partial ecological environment. The Highway Construction Command Post and the
stations are in charge of monitoring for social environment and partial ecological environment.
5) The Report System for Monitoring
(Shown in the following block diagram)
Inner Mongolia Bureau of     Environment Protection Office     The World Bank
Envnment Proetion           of the Bureau of Communications
Local Bureaus of            The Highway Construction Command Post
Environment Protection     (Renamed: The Highway Administrative Bureau)
T
The Highway Construction Command Section
(Renamed: TheHi Lhwvay Admnsrtv Setonal
Local Environment Monitoring Stations
Fig 7-3 The Report System for Monitoring
8. BENEFIT ANALYSES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMY
8.1 National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway
8.1.1 Economic Assessment
1) Assessment on the National Economy
Assessment results issued by "The Report on Feasibilities" are as follows:
EIRR=32.6% ENPV=2259.13 million RMB EBCR=3.66
The assessment results demonstrate that this project has very good economic benefits.
According to the analyses on the sensibilities of the national economy, this project has very good
capability against risks.
2) Assessment on Finance
The assessment results are as follows:
FIRR=7.7% (After tax) FNPV=751.72 million RMB (After tax) FBCR=1.44(After tax)
This project has very good benefit capacity on finance.
26



According to the analyses on the financial sensibility, the project has very good capability against
risks.
3) Analyses on Refundable Capability for Loan
This project has good refiundable capability for loan.
8.1.2 Benefit and Loss Analyses on Environmental And Economic
8.1.2.1 Analyses on Benefits
1) Social Benefits
The construction of Baotou-Dongsheng highway will bring the following social benefits: the project
will
(1) Play important and promotive roles in exploiting the local mineral resources, carrying out the
strategic transformation of the resources in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and promoting the
economic construction of Inner Mongolia.
(2) Have an ijmportant significance in enhancing the trust and understanding each other among the
nationalities, promoting the national unity and progress and making the society stable.
(3) Play an important role in increasing income for the people living near the highway area and
decreasing the poor population in the area.
(4) Promote the exploitation of the local tourism resources.
(5) Increase the amount of local employment and decrease the pressure of employment.
(6)Significantly improve the conditions of local transport.
(7) Decrease traffic accidents.
2) Economic Benefits
The construction of Bao-Dong Highway will bring about bigger economic benefits for the highway
area.
On direct economic benefits, analysis on the national economy shows: the economic net increment
value will reach 2259.13 million RMB (2.25913 billion RNIB).
As indirect economic benefits, the highway will promote the formation of the industrial zone and the
development of comprehensive services along the road.
3) Environmental Benefits
(l) It will improve the atmospheric and noisy environment beside present Route 210 highway
section from Baotou to Dongsheng.
(2) It will promote the work on water and soil conversation and improve the work on protection
against sand in the highway area.
(3) It will make abundance and variety of products.
(4) The natural environment will be improved through planting trees along the highway.
8.1.2.2 Loss Analyses
The project will produce the following loss:
l)Compensation for the occupied land;
2) Compensation for the removed households;
3) Polluting atmospheric environment by vehicle tail gas;
4) Producing noise pollution with vehicle transport;
5) Paying funds for the environmental protective measures.
8.1.2.3 Analyses for Benefit and Loss
The benefit of the project will be much more than the loss, so the project is good and feasible.
8.2 National Road Route 208 Baiyincagan To FengLhen Highway
8.2.1 Economic Assessment
8.2.1.1 Assessment on National Economy
1) Evaluation of national economy
Assessment results issued by "The Report on Feasibilities" are as follows:
27



EIRR=20.52%    ENPV=1995.5 millioni RMB   EBCR=1.82
The assessment results demonstrate that this project has very good economic benefits.
According to the analyses on the sensibilities of the national economy, this project has very good
capability against risks.
2) Assessment on Finance
The assessment results are as follows:
FIRR=10.63% (After tax)  FNPV=537.54 million RiMB (After tax) FBCR=2.03 (After tax)
This project has very good benefit capacity on finance.
According to the analyses on the financial sensibility, the project has very good capability against
risks.
3) Analyses on Refundable Capability for Loan
This project has good refundable capability for loan.
8.2.2 Benefit and Loss Analyses on Environmental And Economic
8.2.2.1 Analyses on Benefits
1) Social Benefits
The construction of the Baiyincagan to Fengzhen highway will bring about social benefits in the
following respects:
(1) Giving great facilitation in exploiting and utilizing the mineral rcsources in the area to convert
the rich resources superiority into economic superiority to develop the economic, cultural, hygiene and
educational undertakings etc. in the minority nationality regions.
(2) Have an important significance in enhancing the trust and understanding each other among the
nationalities, promoting the national unity and progress and making the society stable.
(3) Play an important role In increasing income for the people living near the highway area and
decreasing the poor population in the area.
(4) Increase the amount of local employment and decrease the pressure of employment.
(5)Significantly improve the conditions of local transport.
2) Economic Benefits
The construction of Baiyincagan-Fengzhen Highway will bring about bigger economic benefits for
the highway area.
On direct economic benefits, analysis on the national economy shows: the economic net increment
value will reach 199.55 million P,MB.
As indirect economic benefits, the highway will promote the formation of the industrial zoie and the
development of comprehensive services along the road.
3) Environmental Benefits
(1) The measures taken for water and soil conservation in the construction of the highway not only
reduce the soil erosion volume added by the construction of the highway but also reduce the soil
erosion volume of the primary ground surfacc, so that the soil erosion on both sides of the highway will
be brought under control and the building of the original ecotope will be promoted.
(2) The various measures taken for protecting the ecotope promote the local water and soil
conservation and sand-prevention and sand-fixation to improve the microclimate conditions, favorable
for the growth of the natural vegetation, so that the regional soil erosion and wind-erosion-
desertification as well as sand formation will be reduced.
(3) Enriching the varieties of species by means of planting trees and recovering the vegetation so as
to improve the ecotope along the route.
8.2.2.2 Loss Analysis
The project will produce the followNing loss:
1)Compensation for the occupied land;
2) Compensation for the removed households;
3) Polluting atmospheric environment by vehicle tail gas;
4) Producing noise pollution with vehicle transport;
2S



5) Paying funds for the environmental protective measures.
8.2.2.3 Analyses for Benefit and Loss
The benefit of the project will be much more than the loss, so the project is good and feasible.
9. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
9.1 The Scope of Public Participation
1) National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway
The scope of public participation is the area impacts directly by the project, i. e. Baotou City, Dalate
Banner, Dongsheng City and the zone along the Highway.
2) National Road Route 208 Baiyincagan To Fengzhen Highway
The scope of public participation is the area impacts directly by the project, i. e. Baiyincagan ,
Jining City, Cahaeryouyiqianqi Banner, Fengzhen City and the zone along the Highway.
9.2 The Mode of Public Participation and the Main Participators
The modes of public participation this time are as follows:
1) Invite the local environmental workers to take part in inspection for "Thc Outline of Environment
Impact Assessment " and "The Report of Environment Impact Assessment".
2) Specially visit the people's representatves and the other representatives of the academically
associations,the mass groups and the village resident committees.
3) Invite some departments and persons concerned to attend the discussion meetings.
4) Issue public investigating questionnaires.
(1) National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway: A total of 400 questionnaires were
issued and 342 questionnaires were recalled actually.
(2)National Road Route 208 Baiyincagan To Fengzhen Highway: A total of 400 questionnaires were
issued and 400 questionnaires were recalled actually.
9.3 Public Consultation
1)The local goverment and public opinions have been incorporated in dcsign slage of thc road And
the design has considered the local interests as far as possible.
2) In the EIA process,representatives from the local environmental agencies have gathered to
discuss and finalize sensitive points deserving focus of the EIA .
The local responsible environmental agencies have also reaclhed agreement on the EIA standards.
3) What the local people are concerning .about is the project land coverage and copensation,and they
hope that proper compensation be made in accordance with the provincial compensation procedures in
the light of the local reality.They also hope this work should be open in order to ensure fair and
reasonable compensation.
4) At the EIA outline review meeting ,experts and representatives from the environrmental agencies
expressed their view on the environmental concerns and highlights of the EIA .AII the comments and
recommendations of the meeting participants have been considered in the EIA .
- 5) In the investigation ,those people whose housings will be relocated will agree to remove from
their land afer they get proper compensation,they hope they can be resettled elsewhere in the origional
villages.
9.4 The Public Views and Suggestions
29



1) The Construction of Baotou to Dongsheng section into a high-grade highway and Baivincagan To
Fengzhen Highway is welcomed and supported by the public of the area along the road.
2) The Specific Problems Concerned by the Public
(1) Reasonable Arrangements for the Resident Removal
Each resident household having to remove pays utter attention to the rcmoval affecting their vital
benefits. So when carrying out the removing work iinvestigation of each household to fix specific
compensation expenses according to the stipulations of the Government should bc well arranged and
specific persons should be authorized to take charge of this work.
(2) Occupied Farmland and Facilities
Some farmland occupied by the Highwav involving farmers' living and their production  must be
reasonably arranged according to the stipulations concerned, making reasonable compensation for the
occupied farmland and facilities damaged.
(3) The Separationi Problem
(   The highway may separate some villages or individuals' farmland into two parts so that the natural
connection will be cut by the road.This problem will make their living and production  inconvenient.
It is important to listen to the public opinions during the design. The passage should be considered to
specially set up. The separated farmland should be adjusted and culverts for irrigation canals well
arranged.
(4) Environmental protection facilities
In Public investigation, all the participants requested that the ccological environment be well
protected when building the Highway. Many people recommended planting trees along the highway
and make the Highway section to be built into a "Green Corridor", reduce the pollution caused by the
traffic, and raise the natural environmental quality.
For the specific questions or problems put forward by the public during the intention investigation,
the recommended relevant countermeasurcs arc stated in the scction "Environment Mitigation
Measures" of The EIA.
10. ASSESSMENT CONCLUSION
10.1 National Road Route 210 Baotou To Dongsheng Highway
1) The intended Highway will extremely improve the transportation conditions from Baotou to
Dongsheng area bringing considerable social and economic benefits for these areas, also playing
important roles in promoting exploitation of the local mineral resources, making the overall economy
in these areas rapidly develop, enhancing the unity among the nationalities in  the minority area and
making the society stable, increasing income for the people living in the poor areas along the highway
and reducing the poor population, as well as developing local tourism cause.
2) The Highway construction involves less cultural relics and no protection areas of cultural relics at
the levels of the state and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. In order to protect thc historic relics,
the construction work should not be started until the prospecting and unearthing of relics arc carried
out by related administrative departments of cultural relics.
3) The project has not much house removing and settlement work involved. The working plan will
be drawn up in details for the land requisition, house-removing and settlement, and someones will be
put in charge of these affairs. All this work will be finished by the end of December, 1997.
4)The intended Highway can alleviate traffic jams on the present National Road Route 210 and
mnitigate the atmosphere and noise pollution along the road, making evident effects on improving the
traffic conditions.
5)The intended Highway will occupy some land. However, there being rich land resources in these
30



areas, the effect exerted by the project is not quite serious. The highway will make increment in value
for the land in these areas and have its utilized value improved.
6)The ecological environment along the Highway is mainly of farming, species of plants and
animals all of general kinds, no rare plants and animals in imminent danger, so the influence on the
wild plants and animals around is not quite big.
7)The project is located in the arid or semiarid region, with sparse vegetation, bad water and soil
erosion and land in the part of areas desertified. The excavation and fill of earth and stone, for the
construction of the planned highway, will partially transform the topographic features of the areas
along the route. The destruction of the vegetation and earth surface due to borrow  and spoil of earth
may cause partial soil erosion and worsen land desertification. The use of  the environment
protection measures for the project will be helpful for the water and soil conservation and the
prevention of land desertification in some areas along the highway. By implementing the greening and
vegetation recovering project, the destroyed vegetationi can be recovered gradually, thus optimizing
and beautifying the ecological environment along the route.
8)During the construction of the Highway, noise and dust will have some effect on the residents
living near the Highway being built.Therefore some suitable measures will be taken to minimize those
problems.
9)During the Highway service course, the environmental noise at the sensitive spots within the
range of 200 meters limits on both sides of the Highway is beyond the specified level in most cases,
more serious at night than by day, and the impact of noise on the sensitive spots will become stronger
with the increase of the traffic volume. So it is necessary to take some   comprehensive
countermeasures to minimize the effect made by the noise.
lO)During the Highway service course, the tailgas emissions from motor vehicles will not exceed
the concentration value specified for the sensitive spots on both sides of the route, thus producing
relatively small effect on the environment.
1 l)Each measure for environment protection recommended in The EIA should be carried out
during the periods of design, construction and service. After these measures are carried out, some
negative influence can be diminished or lowered to an acceptable level.
12)The plans recommended in the alternative plans are all decided in the preliminary design
documentation.
13)The economic benefits of this project are evident. The recovery time for investment is reasonable
and the project has a certain capability against the risks.
The total investment on environment Measures is 30.37 million yuan.
14)The public along the highway are active in supporting the intended Highway. Their main
problem concerned is about compensation for land for use taken over, removing and settling down.
The construction units should make explanation to them and give them reasonable compensation.
15) From the view of environment protection,   the  highgrade  Highway from Baotou to
Dongsheng is a good project with its route reasonable and its benefits considerable. The project can
be realized.
10.2 National Road Route 208 Baiyincagan To Fengzhen Highway
l)The intended Highway will extremely improve the transportation conditions from BaiyinCaGan to
Fengzhen area bringing considerable social and economic benefits for these areas, also playing
important roles in promoting exploitation of the local mineral resources, making the overall economy
in these areas rapidly develop, enhancing the unity among the nationalities in the minority area and
making the society stable, increasing income for the people living in the poor areas along the highway
and reducing the poor population, as well as developing local tourism cause.
31



2) According to the initial on-the-spot investigation . no identified cultural relic spots have been
found along the intended highway. If cultural relics are found during the construction, the construction
work should be stopped and the relevant cultural relic department should be informed. The
construction can't be continued until the relics are unearthed and well arranged. The project
construction won't affect the cultural relics concerned along the route.
3)The project has not much house removing and settlement work involved. The wvorking plan will be
drawn up in details for the land requisition, house-removiig and settlemcnt, and  soieonces will be
put in charge of these affairs. All this work will be finished by the end of December, 1997.
4)The intended highway occupies rather little land and the occupation of the land has rather little
effects on the utilization of the land. Along with the completion of the highway, and its being put into
service the land along the route will get increment in value, raising the usable value of the land
resources.
5)The ecological environment along the Highway is mainly of farming, species of plants and
animals all of general kinds, no rare plants and animals in imminent danger, so the influence on the
wild plants and animals around is not quite big.
6)The project is located in the arid or semiarid region, with sparse vegetation, bad water and soil
erosion and land in the part of areas desertified. The destruction of the vegetation and earth surface due
to borrow and spoil of earth may cause partial soil erosion and worsen land desertification. The use of
the environment protection measures for the project will be helpful for the water and soil conservation
and the prevention of land desertification in some areas along the highway. By implementing the
greening and vegetation recovering project, the destroyed vegetation can be recovered gradually, thus
optimizing and beautifying the ecological environment along the route.
7) The present situation of the sound environment along the intended highway is relatively good.
The on-the-spot monitoring results show that no monitoring spot record surpasses the noise criteria.
8) The influence limits of noise from the operating machines in the daytime during the stage of the
construction: the noise criteria beyond 50 meters are all below 70 dB(A) and those beyond 100 meters
are all below 60 dB(A). Broader influence limits from the operating machines may appear at night.
The noise criteria of the most operating machines may be up to 55 dB(A) about 100 meters away and
the strong noise may reach 55 dB(A) beyond 300 meters or so. Some measures are to be taken during
the construction in order to reduce the influence on the inhabitant around.
9) During the service stage of the highway, the influence of the traffic noise on the sensitive spots
within 200 limits on both sides along the line is relatively little, influencing relatively little on all
sensitive spots along the line except for Hongshaba Elementary School which receivcs a certain
influence of the noise. Only in the later future service, may the influence of noise on the first row of
houses beside the road in some individual sensitive places exceed the criteria a little to the extent of
0.1-1.0 dB(A). But the influence at night on every sensitivc spot is somewhat great, able to cxcecd the
noise criteria in every service period of the highway. Therefore, the comprehensive measures must be
taken to reduce the influence of noise to the minimal extent.
10 )The present situation of the atmospheric environment in the arca along the intended highway is
rather good. The on-the-spot monitoring results show that, except for a higher TSP background value
for other targets, rather clean results are recorded with relatively low conentration values of every
monitoring spot.
I I)During the construction of the  Highway, noise and dust will have  some  inpact on the
residents living near the Highway being built. Therefore some suitable measures will be
taken to minimize those problems.
12)During the Highway service course, the tailgas emissions from motor vehicles will not exceed
the concentration value specified for the sensitive spots on both sides of the r route, thus producing
32



relatively small effect on the environmient.
13)Each measure for environrment protection recommended in The EIA should be carried out
during the periods of design, construction and service. After these measures are carried out, some
negative influence can be diminished or lowered to an acceptable level.
14)The plans recommended in the alternative plans are all decided in the preliminary design
documentation.
15)The economic benefits of this project are evident. The recovery time for investment is reasonable
and the project has a certain capability against the risks.
The total investment on environment protection is 18.283 million yuan.
16)The public along the highway are active in supporting the intended Highway. Their main
problem concerned is about compensation for land for use taken over, removing and settling  down.
The construction units should make explanation to them and give them reasonable compensation.
17)From the view of environment protection, the Highway from BaiYinCaGan to FengZhen is a
good project with its route reasonable and its benefits considerable. The project can be realized.
33



C-)~~~~~~~~
:~~~
V~ ~    ~ ~~~~~ X  Pop!^s's R c puiDl  o f C hina 
o~~
ig Li, 1-C I    Geocr-ap'l-iIcalH poSitLiOIl m--ap of Innr.-IiJioncrolia
Aut-onlomois-Resion China



At                        '
4~~~ %
Ru.sl , 
r- G                                      : r
kA   Z.  11 ,'yF^K8^   
I,   r
/P
At.'
C,y            ,. !         j       '4
A4Ii*ve  Pstilima.,'_g prK.ect   ,i,t e te 
j   1 X   6G>\                      It    I*lolsglalil       (       4      /                03Xi    j4/}~~N       \ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.**
J  IA  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Figuire 3    Existinlg Enlviroinmenital Coniditioni Map
16~      ~ ~     .TT~Thf'f~                                                                                                                      ''                   
!V                             -* 4"-F' --4hr                         .~N<~;~\  p~/B 
A>  .'AJ  ~t 
*  .~~~~    .  /  .  . ~~~~~~~~~ 2Y-'~~~~~1:'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                '~~~'                                            Legend~~~~-A
J I. ~  ~               ~;            t    I4                          I     '       _ _ _  _  _   _



f<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i i.  _    .
i~~~~ ~  ~~~~~   ......   ...  . ...   -



Part B: Gansu



Tue People's Republlic of 'ClJiiw
Nationtal Trulnk Road 312 ill Gainsu provintce
Lligouhe-Zhonghe and Xiijiamo-Gnilang Section
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(Revised V'e,rsion)
Lanzlhou Univei-shiy - X Adii lhighway Uniiversity
Dec. 1997



ABBREVIATION
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
GPCD           Gansu Province Communications Department
GPCPDI         Gansu Province Communication Planning and Designing Institute
GPEPB          Gansu Environmental Protection Bureau
NEPA           National Environmental Protection Agency
PDNC           Planning Department of MC
iLZ            Liugouhe-Zhong.e of ihe Highway
X-G            Xujiamo-Gaolan Section of the Highway
EP             Environmental Protection
EAP            Environmental Action Plan



CONTENTS
I GENERAL .................................................. 
1.1 PURPOSE  OF EIA ..................................................   1
1.2 BASES FOR THIE EIA  RFPORT .................................................                                                    2
1.3 SCOPE AND STANDARDS OF EIA .................................................                                                    2
1.4 ASSEsSMENT PERIODS: .................................................. 3
1.5 AsSEsSMENT METrIODS .................................................                                                           3
2 PROJECT DESCRRIPTION .................................................                                                            4
2.1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION OT L-Z  SECTION .................................................                                           4
2.2 PROJECT DEscRIPrIoN OF X-G  SECTION ................................................. 6
3. ENVIRONMENTAL COND1TION  AND SENSMTVE POINTS .................................................. 1 0
3.1 ENVrRONMENTAL CONDITION .........                          .................................I......10
3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL SENsrrIvE PONrs .................................................                                                13
4 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PREDICITION .................................................                                               16
4. 1 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF L-Z SECTION .................................................                                         1 6
4.2 ENVIRONMENT IMPACT OF   X-G  SECTION .................................................                                         21
5 NMTIGATORY MEASURES AND SUGGESTIONS .................................................                                            29
5. 1 MITIGATORY M            EASURES AND SUGGESTION OF L-Z  SECTION .................................................               29
5.2 MITIGATORY MEASURES AND SUGGESTION OF X-G  SECTION . ................................................ 33
6 ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS . ............................... 35
6.1 ALTERNATIVF ANALYSIS OF L-Z SECTION ................................ 35
6.2 ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS OF X-G SECTION ................................                                                           36
7 OUTLINE OF EAP AND ENVIRONMENTAL COST ...........................................                                                40
7.1 OUFLINE OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN ....................................                                                      40
7.2 0RGALSa                     C3oF        o     ENK ALm                 s    UIMON ................................................. 46
7.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING .................................................                                                     47
7.4 EQUIMENT   FOR ENVIRONMNTAL MoNIToRiNG ............                      ............................................................... 49
7.5 ENVIRONMNETAL PERSON TRAINING ..................................... 49
7.6. TOTAL NET COST OF ENVIRONMENT ....................................                                                            49
8. BENEFTT ANALYSIS OF ENVORONMENT AND ECONMY .............................................1 S
8.1 ECONOMIC BENEFIT ANALYSIS .............................................                                                        51
8.2 SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT BENEFIT.                                                             ............................................. 5 1
9 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION .............................................                                                               52
9.1 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION OF L-Z SECTION .............................................                                              52
9.2 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION OF X-G  SECTION ............................................. 55
9.3 THE PLANNED WORK OF THE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION WHEN EIA, EAP AND ES ARE COMPLETED ..57
10 CONCLUSIONS: .............................................                                                                      58
1 0. 1 CONCLUSIONS OF L-Z SECTION ................................ 58
10.2 CONCIUSIONS OF X-G SEC-ION .......................... 60



1 General
The Liugouhe-Zhonghe Highway(hereafter referred as to  "L-Z") and the
Xujiamo-Gulang highway (hereafter referred as to "X-G") are two sections of National
Trunk Road312 Shanghai-Yining and Lianyungang-Horgous in Gansu-Province. The
Road 312 is one of the arteries of traffic connecting -Western and Eastem China. With
the opening of Asian-European Continent Bridge. the interior economy in China will be
centered on and there will be more economic dealings of Xinjiang with other part of the
country. The present Liugouhe-Zhonghe highway, low in grade, seriously streetlike
jammed with traffic, and frequent with accidents, goes from east to west through the
city proper of Lanzhou, capital of Canstu Province. With the economic growth in China
and the economic development in the northwest region, the highway can no longer
satisfy the traffic need, so L-Z Highway should be built as early as possible. In
addition, the counties which the route of X-G section passes (Yongdeng, Tianzhu and
Gulang), are of the economically developing belt which is rich in natural resources.
Also. the X-Z road is an access to the Hexi Corridor called the bam in Gansu. However,
the existing Xujiamo-Gulang Highway can no longer meet the requirements of rapid
growth of economy as a national trunk artery due to low in grade, numerous crossings,
frequent with accidents and, as a result, low transport efficiency. Thus, it has held back
the economic growth in Lanzhou City and its neighbouring countries. So, it is very
necessary and also urgent to build the X-G road as earily as possible. Therefore, Gansu
Province plans to get a loan from the World Bank to build thoes sections of the road.
Entrusted bv GPCDI in compliance with the ELA requirements of the World Bank,
Lanzhou University completed the EIA reports and EAP of L-Z section in 1997, Xian
Highway University completed the EIA reports and EAP of X-Z section in 1997.All of
the documents are approved by NEPA.
1.1 Purpose of EIA
(1) To determine the target of environimenital protection by surveying present
situations of natural environment and social surroundings along the route;
(2) To predict and assess the impact on the environment on both sides during
construction and operation phases;
(3) To analyze the positive and negative impact on both sides of the road, put
forward necessary environmental mitigatory measures to minimize the adverse impact
appTopriately to keep highway construction in step with environmental protection;
(4) To provide evidences for the engineering design of environmental protection
and environmental management of the section.



1.2 Bases for the EIA Report
(1) "Environmental Management Methods for Construction Projects" issued by
NEPAC No 003(86);
(2) "Environmental Management Methods for Traffic Construction Projects" issued by
MOC No 17.(90):
(3) "A Circular Letter on Strengthening ETA of Projects Usilng Loans from
International Finance Organizations" No 324(1993);
(4) Review of the Pioject Proposal of Lanzhou Liugouhe-zhonghe Highway issued by
PDMC. Letter No.622(1994):
(5) Feasibility Research Report on Lanzhou Liuliouhe-zhonglie of National Road 312.
issued by GPCPDL 1/96
(6) Outline of Environmental Impact Assessment of Lanzhou Liugouhe-Zhongbe of
National Trunk Road 312
(7) Mandate of Environmental Impact Assessment of Lanzhou Liugouhe-Zhonghe in
National Road 312
(8) "Official Reply on Proposal of Project of Liugouhe(in Lanzhou)-Gulang Highway"
No 622(1994)(from MOC);
(9) "Project Feasibility Study Report of X-G" by Gansu Planning & Design Institute of
Communications. Feb. 1997;
(10) "An Outline of EIA;"
(I1) "An Inspection Reply on the Outline of EIA of X-G" from the NationaL
Environmental Protection Agency, No 293.[1996];
(12) "A Reply on the Outline of EIA of X-G" from the National Environmental
Protection Bureau;
(13 ) "Soil and Water Conservation law of P.R.C."
(14) The Operation directives of the World Bank.
1.3 Scope and Standards of EIA
For the scope and standards of EIA of the proposed road, see Table I - I
Table 1-1                      The scope and Standards of the EIA
Item           Scope                      Standards              Factors
Soil erosion within 200m. extend the
scope earth waste and
borrow area
Agricultural   within 200m.    Sv-' Gb 14935-94. Food Sanitatioii  Pb in crop
ecology                       Standards
Ambient air    within 200m.    GB 3095-96, Ambient air quality     CO, NOx,
standards(ll)                     TSP, Pb THC
2



Item             Scope                          Standards                   Factors
Acoustics       within 200m.       GB 309693, Environmental Noise               Leq
environment                          Standards in city Area, class 11 for school
_________    _and hospitals.
Social     Direct impact: within
environment 200m, Indirect impact: Key
area
Water   within 1000m of the lower GB 3838-88, Surface water Environmental  pH, COD, oil,
reaches of rivers or    Quality Standard, class II or III use different  ss
_________  reservoirs    classes for the different surface water.
Soil          within 200m        GB 15618-95 soil Environment Quality      Pb in soil
I_                        Standards, class 11.
1.4 Assessment periods:
L-Z section
Construction Period( 1998-2002)
Operation  Period: Initial Period(  1 998-2002), Middle  Period(20  1  0), Late
peTiod(2020)
X-G section
1) Construction phase: 1998-2002
2) Medium-term operation phase: 2010
3) Long-term operation phase: 2022
1.5 Assessment Methods
For assessment contents and methods see Table 1-2.
Table 1-2                               Assessment Contents and Methods
Item                           Methods                           Remarks
ecological environment model analys:s for soil erosion and lead content sectional calculation for
in soil; analogical methods for lead content in   soil erosion; typical land
crops                                       analysis for lead content
traffic noise impact    field monitoring for existing environment  sensitive spots as subjects
ambient air impact    quality; model prediction combined with      of assessment
water impact          analogical analysis :--r eavironment impact
social environment    collecting data, questionaires and prediction
analysis
3



2 Project Description
2.1 Project Description ot L-Z section
2. 1.1 Location, Alignment and Major controling points of L Z Section
The highway starts at k2196 on National Trunk Road 312, on the liugoube of
the east outline of lanizbou, nuis northlward across quanzigou, Liugouhe, Majiagou,
Daqling mountain to Guchlenping, then it pass Bao-lan and Long-lhai Railways to
soutlhern bal)1k of Yellow River. Because of the separation by Yellow River. The route
mav have twvo alternative scheme,  They are Nothem  scheme (N-scheme) and
southlern scheme (S-scheme). The Ilighway of N-scheme pass Yellow River to it's
iortlheni bank, througli Qinbaishi to Zaoshugou on the east side of Yanchangbu.(this
sclheme liave beeii recommended by the Feasibility researcli report of the project). S-
scheme runs westward aloug the soutlhem baak of the Yellow River, through the
NoTtliside of Gansu education institute, to eastern Yantan, then it rmns Northward
and pass Yellow river to Zaoshugou on Northern bank of Yellow River linking to N-
scieine. theni it extends along the Zaoshugou across Baishitougou,  xiaogou,
luotuoxialzi,  National Trunk road 109 to west side of Dasbagou,  extends
nortlhward to Zhonglie on the end of project.
The Routine can be seen in Fig2.2 From above, We know that the section from
Douggang to Zaoshugou of the project lhave two partial altemation scheme. One is at
the Nortlern bank of the Yellow River and another at the southem bank.
'. 1.2 Constretiction Scale and Main Techlnical Indexes of L-Z Section
112e wlhole activities of the project (Recomniended schieme) are slhowed in table
2.1 and 2.2.
4



Table.2. I     Construction Scale and Main Engineering Volume of the Project
Items                         Unit                        Quantity
N-Scheme
MIav-in Road                               km                          33.028
.otal Estimated Invesnmenit          thiousand vuan                 148358.0014
Lazud for Construction                                                 2843
Retmoval of Houses                        I,,                           8660
Remioval of Wire Poles                                                  108
Removal of Optical Cables                  kmi.    3
Constriction Penod                        year                           4
Roadbed Earthwork                     thousand ni3                    8084.763
Pa.;vement                             thousand n3                    201.415
TTunnels                                   m                             0
Large Bridges                             ditto                      3265.20/8
Medium and Small Bridges                  ditto                       43.54/1
hiterchinge                                                              9
It )erpazs                                                                3
Chiarge Installations                                                    3
Table. 2.2        Main Technical Indexes
Technical Grade                            N-Scheme
Tec}Hr; .. Jsce.w                                     Mountain  Expressway
(' alculnted DriVing Speed (kIm/lh)                            80
Width of Roadbed (m)                                           21.5
Widthi of Driving Lane (ni)                                 37.5 x 2
iHoriziontal Ctu-ve (in)                                       200
ITcp Rile(%)                                                     S
Design Flood Frequenicy of Roadbed                            1/100
Design Load of Bridges and Culverts      Truck--over  20  Grade with Trailer 120
5



2.2 Project Description of X-G section
2.2. l Alignment and Major Controlling Points of X-G Section
(1) Geographical location
The proposed highway starts at Heba of Xujiamo and meets with Shuping-
Xujiamo lighlway wlhichi is under construction. It terminates nortli of Gulang Country-
L,ll an(I is connected withi existing Trunik Line 312 at K2432+700. then extends
lbnvard till K2433+474 (destination). Tfle total length covers 148.99kmr  Fig. 2-1
slhows its geograpllical location.
(2)Aligninent ( recommended) and major controlling points
Basically', the route goes from soutlh to north. Starting at Heba of Nujiamo. it goes
tiortlwxvards oni tlhe' easteni terrace of Zhuanlang River against the current along with
exisling liizliway 312 and Lan-Xini Railroad. 'Thien the route goes following this
alignment: Lonigquanlsi--Majiapinig--Yongdeng  County-town  -- Tianzhu County--
towii--Anwen   -Wusliao   Mountains--Anyuan   Town--Longgoubao--Heisongyi--
Sliibaipu--Gulang Gorge--north of Gulang Town--meets existing National Trunk Line
3 12 at(K2432+700)--destination K2433+474.
Thle major controlling spots are: Heba of Xujianio, Longquansi west of Yongdeng
CoLnty-town. Wushengyi. east of Tianzhu County-town,Anyuan Town. Siubaipu and
Gulanig. For thieir locations, see Fig 2-1.
12.2. Construction Scale and Main Tecllnical Indexes of X-G Sectioni
The planned X-G  road is 148.9km  loing and the total cost of the project is
estimated to be 1,618,440,000 RMB  yuan (about $194,992,771). Thle teclhnical
standards for this project are those for auto-only highways in liglht rolling areas and lhilly
areas. For major teclnical indexes oftlle roa( see Table 2-3.
:inl.le 2.3          Major Techlnical Indexes of X-G Section
sections  Xiujiaio--   Lcngqtansi    Anmen-    Mohewan    connecting
itetius             Longgualsi   -Anmen        Mohewan    -Gulang          line
land features      liglit rolling   plain light    ieanvy rolling  heavy rolling light rolling
area on plan   i   aarea  rea il hiarea   rea in hills  area on plan
area class                  automobile-only, class 11    large width,  class Ill
class [I
design speed (km/h)                  80                              60
width of sibgrade(m)   16.50  T     12.00        12.00       15.00        8.50
jstopping    vision           I10                 75          110          75
dist(ni) 
designed load of   automobile-super 20, trailer- 120                  automobile 20
bridge & culvert                                                     trailer 100
6



2.2.3 Work Amount of X-G Section
Tlue work amounlt of X-G sectioni is listed in Table 2-4.
Table 2-4            Work Amount of the project of X-G section
sections  in Yongdeng    in Tianzilu    in Gulanig        total
unit              County         CoLnty          CoLunty
items                   _
ittile tengti     kin       63.658         54.105           31.2          148.99
CL,Ih-nid enIrrh)  kill;   55700(0         1825.73         1373.37       10769.10
s.tb-rade stone   kii3       _              615.27         648.29         1263.56
v:nrk
paveoinelt        kn3       602.60         477.027         368.388        1448.015
iarge brige     mn/place    599.80/3       360.78/2       116.00/1       1076.58/6
nied.& small brige rn/place    1296.6/56  1438.5/48       520.4/10       3254/114
cthlvert         place       362             216             84             662
tecTlalige                   4              2              ,               6
('rade separation              5              3               5              13
passage                       43             21               -             64
service area                   I              I                              2
:Omininistratioii              I              I .                            3
IWLmitilenia_iwe    _         2               2               I              5
2.2.4 Wotk SclheduLle
[)esign: June, 1996 -  Dec., 1998
Coonstrulctioni: July. 1998 - Juie 30,2002(48 .;months)
2.L2.5 Cost estimate and Funds Raise
Thie proposed highway will cost 1,628,437,000 Rennimnbi yuan including a loan of
I US  $60,000,000  from  the  World  Bank(415,080,000  yuan).subsidizationi of
t50).000,00) yuan from MOC. with the remaininig raised by the Government of Gansu
provinice.
7



Fig. 2.1 Mlap of Project Location
HuoX ,uosU                         E
Qingi Provinceg                                                           l
QQ1JT C Bai\ inL CAit
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l G< 312 
S/  GulullgXlibaliptl        Ga~~~~~~Aonoqansi  inba L
Qilgliai Provinle    G10 
l                     RS             LCt0oH                                E~~~~G10
_-~~~LTR JE U10(A                                   M



~2&t                               L> ~,74 
-~ '.-I CJ~-~   A ~             *m            4
r% ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~tr ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ -
4k  -                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~
-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>                   r&~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
t~~~r~~ /                <NCD  o"
AVAII1H 119NtI              0  -AI0911   A                AVID      JQ



3. Environmental condition and sensitive
points
3.1 Environmental condition
3. l. I Natural Enivironment
3. 1. 1.  Topograpliy & Geology & earthiquaike
Thlie topograph1ic features along L--Z sectioni is characterized by valley and hills.
LiugoLuhte- Doiggailg, Zaosliugou-Zhonghic are situated in hilly region, Douggang--
Zaoshugou is onl valley flinige.
Topography aloiig the X-G route is clharacterized by level land. The section
betweeni Yonigdenig Counity-townl goes alonig the valley belong to ligh rolling areas. In
the bowidaiies of Tianizliu Counity, it goes oni the grassland. Then it goes into The
Gulang, Gorge, with tlie rest being of light undulate area which is relatively flat.
Tlhere are some poor geological plhenomenon in both sections. Oni L--Z section
iJrcie are Mud-Rock Flow anid loess depressioni cave. The length of poor sections is
aIHlI 3.Okm-i.  Oni X-G section). tlhere are weak slopes. frost boiling and continuous flux
o![wv;IIC r. 'lie total lenigtlh of the poor sectiou is 10.5km.
Accor-dinig to thie earthquake intensity divisions of Gansu province. the basic
iitensity of the L-Z area is 8 degrees., and the inteinity of X-Z area is 7-9 magnitudes.
31. 1.2 Climate aud lhydrology
L-Z sectioni is situated deep i3 the inlaimd, time area along it belongs to semi-arid
temnperate cLimate zone. and its chiief climate cliaracteristics are great difterence of
temperature. low railifall and high evaporation. The meaii annual temperature is 10.1 C,
the imiean tenmperatures in July and January are respectively 22.6 'C and -6.7 C. The
niaxfiiuuln daily temperature difference amounts to 28 'C-30.2 C due to cold current in
spring. The mean annual rainfall is about 300rmn, the evaporation capacity is over
1440mm wlich is approximately 5 times of the rainfall, the annual frost free season
1 86-200 days, the annuial suneslhinie durationi 2,675 hours, and the mean annual
accwnlllated temperature > 1O is 2,940 'C. The city proper of Lanzhou, situated in a
arrniw ba .in of iver valley, lhas smiiall wind speed muchl counterflow and heavy air
X-Z SeCtiOli a]'ea is oii the climatic transition belt from temperature and semi-arid
zonie to 1-lexi cold an(l temperate zone except for Wusliao Mountains and Tiauzhu
(Cowil)y which are colt! andl arid because of higlh altitude. Time aluiually average
temper-atur-c is between -0.2 - 9. l 'C, withi -0. 2 'C in Wushao Mountains. Thle highest
temperature is between 33-39 'C, while the lowest temperature is between    -26.4 -
-28 'C, The relative ihuinidity is 54-59%, The annual raoifall is 263.4-411.3mm with
Wuislizo Moulntainis being the greatest(411.3). Rainy seasoni: July-September.
10



Thle main rivers(gullies) the L--Z highway passes are the Yellow River and its
tributaries, the Liugoulie river and the Dashagou Gully which are both seasonal surface
waters. For many years the mean annual runoffs of the Dashagou Gully and the
Liugouile River are respectively 0.221 and 0.018 million m3. As measured by Lanzhou
Hydrometric Station the mean annual runoff of the Yellow river is 33,700 million m3 in
h:io1 flow year( 1967), and 32,800 million ni3 in low hiowV year( 1969).The ratio of
strieat1 values of annutlal mnoff is 2.2 and( the inter year difference of runoffs is
small. .since 1909 the nuioffofLanzlhou section of the Yellow River has been under
artificial coIItol of Liujiaxia Hydraulic Station and the difference between the runoffs is
simall. Since 1969, the runoff of Lanzhioti section of the Yellow River has been under
artificial control of Liujiaxia Hydraulic station anid the difference between the runoffs of
thle higl flow period(Juie to November)and of the low flow period (December. the next
January to may)has been decreased.
The river system whiclh the X---G passes. are the Yellow River system (south of
Wtishao Mountains). The former consists of the Zhuanglang River( in boundaries of
Yongdeng County)and the Jinqiang River., a branich of it. while the latter consists of the
Gullang River and its branch the Longgou River.The Shibaipu Reservoir is located on
the east side of the road extending from K2412-700 to K24 13 100.
3.1.1.3 Soil Fauna and Flora
Iyv)e of soil along L--Z highway is loess. Types of soil along the X-G highway are:
soil boess. millet calcium soil clierhozern, paramo soil, antliiopogenic-alluvial soil.
1Ilie sectioni the L--Z hiighlway passes is thle desert and grassland area the west of
the loess plateau on wbich grow desert and grassland vegetation, mainly shortflower
iieedlegrass yaTrow ajania camel tlhon atid zygooligllum fabago accompaniied hy typical
grassland plants such as bunge needlegrass and awnless cleistogenes. The vegetation is
slhort, and poor in variety. The wild aniinals are wolf hiare, fox, wild pigeon, etc. aiid
cultivated plants, mainly wheat, corn, buckwlheat, vegetables, Bailan melon, apple, pear,
peach and apricot. There are scattered artificial forests of poplar and willow along the
lie alid all old forest of poplar, pine and cypress in Xujiaslhan forest Farm that the line
passes tlhrouglh.
To X-G highway: the vegetation in the section of Xujiamo-Yongdeng is of
agricultural, crops: there are some vegetables and orchards on the plain. Kinds of trees
tire poplars, willows and birches. Thle section of Yongdeng-Tianzhu has poorer
wvetation witlh some steppe plantation on tenaces hi]ly benclhialid and sloping held and
tliiii 'Iisbes oil suwiny slopes. Plantation in Gtulanig Gorge is cliaracterized by deserted
-r;assland with a cover percentage of 10%. Agricultural crops dominate in other parts
with a percent of 30-50%. No rare plants lhave been found. Thle animals in the X-G
areas are mainly fox, wolf, plheasant and some kinds of birds.
Based on survy, there are no protected animals and plants in two areas of the
proposed higlhway.
3.1.2 Social Environment
3.1.2.1 Social Economy
rhe L-Z higlhway passes througlh Lanzliou city, the capital of Ganisu Province and
I1



the X-G  link Lanzhou to Wuwei. Lanzhoui has developed into the largest
comprehensive industrial city on the upper reaches of the Yellow River giving priority
to petroleum  refinement, chemical industry, machinofacture, wool spinning and
nonlferrous metallurgical industry. Lanzlhou city has tlle jurisdiction over five districts
anid tllree cotunties witlh total area of 13,000km2. In 1992, its total population reached to
2.6 millioni. The total industrial and agricultural output values were, according to the
otiustalnt price of 1990, respectvely 15,700 million yuan and 800 million yuan, and gross
national output was 8,470 milliom yuan. The vehicle owning quantity was 42,800,
accountinig for  35%  of the provincial total. Since 1980, the total values of the
mlunicipal industrial and agricultural outputs, national income, vehicle owning quantity
and thie circular volume of road freight have been graduaDly increasing by respectively
8.69%,12.36%, 7.77% and 9.16% . Its social economy, science, technology and
cultural exchanges are geting increasingly active. It will affect Lanzhou city, Wuwei
r-efecture and Jinchang city directly or indirectly promoting the economic growth in
these areas. General social conditions of these areas are as follows:
populationi: 6,519,000, 27.3% ofthe province total
GNP: 32,518,000,000 RMB yuan, 58% oftlie province total
GOVOLA:  31,550,000,000 RMB yuan, 45.7% ofthe province total
;ross output of grain:  1,533,400 toii, 24.5% of the province total
F:ieC(f assets:  18,300,000,000 RMB yuan, 53.9% ofthe province total
;s venoe: 2,500,000,000 RMB yuan, 74.29% ofthe province total
Nleanwhlile thie proposed road directly promote the Yuzlhong, Gaolang, Yongdeng,
and Gulalng Counties througlh whlichi the highway will pass.
The five countries are developing agricultuiral areas. Annual revenue per person is
firom 814.2-2520 RMB yuan, Wheat grows well with one crop a year. Major crops are:
wheat maize and potatoes. Cash crops are: oil plants, melons and beets. Average yield
p uer ni is 1 09kg for crops, that of oil plants is 90kg per mu.
3.1.2.2 Historical and cultural relics
According to investigation. there is no important historical site or other cultural
relics for preservation within the range of 500m from the proposed hlighway.
3.1.3 Existing Enviioinmenital Quality
1.3.1 L-Z sectioIn
ilic soil erosioni in the place wlhere thie road passes is divided into 3 types: the
hiily-gully regioni with the module 9000-1400t/km2: the terrace on losses hills with the
moduttle 5000 -9000t/km2 and the alluvial plain of river valley with soil erosion module
lower tlhan 3000tIkm2.
The lead content in soil in the  constructioni area is between 18.14-24.13 mg/kg,
belonging to the imcontaminiated state.
Tle noise background value is between 32.0-48.8dB(A), belonging to a relatively
quiet state.
As for thle air quality in the area, the daily average concentration of CO, NOx and
THC exceeds the standard in Qingbaishi section. NOx surpasses the concentration
12



standard for one time, which has something to do with the pollution diffision of
Lanzhou proper. For other sections, the air quality is rather good in accordance with
the national standard of Grade HI.
The water quality of the Yellow River that the toad goes though is bad belonging
to Grade IIl of waterregion, in which coli index and phenol go beyond the national
stanidard of Grade III. The water quality of the Liugouhe river is good.
3.1.3.2 X-G sectioll
Soil Erosion: The situations of soil loss in the Toute line area vary with coverage of
vegetation. Survev shows soil erosion module is between 800-2000t/km2 * a.
Acoustic Quality: the monitored results show that the acoustic environmental
qualities at the spots of urban areas, rural areas and schools meet the Environmental
Noise Stalidards in GB3096-93. Therefore, existing acoustic environment along the
proposed route is good. The residents and villagers enjoy a quiet environment.
Ambient Air Quality: The moititored results indicated that the ambient air qualities
along the route are fairly good and do not exceed National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (class II) except TSP which exceeds the standard by 20-80% due to loess
laud soil and poor vegetation.
Water Quality: The monitored water quality of water bodies along the route is
fairly food., meeting the Gansu local planning water body standards of environmental
quality.
Soil Quality: Based on the monitoring data,both fanning soil and crops along the
proposed road have not been contaminated by lead;
3.2 Environmental Sensitive Points
3.2.1 Enviroimniental Sensitive Points on L-Z section
On L-Z, there are I I sensitive points. The sensitivty of each point is different to
envronmetital facts, among whiclh there are 5 of soil erosion, 5 of noise, 5 of air
environment, 2 of water envirorunent, I of vegetation destruction and I of viberation.
The details are shown in Table 3-1.
Table 3. 1   Summary of the Environmental Sensitive Points of the L-Z Expressway
No    Place Name    Distance From   Sensitive             Summary                Remarks
Road       Factors
100-200m east soil      160 households, 800 persons; crops: corn,
I Xujiaying Village of the road           fruit trees, etc.; 3 teachers & 100 students in
Xujiaying Primary School
Fangjiaquan    witlh overpass & noise,  50m fiorn primary schoolacross Litgoube River,
Village        embankment  water quality houses to be dimianted, conotrated residents;
2                 through                  tunnel aheadwidi largexcavafxi work
3 Yanerwan        across Yellow  water     Yellow River Bridge 71 Om long with an  Northem
River        quality,    approach occupying a large stretch of orchard
soil       on the north bank
13



No    Place Name    t?istance From    Sensitive                 Summary                  Remarics
Road        Factors
4  Qingshiwan        150m north of  soil       3 hamlets, 1, 700 persons;               Northern
Village          the road                   orchard; 360 persons in Qingshi Primary
School 80m right off
5 Qingbaishi        50-200m north  noise, air, 310 households; 30 teachers & 320 students  Northem
Township         of the road    soil        in Qingbaishi Middle School 50m right off;
orchards
6  CGanisti Eduication   20m south  noise, air  400 teachers & 2, 000 students occupying    Southem
Instittute      of the road                1150inu
vegetation   farms for many years of Forest Bureau in
destruction, Chengguan District, Provincial Machinery
7  Beishan Green    through        soil loss   Dept: & Municipal Electromechanical
Area                                        Bureau; 4km long
200m north of  noise, air,  concentrated residential area;
8 Yanchangbu        the road       interference  many houses to be dismantled
of occupying
land
9  Observatory      200m south of  vibration,   fine seismic measuring geomagneism      Southern
|road                     instruments
10 BeilongkoU       through        occupying   12km long, 1.1km wide at most; already 20
Development Zone longithdinally  land, etc.  Cliina-Xianggang joint venttues
I I1 Zhoniglhe village   200m east of   noise, air  70 households, 300 persons
L                 .___________ Lthe road
3.2.2 Environmental Sensitive Points on X-G section
On X-G section, the environmentally sensitive spots have been determined: 3
countvytowns, 4 villages,  lOschools and I reservoir. See Table 3.2. The locations of
major sensitive site can be seen on the Annex Fig I (The Environmental sensitive Points
and Environmental Monitoring points).
Table 3.2    Environmentally Sensitive Spots along X-G
order    post No      location    distance from          brief description        sensitive
centre of road (m)                                 issues
I K2300+000    Majiaping   east 50   150    The place where the Management  air, noise &
Division of Yongdeng East trunk   soil
Canal is lkcated with population of
290;the proposed road passes
___________   _______________  through  a small rose garden
2    K2307+600      Majiawan                     The planned road crosses the east water quality
canal                         in eastnain canal
14



order    post No       location    distance from           brief description         sensitive
centre of road (m)                    .             issues
3    K2318+S00       west of     40 - 200 on  * On the westem bank of the         air, nose,
- K2319+300  Yongdeng    both sides         Zhuanglang River, there are 120    water quality
County-town                  households with 436 people and    in  Zhuanglang
some will have to be removed    Rive
4    K2334+700       Tungouwan  east 50 - 200    There are 68 households and      noise & air
- K2335+000                                 Tungouwan Primary School with
300 students.
5    K2347+800       Tianzhu     east 30 - 150    The road passes by the back walls o noise,air &
- K2348+300  County-town                    Tianzhu Minority Normal School  soil quality
and its primary school and county
Minority High School by 30m and
150Im respectively
b     K2354+500      Yezlhigou    east 30 - 200    There are 126 households,a primary air, noise
school with 120 students and 6
teachers. There will be some
removement.
7    K2402+600       Longgoubao  east 0 - 30      There is a primary school with 300 air,noise   *
students and 11 teachers. The school
will be removed and be resettled.
8    K2408+800       Heisongyi   west 40 - 200m  There is a high school with 250  noise,     air,
- K2409+900                                 students and 24 teachers. The road  quality,   soil
passes by the back wall of thee  erosion,  land
school; a primary school with 300  use
shtdents and 8 teachers; about 140  removement &
_ ____________                              households.                     resettlement
K2412+700      Shibalipu    west o -        On the eastem bank ofShibalipu  water quality
K K2413+000                                 Reservoirthere is a ;eologicafly poor  in reservoir &
section with loose rocks because of   soil erosion
bad deflation The reservoir will erode
subgrade unavoidably.
10   K2412+50        Guandimian  west 50 - 200   There are a primary school with 120 air & noise
- K2414+000  Village                        students and 136 households.
IJ   K2415+250       Shibalipu    south 40 - 150   There are residentialareas with 237  noise & air
- K2416+200  Village                        houscholds and a primary school
with 120 students and a small clinic.
12   K2424+200       east of     east 40 - 200    There are 820 households,electric  air, noise,
- K2425+500  Gulang                         substation,a carpet factory,a   land-taking &
County-town                  chemical plant, a pharrnacy factory  removement
and a shoe factory.
15



4 Environmental Impact Prediction
4.1 Environmental Impact of L-Z section
4.1.1 Analysis of Ecological Enviromnental Impact and Recovery Measures
The vegetation in constniction sites such as roadbed, the area in the range of 50m
from the road borrow area and spoil area will be completely or partly destroyed. and
the soil for plant growth wil be affected in an area about 167,000,000m2. The
vegetation destroyed will be mostly the desert and grassland vegetation in the
inorthwest of loess plateau. but no key protected plants. It is estimated that the vegetion
will be basically restored in this area and the animals will be slightly affected.
4.2 Calculation of soil Erosion
It is calculated by the general formula of calculation that during construction the
soil erosion intensity from Liugoulbe to Donggang and from Zaoshugou-Yanchangbu
will be the largest,. 294.74t/ha.yrs. 2.5-3.5 times of that of regional background. In the
section of the north bank of the yellow River, the erosion intensity will be I 12.4t.ha.yr.,
1.5-2.5 times of present erosion intensity. In the section from Yanchangbu to Zhonghe,
the soil erosion intensity is comparatively largest that is 189.83t/ha.yr about 3 times of
present erosion intensity.
The calculation annual soil erosion volume of whole line in S-schemes 25,
349t/ha.yr.,and that of the N-scheme 28,646tA1a.yr.
Wlhen in operation, the soil erosion intenisity will drop year by year. In 5-8 yrs. it
will be below the soil erosion intenisity before the construction in this area.
4.1.3 Impact upon Agricultural Environment
Thie highway construction will only. occupy about 2,800mu of land, mainly
mnountainous land poor in earth quality. Small quatity of vegetable held will be properly
compensated and new vegetable fields will be opened upon other places to ensure that
agricultural production will not be significantly affected.
Wheni the highway is put into operation, lead pollution will be somewhat
aggravated. In 18 yrs, the lead content will be 33.70-60.67mg/kg in the area 0-20m
fromn the road, the lead content will be lower in the area beyond 20m from the road.
Since the soil is alkaline and the activity of lead is low, it is calculated that crops and
their products will not be harmed. But when the cumulative effect of lead is considered,
with passing of time attention has to be paid to the harm.
4. 1:4 Prediction of Noise Impact
(I) In operation0i period, it is calculated that in the initial, middle and late period the
traffic noise Ifm from thc lane will be no more than 7OdB(A), which will not affect the
surroundings significantly at daytime, but at night, the noise will occasionally go beyond
the standard and bring about unfavorable impact on Qingbaishi Middle School and
Gausu Education Institute in construction and operation periods. It can be seen in Table
16



4.1 and 4.2 for details.
Table 4.1 Prediction Values of Traffic Noise in All Sections of the L-Z Expressway
Unit:dB(A)
Sections                 -002yr.           201 Oyr.           2020yr.
Dav  Night peak  Day  Night peak  Day  Night pea
!.ugoulie-Donganng              63.2  55.8  64.9  66.2  59.0  68.0  68.5  61.2  69.8
Dongganga-Zhonghe   N-scheme  64.3  57.0  66.1  67.1  59.8  69.1  68.1  60.8  69.6
S-scheme  65.0  57.7  66.8  67.7  60.4  69.7  68.7  61.4  69.9
Zaoshluzou-Yanchan bu           64.1  56.8  65.5  67.3  60.0  69.4  69.6  62.3  70.8
Yanchanibu-Zlhonghe             65.3  57.9  66.9  68.2 - 60.9  69.7  70.9  63.4  71.2
Note: The prediction value is made at 15m from the lane center.
Table 4.2 Prediction Values of Environmental Noise on the Sensitive Points of the L-Z
Road
Unit: dB(A)
No Milepost of      Distance           Environiinetital   Over-Standard    Remarks
Sensitive Points  from Lane   Year  Noise Values   values
Center (ni)          Day  | Night   Day    Night
Fanjiaquan                  2002     61.8    53.6      0       0    residential area
I  K5+100              20       2010     64.2    56.0     0       1.0  (2150 villagers,
2020     66.9    59.0     0       4.6  420 households)
Qilngbaishi                 2002     56.5    45.2    1.5       0   school (30 teaclh
Nliddle
2   Sclhool                     2010     57.8    48.5    2.8       0   ers;        320
students),
townslip
(Scherile ll)      80       2020     59.3    50.5    4.4       0   (310households
kl 1+000                                                           andl200 people)
Gansu Education             2002     58.3    50.4    3.3       0   school (400
3   Institute          30       2010     60.5    50.8    5.5       0   faculty members
(Scheme 1)                  2020     61.8    52.9    6.8       0   with over 2000
K 11+400                                                           students)
Yanclhaingbu                2002     64.3    54.8      0       0   dense residential
4   K15+700            40       2010     67.4    56.8      0       3.4  area
2020     69.6    58.4     0       5.3
Zhionghe Village            2002     65.3    64.3      0       1.0  residential area
5   K22+000            20       2010     67.6    56.0      0      3.6  (I120 people in
_I_ __                       2020  _67.7  | 58.6        0       5.   260 households)
Note: Tne )redictioll values include the inonitoring values 60.8of the background and
iw(t incic(le the monitoring values pf backgrouvd.
* The Ist grade standard is adopted near schools in day time,  while the 4th grade
standard in other time and sensitive poilnts.
(2) In construction period, noise in construction period chiefly comes from the
coustruction machiiinery and transportation vehicles. The sound level of the main
equipment and the reduction values with the change of distance are 58-9OdB.
In consideration of the increase of sound levels when the machines are put to work
aI the same tine and the various sound decay factors (excluding the change of distance).
the construction woik in daytime will not produce salient impact upon the villages
schools lOOm away from the proposed road, while there still exists some impact upon
17



ilie resi(leits living with 50m from the road. HIowever, the construction will seriously
affect the teaching of neiglhborinig sclhools, such as Qingbaisbi Mliddle school (in W-
Schelne I1) and Gansu Education institute (in S-Sclheme 1).
* Thle sound levels of the construction maclhines at niglht within 1 50m all surpass the
standard. Thlerefore the severe impact will be inflicted upoII the rest of the residents in
both villages and city.Tne vehicles for materials transportation drive in single truck
most of the time on the ready-made highways. The unfrequented toads in suburbs are
clhoseni so that there is not noise impact. Thie quarry is nun by the Lanzhou railway
Buureaut. The mnaterials needed will not increase in its noise. The clay ground is located
in suburbs witlhout hiabitation aroutid and it will not cause noise impact.
4.1.5 Prediction of Atmosphere Environmental Impact
(1) In constlructioni period
Thte impact of the road constrtuction upon the ambient air environmenit comes
mainly fiom  the asplhalt blendiing grounds alnd powder materials, for example the
I l ansportation of lime, coal aslh and soil, concr ete, etc. and their piling grounds.
The air pollutants at the blending groud are chiiefly asphalt smoke and blown dust
wihiclh affect the ambient environment to some extent . According the prediction results
of TSP obtained at the blending ground in construction period, TSP concentration at
50m away from the roadside, if the teclnique of bleniding on the road is adopted can
meet the 2nd grade standard (1.OOmg/Nm3)of air environment quality . The TSP
concentration on the leewards at 50m away from the blending station of the storage
ground reaches to 90mg/Nm3 100mg/Nm3 at lOOm away and there exists almost no
pollutanit impact at 150m away.
The air pollutants from tie road-used powder materials, transportation and storage are
the flyash of these materials. The loading, unloading and storage of the matrials will
contaminate the residents and farmland within scores of meters away from the ground.
hi con1striIction period the blown dust due to the soi] tranisportation vehicles acts
as thle miiaill pollutant. TSP may surpass the standard at 50m from thte roadside on the
leeward and at 1 50m away as well.
(2) In operation period
The impact can be seen in table 4.3 and Table 4.4
Table 4.3       Air poutions Daily Average contcentrationi Along L-Z Road
Section         time        CO          NOx         THC         Pb
2002      1.125       0.067        1.190      0.0006
Liugouhe-Donggang       2010      1.316        0.086        1.213     0.0007
2020      1.553       0.160*       1.270      0.0010
2002      3.861       0.196*       1.464      0.0013
N-scheme      2010     4.201*       0.225*       1.500     0.0016*
Donggang-               2020      4.532*      0.243*        1.543     0.0018*
Z30shugoul              2002      3.927       0.199*        1.471     0.0014
S-scheme      2010     4.321*       0.230*       1.513     0.0017*
________   ________ 2020  4.718*    0.258*       1.573     0.0019*
IS



Section            time        CO           NOx           THC           Pb
2002       1.075         0.056          1.197      0.0005
Zaoshugou-Yanchangbu       2010        1.226         0.076         1.200       0.0006
2020       1.478        0.154*          1.260      0.0009
2002       1.274         0.082          1.222      0.0007
Y'anchangbu-Zhongjie       2010        1.612        0.120*         1.269       0.0011
__ ___________   2020          2.142         0.183*         1.325      0.0015
TIhe predictive place is 60m fiom the line
Table 4.4 Positions of the Sensitive Points along L-Z Road and Predictive Concentration Range-
No.      Place           Nature          Impact Scope        Concentration Range
(mglNm3)
Fangijaquan    Village           200m from the road    CO:0.9400 - 6.2800
NOx:0.0500 - 0.5700
THC:1.2800 - 1.8900
Pb:0.0003 - 0.0006
2 Qinbaishi       Residents         50m north of the road; CO:3.24 - 7.8609
(N-scheme)     School            200m south of the road   NOx:0. 1464 - 0.6060
THC:1.776 - 2.3505
Pb:0.0007 - 0.0053
3 Ga.;sti Ediucation School          lOOm south of the road   C0:3.36 - 7.98
1i1stitute                                             NOx:0.16 - 0.70
TlC:1.93 - 2.56
Pb:0.0007 - 0.0012
4  Yanchianigbu   urban residents,    200m south of the road   CO:].0  - 8.90
govmment offices,                       NOx:0.051 - 0.63
departments                             THC: 1.18 - 2.43
Pb:0.0004 - 0.104
6 Zhionghe        Village           200m east of the road  CO:1.02 - .10.80
NOx:0.05 - 0.69
THC:I.19 - 2.49
Pb:0.0004 - 0.0107
* The predictive concentration place in from 30m to 200m.
As slhown in the Tables, three pollutants surpass the standards to some extent in a
few sections, wlhile THC iiever does so in all sections.
CO surpasses the standard from Donggang to Zaoshugou(N-scheme and S-
schene) after 2010, and other sections don't surpass the standard in any periods.
NOx suipasses the standard at all sections to some extent. At the section
Liugouile-Donggang it will exceed the standard in 2020 by 0.06 rng/Nm3. As to the
section DonggangZaoshugou, since the environment background value has exceeded
the standard the overstandard appears in every section in every time period with the
19



maximum value of 0.0258mg/Nm3 that is 2.5 times as big as the standard.
At the other sections NOx will exceed the standard in 201 0 and 2020.
Pb surpasses the standard at all sections Donggang-Zaoshugou in 2020. the
maximun- valtie being 0.0019 mng/Nm3 and 1.3 times as big as the standard.
rThe results are classified into two categories. The first shows that the wind
directioni conforns with the road alignment with the sensitive points located on one side
oir both sides of the road, for instance Fangjiaquan, Yanclialigbu and Zhonghe . The
second indicates that the wind direction forms a salielnt angle with the proposed road
with the sensitive points located on olne side of the road suchi as Shajiaping Qingbaishli
and Gansu Education lnstitute.
Fangjiaquian:The proposed road goes througli this village with residents dwelling
(II both sides of the road. hlie initial operation period(2002) brings about little impact
on the residents on both sides of the road, and the impact scope is confined within 30m
fiom the road on both sides. Tlhe scope will reaclh to about 60m in the late operation
period (2020) with NOx surpassing tde second grade national environmental quality
st.tndard.
Qingbaislii: It is located on the nortlh side of the road where north east wind
iWre%vails . Thle road lies in the lee side of the sensitive point, thus it does little damage to
the poinit. Nevertheless, it will still affect the area to a certain degree when the wind is
ca imi.
Gansu Education Institute: It is situated on the leeward to the south side of the
road. In the late operation period(2020), salient impact will be made upon the vicinity
of the institute within lOOm from the road.
Yanchangbu:The road will maiuly bring about impact upon the units situated to
the sotutlh of the road such as Lanzhou Veterinary Institute of Chinese Science Academy
etc . At present the urban residents live far from the road without much impact.
Zlhonghe: About 50 households of villagers live within lOOm, on the west side of
the road. The impact mainly affects those who live within 30m away from the lane
center but not much on those who live witlhin the scope of 60- lOOm from the road.
4. 1.6 Analysis of Water Environmental Impact
In the constniction period the higlhway will exert slight impact upon the water
LluHllity of the Yellow River and the Liugouhe River. As the Yellow rver has fairly floe
and( the Liugouhe River is not the source of drinking water of human beings and
livestock, the construction of the highway will not exert significant impact upon the
water environment. In the operation period, since the higway is distant from the water
bodies, pollutants such as lead will not make significant impact upon water quality.
4.1.7 Impact upon Social Economy
The construction of the highway will optimize the transport network of the
higlhway, improve the driving condition of the national road, the comprehensive
environimenital quality of the city and production and investment conditions, but
meanwhile bring about the problems of removal of residents and optical and electric
cables, intersection with railways, separation of ditch and network in farm fields, and
inconvenience to the life of the local people. The negative impact may be solved by
2()



appropriate measures.
4.1.8 Other Environmental Impact
The construction of the highway will exert some impact upon the instruments of
Lanzhou Seismic Observation Station for scientific research.Thie problem will be solved
by a round about way of the obsertary.
Ile construction will seriously destroy the vegetation in Xujiashan Farm. The
farm has to be compensated to have it restored.
4.2 Environment Impact of X-G section
4.2.1 Analysis on Ecologically Environmental lmpact
4.2.1. I Soil Erosion
I )Soil Loss Estimation during Coustruction Phiase
a.Soil loss amount caused by subgrade constructioni
The strength and volume of soil losse3 during the construction phase have been
estimated by using soil loss model. hlie former is 133.79 t/ha.a. with a max. of
428.1 ltAia.a. concentrated mostly at K2386-K2395, K2309-K2313, K2410-K2414,
IC2424-K2425. The average loss strength along the ronte is 7 times that of the
background one. The total loss is 35,700t/a.
b. Analysis on soil loss at borrow and spoil sites
Light boirow and spoil sites will be set up which will take 40mu of land. Small
lills oni botlh sides will serve as borrow sites and natural ditches will serve as spoil sites.
.-V CIha-Gu sectioni, borrow sites are decentraliied, mostly at thie foot of hill slope with a
short haulinlg distance. It is required that the excavation sites be reclaimed as soon as
the excavation work is completed. At the lower sides of the spoil ditches, dams or
protective slopes will be installed to minimize soil loss remarkable
C. Analysis on soil loss at sensitve sections
Wuslhaoling section (K2386+500-K2393) with a length of 6.5km is a section of
exeavation anid the strike of fault is almost perpendicular to the alignment of the route.
Q-l'2i-thick loose gravelly soil and broken sandy sliale are likely to cause slope
landside and thus leading to soil erosion. Accordingly, parapet waDls and bank
protections shall be built tip, and intercepting..ditehes are necessary as well to hold back
the water oni the slope.
Shibailipu section (K2411+500-K12413) is another sensitivepart of soil erosion
Nvliere ther-e is noticeable erosion to the embankment slope of the existing national trunk
No.312. Besides, rainstorms may bring about sectional and small-scale landslide thanks
[o deel) cutting, losse rocks and severe weathering affecting both traffic and the
reservoir. So, not only soil loss resulted from deep cutting and high filling, but also
spoil heaping shall be taken into account so as not to silt uip rivers and reservoirs.
2)Analysis on Soil Loss Amount during Operation Plhase
Some of protective measures will effectivelly protect the embankments and tllus
reduce soil losses. As the operation phase goes oni., vegetation recovery and bushes
along thie route will reduce Soil loss greatly.The soil loss in the first year of operation
21



phase will be 80% that during construction phases and in 3-5 years of operation, the
less amount will be even lower than that at presenit.
Measul-es like protective slopes, protected aprons, drainage ditclhes and plantation
of trees
and grasses slhall be taken as appropliately to protect subgrade.
4 .2.1.2 Impact oln Agriculture
(I) Land Use
The priciples for constnLctioni of the hiiglhway are: taking as less arable land as
possible, making use of deserted slopes and river bank land, avoiding towns as muclh as
possible and less land acqusition and removement. The Table 4.5 sliows the land use of
I lie proposed road.
Table 4-5               Land Use of the Propect                      Unit: nu*
land types  wet   dry  honestead artificial deserted flood  grass sandy
amount          land   land            forest  slope  land   land  land
comtil es                              __.
Yongdeng        1442.39  16.8   30.73   186.01  1311.95 16.19    I     /
_      T1Tianzlhu   _    661.85 407.42  115.43   66.25   940.28  50.62        20
Gulang,        436.33  84.53 | 94.94    34.79 .       148.87 377.18   I
subtotal       2540.57 5.8.75 | 241.1   287.05 2252.23 215.68 377.18  20
total                                  6442.56
*lmu =0.6 1 47ac
It can lee seen from Table 4.5 that the total land to be taken will be 6,444.56mu
including 38.9% of waste land and 47.3% of arable land.
(2)Impact-on Irrigation Systems
The route will cross some irrigation canals. At Majiawang(K2307+600) it will fly
over the E. MainCanal wlhile at Gulang ( K2427-800) it will pass under the Main Canal,
notaffecting existing irrigation systems. At otlher places, small bridges, culverts, closed
pipes will be in stalled for proper operation of irrigation facilities.
(3) Impact oni vegetation
There is few natural vegetation along the route. Most sections go on waste anid
floo(i land except Xiu-Clia Section wlhere soiiic farmland is goillg to be used. At Clia-
(Gi Section. some grasslanid will be takeni. 287.05mu of artificial forest and 377.18mu
of grass land will be acquired. On the other hand plantation to go with the project will
compensate for the loss of arable land, forests and grass land. So, there will not be
desertification due to plenty of water resources and propel plantatioll.
4.2.2 linpact Assessment on Environmenital Noise at Sensitive Spots
4.2.2.1 Noise Impact Analysis durintg Constr-uction Phase
During construction phase, noise mostly comes trom construction mnachinery and
transport vehicles. Table 4.6-A shows their noise level and attenuation related to distance



Table 4.6-A Acoustic Level from Con-truction Machinery                   Unit:dB
distance(mn)   5     10      20     40       60     80      100    150
machiines
loader         90      84      78      72     68-5    fi6      64     61-5
leveller       90      84I  78         72     68 5      66      64    61.5
rToller        86      86      74     68      645     62      60     56 5
bLilldozeer      86      86      74      68     64.5    62      60      5fi 5
excavator       84      84      72      66      62-5    60      58     54 5
spreader       35       85  173         fi7    63 5 161         59  155 5
mixer          87      87      69     655      631    61       59     57.5
The limit noise level for constructioni sites in GB 12523-90 is 70-75dB at daytime
;,,1(, 55dB at nighittinie Table 4-6B shiows the noise level at sound sensitive points
diltiing  constriuction phiase. It can be seen fioni the table that the sound levels of all
sensitive points do not exceed the 75dB (Gb 12523-95), but at nigit, the sound levels all
are more tlhan the 55dB. So, operating conistruction machinery at all the sound sensitive
points is not permitted at the nighttime.
Table 4.6-B     Noise level at the sound sensitive points dunng construction phase
order    place &       type of    dist from    noise Le dB(A) beyond standard (max)
L___|     post no       place    road centre  daytimelh        daytime  -nighttime
1.    Majiaping    residential  E.50- 150    <70    <70       NO         15
K2300+000       area
2   YaogTo4n(W) mixed res   both sides    <72    <72          NO         17
K2334+800       atea      40- 200
3     Ttngouwan      village    E.50 - 200    <70    <70      NO         15
K2334+800
4    Tianzluit Twon    sclhool   E.30 - 150    <75    <75     NO         20
____    1(K348+100          .   _
5      Yezlingou     village    E.30 - 200    <75    <75      NO         15
K2354+500   _
6      Heisongyi     school   W.40 - 200   <72    <72         NO         17
_____   K2409+000
7     Guandimao      willage   W.50 - 200   <70    <70        NO         15
.__    K2414+200
8      Shibalipti    village    S.40 - 150    <72    <72      NO         17
K2415+400                                 I__   _
Gulang Town   residential   both sides    <72    <72    NO         17
.  E.K2525+100       area     40 - 200  |
Thle linmit noise level for vonstriction sites in GB12523-95 day:70-75dB.niglit 55dB
4.2.2.2 Assessment of Traffic Noise Impact during Operation Pliase
I )Noise levels of environment at sensitik'e spots
Trhe noise levels at environmentally sensitive spots in 2012 and 2020 predicted by
the noise model are seen in Table 4.7.
23



Table 4.7 Envirornnental Level during Op ration Pliase
dist.fom             noise Leq      beyond
order    place &      type of   road centre    year     dB(A)        standard
post no      place        (Im)               day   night  day  night
I     Majiaping   residential  E.50 - 150    2010   <56.0  52.5    0      0
K2300+000      area                   2022   <63.5  55.5    0    0.5
2     Yongdeng    mixed res   botlh sides    2010   <57.0  <53.0   0      0
Town (W)       atea     40   200      2022   <62.0  <57.0   0      2
K2318+800
3    Tungouwan   Tungouwan  E.50 - 200    2010    57.5   52.5    0        0
K2334+800    village                  2022    59.5   54.5    0      0
4   TianzhuTwon   sclhool    E.30 - 150    2010   <62.5  <54.4  2.5   4.4
K2348+100                             2022   <65.0  57.5   5.0   7.5
5     Yezhingou     village    E.30 - 200    2010   <57.0  <51.0   0      0
K2354+500                             2022    59.0   56.0    0    1.0
6     H{eisongyi    school   W.40 - 200   2010   <63.2  <55.0  3.2   5.0
K2409+000                             2000    67.6  <58.0  7.6   8.0
7     Guandimao    willage   W.50 - 200   2010   <59.0  <53.0   0         0
K2414+200                             2022   <63.3  <55.0   0       0
8   Shibalipu village   village    S.40 - 150    2010   <59.0  53.1    0  0
K2415+400                             2022   <63.0  <53.0   0      0
9    Gulang Town    mixed      both sides    2010   <58.0  <54.0   0      0
E:K2525+100   resident    40 - 200     2022   <60.0  <56.0   0       0
*Because the Longgoubao primary sclhool will be removed, noise assessment is not
carried out at this points.
2) EIA on Noise Environment
According to Table 4.7, some result can be concluded as follows:
a. Road traffic noise does no impact on residential areas at daytime
b. Road traffic noise does no obvious impact on residential areas at night except
individual villages which will exceed the noise standard in 2022 by less than 2 dB.
c. Road traffic noise does impact on to schools close to the road. One is the
primary school attached to Tianzhu Normal School and other is Heisongyi high School.
Some appropriate mitigation measures shall be taken to minimize unfavourable impact.
4.2.3 Ambient Air quality Impact Assessment
4.2.3.1 Impact of TSP on Environment during Construction
Flying dust or TSP is major pollution source during construction phase. Two
concentration processes produce dust pollution: mixture and transport of Lime-ash and
earth. Accordino to monitoring data about TSP, the content of TSP at 50 meters from
the mixing station onl the spot is less than l.OOmg/m3, while at 50 meters downwind
themixing station near the storge yard, the content is 8.9mg/r3 . At 100 meters-
1.65mg/m3, beyond 150 meters-no effect.
It is suggested therefore that no storage sites and mixing station should be set up
24



witlhin 200m  from  residential areas, lhospitals and schtool. particularly at section
K2347+800-K2348+300.
Due to dry weatlher, loessial soil and little rainfall, material transport may produce
dust pollution. Transporting. Tranisportinig, loadiing, uniloadinig  and  storage  of
construction materials wil contaminiate thie residenits and fannland, nearby. Thlerefore,
mitigation measure slhould be conducted with wrin-break, covering. frequent sprinkle
etc., wlhenever the wind blows swiftly.
In the project area, because of scare vegetation. thiat also leads to great dust oni the
land surface. This will be aggravated by the destructioni of the vegetation in tlle road
constniction Thus, more attentioni slhould be paid to the restoration of the vegetation.
Vegetation belts on the botlh aides of the road, for example, shiould be planted to reduce
the dust pollution caused by the constnrctioni of the proposed road.
4.2.3.2 Concentrationi Prediction or Co and NOx during Operation Phase
(I) Concentration PTediction of Pollutants
On the.basis of the traffic volume, daily average concentrations of CO and NOx
lhave been predicted by Gauses line source model. The background concentration
values for superposition are exsting 5-day average concentrations.
(2) Daily aver concentration
Tihe daily aver concentration of CO at differelnt sections utnder typical weatlher
conditions in 2010 and 2022 are listed in Table 4.8.
Table 4.8           Predicted Concenitrationi of CO and NOx duinng Operation Phase
order   sports    year   pollutant    daily aver.    if exceeds   assessment criteria
(mg/Nm 3)     standard       (vNmi3)
2010     CO  _     160-1.605        no    class 11 standards for air
I   Majiaping            NOx       0.024-0.038       no    quality (daily aver.)
2020     CO        1.60-1.625       no    CO:4.00
NOx      0.024-0.063       no     NOx:0.10
2010     CO       1.200-1.215      tno
2   Yongdeng   -          NOx      0.023-0.035       no
countytown   2020     CO       1.200-1.215       110
. ______   NOx      0.022-0.055      110
2010     CO       1.800-1.816       no
3    Tianzhu              NOx      0.034-0.046       no
countytown   2020     CO        1.803- .83       no
NOx      0.035-0. 068      no
2010     CO       1.202-1.226       no
4   Heisongyi             NOx      0.028-0.039       no
2020     CO       1.202- .230       n0o
__________         NOx       0.026-0.057      no
2010     CO       1.105-1.115       110
5     Gulang              NOx      0.028-0.040       no
countytown   2020     CO       1.105-1. 138      no
NOx      0.032-0058      nio
25



Within 20nn from  road -de in 2010, the daily aver. concentration is between
1.105-1.816mg/Nm3, that in 2022 is between  I. 14-1.83mg/Nm3 ,with both not
exceeding class I standards of Ambient Air Quality (4.00mg/Nm3). Table 4.8 also shiow
the daily  aver. concentrationi of NOx  at five crsections in  2010  and  2022
individually,whiclh  does not exceed class I standard of ambienlt air quality (0.
1 Omg/Nm3).
In short, the air along the proposed higlhway lhas not been polluted, with CO, Nox
and lead in the air not exceedinig the standard of NAAQ witlh exception of TSP due to
the loessisl topography. In the med-tenn anid long-term operation phase of the hiighway
(2010 and 2022) 9the concenitrationis of CO and NOx will not exceed the standards of
Ambient Air Quailty ,either. Tlherefore ,the' new road will not affect the air quality
along the line.
4.2.4 Water Quality Impact Analysis
4.2.4.1 During Constnrction Phase
In the construction period, pollution to water bodies during constructioni period comes
from:
(1)Dredging9material waslhing in bridge constructioni;
(2)Oil leakage from building maclhinery;
(3)Discliarge of domestic sewage and garbage into water bodies;
(4) Improper storage of alplhalt,oil and chemicals.
It is difficult to predict the impact on tlle water quality during the construction
phase, but the impact on thie water bodies can be reduced by taking some control
measures. For example I domestic sewage, garbage and fecal sewage from work camps
shall be treated centrally before discharging and materials like asphalt, oil and chemicals
shall not be permitted to be stored near drinking water wills or river.
4.2.4.2 Diaring Operatioui Phase
For contamination from the road rain water, the results of thie model are ahowi in
table 4.9
Table 4.9              Predicted Results of Riunoff Impact on Water Bodies
items        Shibaili Reservoir      Zhluanglanig River       Jiqinag River
(Ic gou River)
backgrotni prediction increnmenit backgrou predictiont inicremenit backgrou prediction incremenit
d value   value        nd value  value        nd value  value
CODMn(rng/L)   5.43    6.11    0.68    1.73    2.13    0.40    2.37    2.85    0.48
oil(nig/L)   0.02    0.09    0.07    0.02    0.06    0.04    0.02    0.07    0.05
Pb (ng/)    0.004   0.006   0.002   0.004   0.005   0.001   0.004  0.0054  0.0014
We can'see from Table 4.9 that early rain water of tlle road surface does some
impact water quality of surface water (Slhibali Reservoir, Zhuanglang River and
Jinqinag River). During the rain, the superposition of oil and background one tunis the
water quality into clsss N grade from the originial class 1. otlher kinds of pollutants do
not contaminate the water much. Table 4.9 also slhows small increment of pollutants by
26



max. daily runoff. Therefore we can conclude tllat the impact of runoff on surface water
is fairly small.
4.2.4.3 Impact Analysis of Sewage from Service Centres
According to the feasibility study report of the project ,two service centres namely
at Yongdeng and Tianzhlu will be built UP The facilities are:parking places,petrol
stations, garages, food and recreation centres and clinics. Waste water will be produecd
from these service centres. There are no municil)al draiinage systems in these area which
are very closs to the zhuanglang River and the Jiinqing River respectively. Disposal
stations, therefore, will be set up at the service centres. Waste water can discharge only
when it meets class I grade in GB 3978-88" Sewage Discharge Standards" or used for
irrigation.
Tlle waste materials of the service centre, suclh as batteries, tyres, will be collected
and he carried to Lanzllou waste station to dispose.
4.2.5 Impaact analysis on Society and Economy
4.2.5.1 Impact on Life Quality of Residents
(1 )Resettlement
Tle construction of the road is uniavoidable to take residential homesteads and
demolish a few houses. Tlouseliolds to vbe removed will be compensated for their loss
satistactorily to build better houses. The project will not do any unfavourable effect on
life quality of residents to be removed. For demolitioni amounit, see Table4.9
Table 4.9                        Housin, Demolition                  Unit:m2
county    brick lhouse brick and stud    adobe     thatclied     school
lhouse                    liouse
Yongdeng        144          784          840           0            0
Tianzhu       1132          651          1449         81           733
Gulang         72          351          452            0
(2) Traffic Disruption
People along the proposed road reside mostly in th valley and new road goes along
with the existing road be used as a subsidiary one. Beitig a totally enclosed highway, it
will bring some incovenienice to local residents in their contact. Thlerefore, enough
assage ways will be built up.
(3)Effect on Public Utilities
The proposed hihgway will cross:the East Main Irrigation Canal ( in Yongdeng).
The Main Canal (in Gulang), the existing Gan-Xin Highway and Lan -Xin Railway20
times, Xi'an-. anzhou- Wulumuqi indergound opticalcable 8times. So sa not to
interfere with their operation, the following measures will be taken: the planned road
will fly over the E. Main Canal. pass under the Main Canal. C ulverts will be built whlere
the roaad crosses optocal cable. Relevant units or enterprises shall be consulted for
their opinions in design and construction.
(4) Impact Anlysis on People'S Life
Tle new highway, when in operation, will ivprove traffic conditions, thus,
speeding up commodity circulation and helping comvert livestock products int goods.
27



It is goosd for development of tertiary industry and exploitation of minerals. sTibetans
and sove other minority nationalities inhabit these areas, so the new highway will
improve their life surrotiidings greatly.
The living stardards of the residents to be remvoved will be bettered due to
financial compensation, favoured pllicy and development of new industries etc. Tlle
planned highway will lhave sove unfavourable effect oni sound environment along the
route by lheavy traffic. Accordingly, some mitigation measures in cluding noise barrier
will be taken to keep good life surroundings.
4.2.5.21mpact on Ethnic Groups
There ate many minouiity nationialities along the proposed highway. Tianzhu and
Gulang counties, for example, are among the major relgions in these areas in whichl the
ethlnical groups believe. In construction of the hiighway, the religious policy and beliefif
shall be respected. In land acquisition and resettlemelt, their opinions sliaa be fiilly
considered, and practical protective measures will be taken so as to mitigate adverse
effects on schools and cemeteries etc.
4.2.5.3 Impact on City Planninig
Inroute selection, the alighment scheme was discussed asbout with local
authorities and city planning departments in Yongdeng, Tianzhtu and Gulang. Instep
with their city planning, both Yongedeng aind tianzihu suggested that the route detour
their county -towns. Indesign, their suggestio; us have been accepted.
28



5 Mitigatory Measures and Suggestions
5.1 Mitigatory Measures and Suggestion of L-Z Section
5. 1. 1 Mitigatory Measures during constructioni Pliase
5.1.1.1 Mitigatory Measure of soil erosion in constnictioni
(1) In the initial design period, the quantity of earthl work should be further
balanced and the cut should be made better use. Based on the designers carefui study,
the line and the road state have been appropriately chosen and the borrow will be made
use as much as possible so as to reduce discarded earth
(2) Construction process should be rationally arranged, so that the work is done
section by section to shorten the construction line. Whien the initial construction is over,
following protections should be made at once suclh as slope protection,  angle
protection, angle brace, retaining wall, roadbed side slope, vegetation planting,
drainage channels, etc. Then the next section can be started. In this way tle' time of
water soil loss can be minimized. For the earth work with too much excavation and fill
such as the section of Dashagou and the hilly valley section along Heli, the rainy
season should be avoided. Before raining season comes, the excavation, the fill,
the side slope of the abandoned spoil and the drainage works slhould be arranged well
and the blocked ditches and chainels slhould be cleared out in time to ensure the flood
discharge and reduce flood and water soil loss. In order to reduce rain scour and
erosion,   construction gradient should be minimized; excavation,  transport,
pavement and flattening should be made olie after anotlher.
(3) Wherever the roadbed digging may lead to surface runoff, temporary soil
precipitating tank slhould be installed to deposit the silt. Soil precipitating tank is
generally 0.5 m deep. The dimensions are determined by sluice area. Its location can be
made according to the landform and construction mode. Low-lying gully soil dam can
be used as precipitating tank, such as in the section of Qingbaislil.
(4) The inlet and. outlet ofthe tunnel, piling ground of longitudinal transport and
the place for abandoned spoil must be designed. Tfle abandoned spoil must be disposed
by flattening and afforestation with measures for drainage, leakage and flood control,
etc.
(5) Abandonment of soil and dregs must be prohibited along the river side sections
so that the river course will not be blocked and flood drainage will not be affected in
case of mud-rock flow.
(6) When the height of cutting slope is over 5 m, ladder-pattern should be
adopted on south slope. There should be a terrace every 5 meters with drainage ditches.
The height of north slope can be raised to 8-1 Om so that scour caused by slope runoff
can be avoided.
(7) For the scour place of slope top gully of the embankment, the weak place of
2(



the side slope of back field embankment and the emilbanikmenit along the river, grouted
flags must be applied for protection. For the other. side slopes of highl fill embankment,
turf must be planted.
(8) The sidewalk tree planting and the afforestation of thie roadbed side slope
should be carried out in the wake of the road constnrction. Some piling places of
abandoned soil must be afforested as well. The soil piling grounds must be covered with
mellow soil on whiclh trees slhould be planted.
5.1.1.2 Mitigatory Measures of Noise Impact in Constructioni
(l) Make reasonable arrangemenits about the working time.
No construction work shotuld be pennitted at nigl]t(22:00-6:00) at the sensitive
points. No material plants will be permitted to locate near Qingbaislii Middle School
(N-scheme ) and Gansu Education Inistitute (S-scheme ). The working time of the
high-noise equipment should be detennined after consultation with the schlools in order
to minimize the impact upon the teachinig.
(2) The high-noise equipment whiclh is installed for relatively longer time has to be
separated by necessary devices whichi can help prevent and reduce the noise impact.
5.1.1.3 Mitigation Measures of Air Pollutant in Construction
(1) The transportation route shotuld be choseni scientifically and rationally so as to
reduce the blown dust and the distance, and mitigate thie interference with the present
traffic.
(2)Water slhould be sprinlked 4 times a day to reduce the blown dust and flyash, twice
in the morning and afternoon respectively.
(3) Lime,cement, soil and coal ash should be covered closely in transportation.
(4) The materials slhould be stored I OOm away from the residence areas and fields.
(5)The materials should be stored on the lee side of residential areas.
(6) Measures of breakwind, covering, sprinkle, etc. should be adopted wherever there
is wind witlh high speed.
(7) The mixing ground slhould be away from the boundary of the Grade I standard
district of air environment quality for nio less than I 0OOni, no less than 300m from common
villages, and should be set up) on the leeward of the protective targets.
(8) Central mixing of lime, soil and coal aslh should be made.
(9) Central mixing of asphalt and concrete slhould be made.
(10) Transport asphalt and concrete in special vehicles.
( 11) Materials mixed with asphalt should be kept away from the boundary of Grade I
standard district for no less thani I OOOm and no less thaan 300m from common villages, and
on the lee side of the protective targets.
5.1.1.4 Other Mitigation Measure
(1) Occupy waste and arid land for temporary use as muchi as possible to reduce the
use of farm land.
(2).If farm land is taken up, compensaiioii should be made according to the
occupation time.
(3). Upon cornpletion of the construction, tlae land temporarily occupied should be
cleared out in time and restored to its original state.
30



(4) Some leftover bits of materials can be made in bridge construction, such as thrown away
reinforcing steel and concrete among wliiclh the steel can be reclaimed while the concrete can be
used as fill, and the useless parts can be disposed as gaibage.
(5) Some of the discarded spoil made in coiistrictioni of twnnels and deep through cuts
can be used as fill, and others as waste.
(6) Waste from the temporary living areas shotuld be disposed accordingly.
(7) In bridge construction, waste slhould not be allowed to contaminate the surface
water.
(8) If relics are found in constructioni, the work slhould be suspended to preserve them
and the report of the discovery slhould be submitted to the local archaeological department.
(9) Tlle work can be resumed only with the consent of the archaeological department.
(10) Thie methods of afforestation and land refonn witlh tree planting pits and hard
water platform of isolation slope should be adopted.
(11) Drouglht and poor soil endurinlg trees shouldl be clhosenl to plant.
(12) The places with water supply, such as overpasses, management houses, and
service zones, should be beautified.
(13) Shrubs, grass and flowers used to natural conditions slhould be planted on the
embankment and vacant space of side slope.
5.1.2 Mitigatory Meaures in Operation Period of L-Z Section
5.1.2.1 Mitigation Measure against Pb pollution in Operation
The polution of Pb, wheni going into the ecological system of air,  soil and the
plant,  will affect such processes as the circulation of matter, the flow of energy and
the dispatch of information. The projects for preventing Pb pollution are suggested in
the following:
(1)Trees should be planted on both sides of the highway to reduce the polluted
area. The diffusion of lead containiing air can be blocked by obstacles,  so that the
pollution of Pb can be controlled within a certain scope. These obstacles can play a part
in minimizing the scope and extent of Pb pollution.
(2) Measures should be taken to deposit PI) as much as possible in the component
of soil and to prevent its transfer or transformationi. As the soil of tile region concerned
is alkaline in nature, the activity of Pb is lessened; it will cause slight harm to the
crops. In the near future it cannot bring disasters to lhuman life. When the traffic flow
gets higher aiid the time of accumulation lengthtenis,  tile monitoring work should be
handled and enhanced so as to prevent Pb from thie pollution of agricultural eco-
system ;the environment quality assessment should be done in a proper and correct way.
Under necessary conditions,  such measures should be taken to improve the quality of
the soil and to prevent Pb pollution,  including the popularized use of calciferous,
magnesian and phosphorous fertilizers, humic acid fertilizers,  etc. Thney will on the
one hand reduce the pollution of Pb and on the other increase the yield of agricultural
produce.
(3)To prevent the entrance of Pb into the human body,  it is suggested that leafy
vegetables such as rape,  spinach , cabbages,  should not be grown on either side of
the highway since their leaves are larger and have tiny hairs. Pb deposited on the leaves
31



can enter the plant through stomata and so it will do hanr to those wlho eat tbem. Tlle
sources of pollution should be reduced as mucli as possible. On the basis of a clear anld
distinct view of meclhanisms of Pb pollution,  concrete actions should be adopted in a
comprehensive way to get rid of its calamities, including blocking the ways of
pollution,  removing the dangers of pollution,  refuising to cultivate tlle polluted land
and minimizing the sources of pollution.
5.1.1.2 Mitigation Measures against Noise impact in Operation
After the proposed road is put into service,  the traffic management units
together with the concening departments slhotuld take steps to reinforce the traffic
management and the control of the single vehicle noise. Meanwhiile, the following
preventive measures are offered for consideration:
(1)The green belt slhould be built up along the proposed road - the high-grade
provincial expressway - for the purpose of beauitifying the environmnent , reducilng
the traffic noise and preventing pollution.
(2)The signs wlhichl prohibit the use of horns at the sensitive points, i.e. schools are
to be put up in order to minimize the ablrupt noise events.
(3))Other Various measures also should be takeen to prevent the traffic noise at the
sensitive points.
The Offices and classrooms Qilbaislhi sclhool have to be installed witlh the double-
layer glass and the east enclosure wall of thle schlool slhould be raised to 3
meters.2000OYuan RMB  will be put into for the purpose,  by so doing the
environmental noise inside the school can be reduced below 55 dB(A).
In order to make the traffic noise inside Gansui Education Institute below 55
dB(A), the enclosure wall near the proposed road hias to be raised to 3 meters too,
and the windows of the teachinig buildinig close to the road must be equipped with the
double-layer glass, and 100000 Yuan RMB will be needed for the purpose.
Trees have to be densely planted between other sensitive points and the proposed
road.
(4)when the road is put into operation,  the concerning imanagemenit departments
have to monitor and investigate the traffic noise at the key noise sensitive points so that
more practical measures can be put forth to deal witlh the traffic nioise.
5.1.2.3 Mitigation Measures against Velhicle Exhiaust Gas
(I) The technical standards of velicles should be raised so as to reduce the pollutant
discharge of one single vehiicle and at the same time the technical standards of the original
road should be raised. The idling disclharge because of traffic jam slhould be prevented.
(2) Afforestation design should be malde in con sider-ationi of the reqtuiremeints of the
protection, draught, and diffusion of thie targets.
(3) No residential area, sclhool, hospital, etc. in any sensitive sites sliould be built
within thie range of 200m from botlh sides of the higlhway.
5.1.2.4 Other Mitigation Measures in Operation
(1). Upon operation, soil erosion will reduce tremendously while the protective
measures of the lhiglhway are implemented. Yet hiydrolic works slhould be monitored,
repaired and maintained in time.
32



(2) Trees should be planted along both sides of the road.
(3) It is suggested that wastewater treatment facilities should be equipped and living
garbage should be removed regularly.
(4) Petrol discharge and fire disaster should be prohibited and prevented in service
zone.
5.2 Mitigatory Measures and Suggestion  of X-G
section
5.2.1 Mitigatory Measures during Construction Phase
5.2.1.1 Protection of Eclogical Environment
On the basis of the ecological Enalysis, the following rmitigation measures and
suggestions have been put forward:
(1) Full use of land features ans topography shall be made to minimize heavy
excavation so sa not to damage surface vegetation.
(2) Mountanin-cutting shall be avoided by every mens. Interception ditches will be
dug where there cutting is done on a large 7scale as at Shibali Reservoiu section. In
addition, the cut slopes shall be protected to prevent soil erosion and collapse.
(3) All necessatry steps sh]l be taken to perevent earth and stones from silting
rivers, particularly at Yongdeng and Tianzhu transit sections.
(4) Spoil saUl be stored in the lowlands or gullies, and dams or protective slopes
shall be provided down the storage sites. Farmland can be reclaimed where possible.
Besides, earth and stone work shall be made full use of to reduce spoil. K2310-K2311,
K2351- K2352, K2390-2395are sections where there is more spoil, which shall be paid
attention to.
(5) The construction can not be carried out unless effective preventative measures
are taken so as not to ptrevent the canals from working properly since the planned road
will cross E. Ying deng Truck Canal (at K3227+600)AND Gulang Main Canal 9at
K2427+800).
(6) At Shibali Reservoir Section, it is necessary to build rdtaining walls in case
earth and stone slhould silt up the reservoir. River stone embankments will be also
important to protect subgrade slopes.
(7) Plantation slhall be done simultaneouly sa the project goes on where plssible.
Trees and grasses shall be clhosen that grow well in those areas such as poplars, willows
and duought -enduring grasses.
(8) At transit sections of countytowns os Yongdeng, Tianzhu and Gulang, the
interchanges and their surrounding areas shall be decorated by planting trees and
grasses like a garden.
(9) During construction, it is required to as less farmland as plssible and avoid
damaging it. Arable land sliall be restored and reclaimed after construction work is
completed. All mitigation measures aiming at prevention will be included in the project
documents including bid documents so that they will be properly implemented during
33



actual onstruction work.
5.2.1.2 ControlMeasures against Noise
(1) Noisy construction work should be avoided between22:00-6:00 at all sound
sensitive spots;
(2) Construction work near sound sensitive schools (the primary school attached
to Tianzhu Minority Normal School and Heisongyi High school ) shall not interfere
with teaching. No materials plants will be permitted to locate near the two schools. The
working time of high -noise equipment should be determined after consultation with the
schools in order to minimizde the impact upon the teaching.
5.2.1.3 Measures against Dust aand Asphalt Fumes
(1) Dry weather, mixing of road building materials and earthwork transport will
result in dust affecting residents. It is suggested therefore that no storage sites and
mixing stations should be set up within200m from residential areas, hospitals and
school, particularly at section K2347+800-K2348+300.
(2) Great amount of saphalt -concrete for pavement wil be prepaired by enclosed
mixing equipment at temporary mixing station, doing no effect on environment with
proper location. According to relevant regulations, asphalt-enclosed equipment shall be
alloxed to be used.
(3)Transporting, loading, uniloadingand storage of the materials will contaminate
the residents and farmland near by. Therefore, mitigation measures of preventing dust
should be conducted with windbreak, covering, frequent sprinkle, etc, whenever the
wind blows swifty. In addition, at the air sensitive, vegetation belts on both sides of the
road, for example, should be planted to reduce the dust poDlutin caused by the
construction of the proposed road.
5.2.1.4 Control Measures against Water Pollution
(1) Domestic sewage, garbage shall be treated centrally before disclharging.
(2)1n bridge contruction, machines and ships shall be examined regularly in case
oiDeakage occurl
(3)No construction waste andwaste oil allowed to be thrown into public water
bodies.
5.2.2 Mitigatory Measures during Operation Pliase of X-G Section
5.2.2.1 Traffic Noise
(1) Engineering measures; Two noise -barrier walls are suggested being built at
the Minority Primary School of Tianzhu and HeisonlgyiHigh school where the noise
lever exceeds the standard. The scale of insulating walls is shown in Table6-1. There
are300students   andl Istaff  members  in   Longgoubao   Primary   School
(K2402+600)which is very close to the wxisting highway312, thus teaching is
seriouslyaffected by traffic noise. With ahreement of the school and local authority, the
school will be removed to a new place, The cost for the new school with better
conditions is about 600,0 yuan.
(2) Management Measures:Horning prohibition signs shall be posted at school
sections.
34



Table 5.1                      Control Measures against Traffic Noise
sensitive   dist from   exceeding standard by   measures   amount  cost  implemen
spots   central line     (dB)                     (height x   (10,000  tation
(m)     year   day   night              length)    yuah)   time
Prim. sch.          2010   2.5    4.4                                 Constnljc
attatched to    30                         sound   300 x 3.5m2    31   onofnoise
Tm!huMNity           2022   5.0    7.5   barriers                       barriers
nunSch   _ill be
Heisongyi    40     2010   3.2    5.0    sound   200 x 3.5m2    17   competed
H. Sch.            2022   8.6    8.0   barriers                       befo the
Longgoubao   030-                         removed    1500m2       60   road will
Prim. Sch. __                .                                         be put into
total                               108  operation
5.2.2.2 Preventing of Vehicular exhaust gases
Scrubs and arbors are suggested to be planted along the route at sections where they
grow well to absorb and clean exhaust gases sa well sa tbeautify the environment at
same time. Tail gases monitoring spots shall be set up at toll -stations and large -
pollution -causing vehicles are not allowed to run on the road.
5.2.3 Protection of Shibalibu Reservoir
Althongh the project will not affect water quality in the reservoir much, securityi
management shall be strengthened to keep vehicles carrying hazardous materials from
turning over int LonggouRiver or the reservoir contaminatilg the water.
5.2.4 Slope protection of Subgrade Slope and Cutting Slope
Slope pretection works shall be paid attention to r]prevent potential soil erosion
from happening as did on embankments of the locas existing class2highways. Plantation
of trees and grasses on road shoulder and slopes and other effective measures will be
good for that.
5.2.5 Environmental Protection Measures for Service Centres
Two sewage disposal stations will be installed at two service centres individually
to treat waste water berfore discharging. Isnaddition, dovestic garbage and other
pollutants sahll be removed regularly, and management shall be strengthenod to guard
against fires and oil leakage
6 Alternative Analysis
6.1 Alternative Analysis of L-Z section
On the liugouhe-zhonghe highway, the section from Donggang to Zaoshugou
have northern scheme and southem scheme can be selected. Both of the two schemes
35



can provide a quick and convenient way for vehicles through the city of Lanzhou, but
have different advantages and disadvantage from environmental perspectives.
The different impact of two schemes are shown in table 6.1.
Table 6.1                  Impact of the two schemes
Items        comparison of 2                     causes
schemes
S-schem pass through Lanzhou's sophtisticall region
of scientific and technological exploration. The land
occupied will be higher in price and better in quality,
social environment                 the region may be cut in two parts,  More
N-scheme<S-scheme pavementsand exits must be built, N-scheme go
through countryside and will be much smaller in the
social influence than S-scheme
agro-environment  N-scheme<S-scheme S-scheme going through more and better fields and
vegetable plots
soil erosion    N-scheme>S-scheme N-scheme going through mountains and more serious
in soil erosion but onl 3112 tons
noise            N-scheme<S-scheme S-scheme have more students to be impact and
having more difficult ways to provent the noise
impact
air pollution    N-scheme<S-scheme S-scheme nave more traffic volume in the Lanzhou
city where the air have been seriously polluted
water pollution    N-scheme<S-scheme S-scheme have longer section along the rivers
seismological    N-scheme<S-scheme N-scheme going by a roun about way of it, S-
oberservatory                      scheme having more impacted on the oberseervatory
As shown in the above table, N-scheme have less environmental impact than S-
scheme, if we adopt proper policies and tactics, we can lessen influence to the
minimum. Although, N-scheme have more soil erosion, taking the environment as a
whole, N-scheme is preferable and can be recommended.
6.2 Alternative Analysis of X-G section
According to "the Feasibility S tudy Report of the Proposed Road, the re are six
alternative schemes, namely 1) Yongdeng County- town Transit Scheme; 2)Fuqingbao
Railway -Crossing Schenme; 3) Tianzhu County- town Transit Scheme; 4)Shimenhe
Transit Scheme; 5) Jinqiangyi River passing over Scheme and6)Wushaoling Mountain-
climbing; Scheme. We will compare and analyze Yongdeng and Tianzhu schemes from
the viewpoint of E. P.
6.2.1 Engineering Factor Comparison
Comparison of work amount and traffic environment of Scheme I ( passing through
the town )and Scheme2(detouring the town )of both is shown in Tables6-2 and6-3
36



Bassed on comparison, Scheme2was put forward as recommended one. The Fig 6 land
Fig. 6-2 show the sketch maps of Transit schemes at Yongdeng county -town and
Tinanzhu Counitry -town.
6.2.2 El Comparison
Tn terms of EP, Schemelwill have more interference with urban life ane vore
demolition with high cost for land acquisition. In addition, vehicular gases ansd noise
will affect more people. While Scheme2, detouring the town, will have less adverse
effct. Schemeldoes not keep in step with the urban planning of both counties, but
Scheme2does. Seen from all sides, Scheme2was recommended.
6.2.3 Opinions from Local Governments and the Masses
The local governments and experts of Yongdeng and Tianzhu were in favour of
Scheme2according to consultation for its advantageds in EP. In short, scheme2was
chosen and recommended for being reasonable in engineering and EP.
Table6-2                  Comparison of Transot Scheme at Yongdeng
item           unit            scheme I                scheme II
_I    Land features                   riverside terrace       riverside terrace
2        length          km                5.96                    6.325
3  subgrade earthwork    km3              437.974                 439.803
4    protection and      km3               11.936                  19.518
drainage works
5      pavement          km2              53.640                  51.822
6     large bridge    mrtplace          rebuilt 154/1             453.51/2
7    1  culvert         place               52                      48
8     interchange       place               2                        2
9   grade separation    place                -
10      passage          place               6
11    optical cable       m                 985                     500
12     land take          mu               427.9                   260.92
13    estimated cost   10,000 yuan       7646.1501               9802.8411
smootlh network connection, good for network], good for
advantages good for centralizing &  protection of some
.        distributing traffic volume  farmland, away from central
part of city, less noise
comparison of EI                will take some parts of         more cost
Binhe Road of Yongdeng,
not in step with city
disadvant  planning of Yongdeng,
-ages    more effect resulting from
tailgases and noise, high
land-acquisition cost
opinions of local government                                  in favour of
result                       compared              recommended
37



Figule 6-i  Sketdh mnal) of' Traisit Sclhcines at Yoliig,elig Coiuilty-towii--
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 2
'\ i '( "1
~\
-~~~                         .   k~~~~~~ A 31
Li~   ~    7 zj'?4~f7i""~                           
00~~~~~~~~~~~I... 1$~~/k~



U i(                                                 -                                                                 .-2JJ\  -mJ
I                                  44 
.fl -).-- u



7 Outline of EAP and Environmental Cost
7.1 Outline of Environmental Action Plan
7.1.1 EAP of L-Z section
The EAP falls into three phases: design, construction & operation. See Table 7.1,
7.2, 7.3 respectively for detail.
Table 7.1                                  EAP in Design Stage of L-Z Section
Description                          Environmental    Principles
selection of  Protect and make rational use of water and land resources. Connect as much as
route    possible with other roads to formn traffic network.
soil erosion In order to prevent the main and surface parts of the subgrade from erosion by surface
water, various measures can be applied to the side slope of the roadbed. The design of
waterway system of the line should be made in consideration of water conservation so
as to drain off surface water smoothly. The overpass afforestation is planned for the
whole line with border trees in single row on both sides of the road. Afforestation
should be made on road shoulder, fill and side slope.
social segment Design a number of overpasses, culverts, bridges and tunnels.
earth work  In order to minimize excavation, occupy less farTn land and reduce landform destruction
to a very small degree, central soil fetch should be made as much as possible, and the
fill and cut should be kept in balance.
water pollution Wastewater treatment facilities should be designed and equipped in the living areas of
the workers.
noise    Higher walls, windows of double-layer glass, etc. should be furnished at the noise
sensitive points.
floods    Trees and grass should be planted in the drainage areas. Protect the vegetation to
stabilize the slopes. According to the actual flood conditions, appropriate bridges of
large, middle and small sizes should be designed accordingly and the ditches should be
kept unblocked. The sections that are eroded by mud flow, side slope of roadbed and
part of the bank should be strengthened
afforestation  It is made to shield dazzle and wind, and clean the air. It can make the environment
more beautiful and at the same time conserve water and soil as well
landscape   Artistical effects should be paid attention to in afforestation and bridge design.
40



Table 7.2                 EAp in Construction Period of L-Z Section
Environment                  Environmental  Measures                  Executive Supervisory
Problems                                                               Unit        Unit
discarded   1. The borrow ground should be disposed to some extent; the   GPCD   Environmen
spoil pile,  form of discarded spoil ground should be regular; the above 2      t Protection
excavation & grounds should be covered with earth as thick as 0.5m- 1 .Om.       Section of
borrow    2.The process of the construction should be arranged rationally.     Gansu
3. The slopes should be fixed.                                      Provincial
4. The drainage ditches should be kept unblocked.                   highway
temporary  1. Occupy waste and arid land for temporary use as much as           Bureau,
use     possible to reduce the use of faml land.                             local
of land    2.1f farm  land is taken up, compensation should be made           environmen
according to the occupation time.                                   t protection
3. Upon completion of the construction, the land temporarily        dept. &
occupied should be cleared out in time and restored to its original  agriculture
state.                                                              dept.
bridges &   1. Some leftover bits of materials can be made in bridge construction,
culverts,  such as thuwn away reinforcing steel ard concrete among which the
steel can be reclaimed while the concrete can be used as fill, and the
useless parts can be disposed as garbage.
2.Some of the discarded spoil made in construction of tunnels and
deep through cuts can be used as fill, and others as waste.
waste from  1. Waste from the temporary living areas should be disposed
workers   accordingly.
2.1n bridge construction, waste should not be allowed to
contaminate the surface water.
blown dust 1. The transportation route should be chosen scientifically and
from     rationally so as to reduce the blown dust and the distance, and
construction mitigate the interference with the present traffic.
materials in 2.Water should be sprinkled 4 times a day to reduce thie blown
transportation dust and flyash, tvice in the morning and afternoon
respectively.
3. Lime,cement, soil and coal ash should be covered closely in
transportation.
storage of  1. The materials should be stored 1i OOm away from  the
construction residence areas and fields.
materials  2.The materials should be stored on the lee side of residential
areas.
3. Measures of breakwind, covering, sprinkle, etc. should be
adopted wherever there is wind witlh high speed.
41



Environnient                 Environmiental  Measures                  Executive Supervisory
Problems                                                                Unit        Unit
noise    1. Working time should be reasonably arranged to reduce the
impact on the sensitive pohits, such as, Qingbaishi Middle
School, Gansu Education Instituite, where the work mainly
proceeds in vacations.
2.Apparatus installed for a long time witli loud noise should be
kept frolm each sensitive point for a protective distance and
simple noise barriers shiould be set up if necessary.
3. Work is forbidden from 22:00 to 6:00 next morning.
4. Apparatus should be often exanined and repaired to reduce
noise.
blown dust  1. The mixing ground should be away from the boulidary o
from mixing the Grade I standard district of air environnienit quality for no
ground   less than 1iOOOm, no less thani 300iii fronm cominon villages,
and should be set up on the leeward oftthe protective targets.
2.Central mixing of lime, soil and coal ash should be made.
asphalt   1. Central mixing of asphalt and concrete should be mlade.
smoke    2.Transport asphalt and concrete in special vehicles.
3. Materials mixed withi asphalt should be kept away from the
boundary of Grade I standard district for no less than IOOmin
and no less than 300m from commiion villages, and on the lee
side of the protective targets.
cultural relics 1. If relics are found in construction, the work should be
under ground suspended to preserve them and the report of the discovery
should be submitted to the local archaeological departilent.
2.The work can be resumed only with the consent of the
archaeological department.
afforestation 1. The methods of afforestation and land reform with tree
planting pits and hard water platfoni of isolation slope should
be adopted.
2.Drought and poor soil endurinig trees should be chosen to
plant.
3. The places with water supply, sucih as overpasses,
m anagement houses, and service zones, should be beautified.
4. Shrubs, grass and flowers used to natiral cenditions should
be planted on the embankment and vacant space of side slope.
42



Table 7.3 Outline of Environmental Measures in Operation Period
Environment                Environmental Measures                 Executive  Supervisory
Problems                                                          Unit        Unit
noise of   1. As a high-grade expressway in Gansu, conditions should   GPCD   Environment
communi-  be created to make green belts so that landscape can be         Protection
cations   improved and noise reduced.                                    Bureau of
2.Traffic signs that prohibit the use of horn should be set tip  lanzhou City
near the sensitive points of noise, i.e. schools, etc. to prevent
abrupt noise event from happening.
3. The traffic noise monitoring, survey and verification
should be made in the principal protective targets of noise by
concerning departments. The measures should be further
improved according to the practical situation.
vehicle   1. The technical standards of vehicles should be raised so as
exhaust gas to reduce the pollutant discharge of one single vehicle and at
the same time the technical standards of the original road
should be raised. The idling discharge because of traffic jam
should be prevented.
2.Afforestation design should be made in consideration of the
requirements of the protection, draught, and diffusion of the
targets.
3. No residential area, school, hospital, etc. in any sensitive
sites should be built within the range of 200m from both
sides of the highway.
soil erosion 1. Upon operation, soil erosion will reduce tremendously while
the protective measures of the highway are implemented. Yet
hydrolic works should be monitored, repaired and maintained
in time.
agricultural 1. Trees should be planted along both sides of the road to   ditto  ditto
impact   mitigate the Pb impact pollution.
2.Pb which has come into the ecological system of "air-soil-
plant" should be deposited as much as possible in the soil stage
of the system so that it won't transfer.
3. It is suggested that vegetables such as rape, spinage,
Chinese cabbage, etc. with their leaves edible should be
planted as little as possible within the scope of Sm from the
road so as to prevent Pb from entering human body.
waste in  1. It is suggested that wastewater treatment facilities should be
service zone equipped and living garbage should be removed regularly.
2.Petrol discharge and fire disaster should be prohibited and
prevented in service zone.
43



7.1.2 EAP of X-G section
The EAP falls into three phases: design, construction & operation. See Table 7.4,
7.5, 7.6 respectively for detail.
Table 7.4    EAP for Design Phases of X-G stction
order item       EP requirements    responsible entity management unit implementation
.__ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 tim e
1   alignment   I.   avoid   large Gansu
selection    sensitive  spots  at Parovincial  Gansu
Yongdeng & Tianzhu Traffic         Provincial
transit  section  to Planning &    communications  Jan. - Dec.1996
reduce demolition;   Survey        Division
2.take arable land as Institute    (GPCD)
less as possible   (GPTPSI)
2    bridge &    L.not interfere with
culvert     Yongdeng E Canal &
design      Gulang Main Canal;     GPTPSI           GPCD       Dec.1996 - Feb.
2. not interfere with                              1997
Xian  -   Wulumqi
optical cable
3    subgrade    Minimize  earthwork
works       by   carrying   out
balance  analysis to    GPTPSI          GPCD            ditto
reduce soil erosion
4    plantation & general management
environment and subgrade stability  GPTPSI          GPCD            ditto
5    borrw    & 1. use deserted land or
spoil   area bench land as borrow
design      pits;                  GPTPSI           GPCD             ditto
2. prevent soil erosion
at. borrow & spoil
sites
6    land        1. reduce land take
acquisition & and demolition by
resettlement every means           GPTPSI           GPCD             ditto
2. compensation  &
resettlement
44



Table 7.5 EAP for Construction Phase of X-G section
item                                        EPmeasures                                   responsible managemen auditing&.   implement
entity     t unit  supervision  -ation time
1. No storage sites and mixing stations should be set up within200m from residential areas,
and schools.
2. Asphalt-concrete mixing stations shall be300m a way from the residential quarters on
air pollution   side.
3. Mitigation measure of preventing dust will be conducted with windbreak, covering,
rfrequent sprinkle, etc in order to minimixe TSP pollutions caused by transportation,                 EP Bereau of
loading or unloading of the construction materials.                                                    Yongdeng,
4. Vegetation belts will be planted in both wides of the road at the air sensitive points.
water evironment 5. disposal of domestic &. fecal sewage and garbage before discharging.       employer   GPCD   Tianzhuand    1998-
&. environmental 6. garbage will be collected at worker'scamps                                                        Gulong         2002
hygiene
7. no construction work is allowed at night at all sound sensitive points, sepecially no
construCtion  interference with teaching permitted at school sections
noise      8. earing protection for construction worker operating the high-noise equipment will be
provided and working hours shalll be arranged reasonably.
9. prevention against soil erosion at cutting excavation sections
10. At Shibali Resrvoir Section, retaining walls will be installed in case earth and stone will
silt up the reservoir.
soil erosion   11. prevention against soil erosion at horrow&. spoil sites
12. At bad geological section(K2387+ 700- K2391), interception ditches will be built up to               EPB of
surface from slopes, and net blind ditches will be provided to get rid of ground water to              Yongdeng,
prevent the embankment.                                                                                 Tianzhu
construction   13. safety &. security measures                                                employer   GPCD   and Gulang          1998-
safety     14. traffic management(speed limit, traffic regulations etc.)                                                         2002
farmland    15. reclamation of arable land on compltion of project where plssible



Table 7.6           EAP for Operation Phase of X-G section
EP measures              amount   resposible    nots   implementati
entity                 on time
for traffic noise
1. Noise insulating walls at prim. 300 x 3.5m2  GPCD
sch. of Tianzhu Normal School
2.  Noise  insulating  walls  at 200 x 3.5m2  GPCD         timely
heisongyi Hschool                                       implementati
3. No horning signs at school                           on according July,
sections                                                to monitored 2001-2017
.  for service centres                    value &
I Waste wter treatment station at              GPCD       control
service centre                                           measuress
2.  Waste  materials  such  as
batteries, tyres will be collected
7.2 Organizational Scheme of Environmental mangaement
superivision
The orgenization structure and fimctions
In construction period: can be seen Fig 7.1
| GPCD/World Bank Project Office    |    I(1), (2)
|(A Vice director Resos fo Environment)|
Environment Protection Office    (3), (4),
(5)
(4 staff)
Environmental Protection                   Environmental Protection
Group for L-Z section                      Group for X-G section
(2 staff)                                   (2 staff)
* No.1   No.2No.3] N~o.4N.Ao6N.                  o8 N.         o1
*: One environmental supervision engineer at each contract section
46



Fig.7. 1 Organization Struction and Function in Construction Period
In operation period, can be seen Fi 7.2
GPCD/World Bank Project Office             (
(A Vice Director Res onse for Environment)
Environmental Projection Office           3), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8)
(4 staff)
Fig 7.2 Organization Struction and Function In Operation Period
Note: (1), (2), (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  (7),  (8) are the number of following
functions:
(1) Overall responsibilities of environmental management and super vision
(2) Coordination among concerned bodies including local environmental authorities.
(3) Development of plans of management and monitoring
(4) Preparation of quartly environmental reports including monitoring data.
(5) Planing and implementing environmental training
(6) Inspection/supervision of environmental or construction sites.
(7) Implementation of environmental monitoring
(8) Handing daily environmental issues.
7.3 Environmental Monitoring
7.3.1 Enviromental Monitoring of IZ section
Table 7.7    Enviromnental Monitoring Process in Construction Period of L-Z Section
Environs-         Monitoring Points           Monitoring    Monitoring Time &  Executive
mental                                        Content         Frequency         Unit
Elements
asphalt mixing station, earth mixing             4 times a year; each supervisio
air   round, excavation, borrowing,   T. S. P.         time lasting 3 days   n engineer
cutting; 2-3 monitoring points in each                               at
section                                                              constructi
.______  on  site
work site near residential areas or    environmental   I day every two
noise   vicinity of schools; 3-4 points in each noise Leq,  day weeks; 2 times a day
section                          and night       (one in moning,
one in aftemoon)
from upstream and downstream of the  pH, SS, DO, 4 times a year, each
water  rivers to the road where it crosses COD,   BOD5, time lasting 3 days
quality  them for I 00m respectively      Pb,
oils.                         .
47



Table 7.8     Environmental Monitorin  Process in Operation Period of L-Z Section
Environ-       Monitoring Points         Monitoring Contents    Monitoring Tinme &  Executiv
mental                                                             Frequency       e Unit
Elements
highway entrance & entrance gas-powered vehicles:                        Environ
exhaust   of overpass                 exhaust gas CO, HC        regular check &     mental
gas &                                 diesel-powered vehicles:   random inspection   Protecti
noise                                 FSN, traffic noise                            on
Scheme I:                   NOx, CO, CIIHm, T. S. P.   2 tnies a year (one in  Office
Fangjiaquan, Yantan                                   winter, one in sumner), under
air       Scheme II:                                            each time lasting 5   GPCD
Qingbaishi middle school,                             days; sampling at
Yanchangbu                                            7:00, 11:00,15:00,
19:00 each day
ditto                       enviroiinmienital noise leq,    2 times a year,
noise                                 day                       each time lasting I
and night                day (one time at day,
one time at night)
from      upstreami     and pH, SS, DO, COD, BOD5,
surface    downstream of the rivers to the Pb, oils.
water     road where it crosses them for
lOOin respectively; Pb content in
,vegetables & fruits from Yantan
7.3.2 Environmental Monitoring of X-G section
table 7.9                  Environmental Monitorin  Plan of L-Z Section
implementation monitoring     place        monitoring   monitoring cost   repsible entity
time        items                     frequency      (10,000/a)
I. Ambient Huazangsi      dust:quarterly     2.00      supervisor
air quality  Heisongyi    TSP: 4 times a               Monitor
1). dust    Village Gulanhg year, 3 days     4.00      Environmental
construction  2).TSP    county(E)      continuously a               Monitoring section of
phase                               time, 4 times of              GPCD Reporting EP
1998-2002                              sampling a day               DEPT. under GPCD
2.Noise    Construction    weekly, 2-3        0.50     supervisor
sites at sensitive times a day
sports
I.Air      Huazangsi      2 tiiesayear,
pollution    Heisongyi     5as ofpsan-ing     6.00      EMS of GPCD
NOx, CO,  Village Gulanhg atines,4tmes
TSP        county(E)       p__e day
operatrion             Pni sixdattaied 4 days a year,
phase     2. Noise   toDTizliuNcni-I  onetimeat         0.80      EMS of GPCD
2002-2022               Sdxd Fswg H  daytime &
SdW l          nigihttimle a day
3. Water    Shibali Reservoir 2 times a year, 2
bodies COD, andlingqiang    days of sampling  1.20      EMS of GPCD
_Po, pH     River          a timen
48



7.4 Equipment for Environmental Monitoring
See table 7. 10 for details
Table 7.10     Monitoring Instruments/Facilities
Order          Name              Model         Unit price    Number        total cost
(10. 000 yuan           (thousand yuan RMB)
_____    RMB)
I  BOD measuring equipment   MACH               0.5           1            0.5
2   COD tester                 MACH             0.7           1             0.7
3   Ultraviolet             WF-2900-D4          6.2           l            6.2
spect rophotomiieter
4   TSP sampler               KB- 120E         0.35           6            2.1
5  air pollution sampler       HB-2            0.35           6            2.1
6   CO tester                KKLS-401            3            1            3.0
7  atoniic absorption          IF2132          12.0           1            12.0
_____ spectrograph
8  noise dictator                               2.5           4            10.0
9  analysis scale (1/10000)   TQ328A            0.6           2             1.2
10  dust tester                                 0.05          16            0.8
11  computer                  AST-586           3.0           1             3.0
12  reagent etc.                                                            10
13  monitoring car                              30            1             30
Total                         .. .                             41            81.6
7.5 Environmnetal person Training
See table 7.1 1 for details
Table 7.11                   Personal Training for EP of The Proposed Highw ay
Training Component         Number         Duration     Cost (Yuan)      Remarks
High-Level Engineer                I           30days         83000          Foreign
Env. Protection                    2         2 x 30days    2 x 83000         Foreign
(Management /
Administrative)
Environmental Supervision         16        16 x 30days    16 x 2100        Domestic
And Monitoring (Technical)
Total     - -__                   19         19 x 30day      282,600
7.6. Total net cost of Environment
Table 7.12   Cost of Environmental Protection of L-Z    unit million Yuan RMB
Items                                     Cost
slope protection & prevention of water soil loss                     16.9260
noise prevention                                                     0.3120
afforestation & green area on road sides                              1.7620
pollution control in living areas                                    0.0980
wastewater  treatment                                                0.1200
Total                                    17.9020
49



Table 7.13      Cost Estimate for EP of X-G and Its Sources
order             items               amout       cost          fund             remarks
( 10,000 yuan)    sources
I  EP design                                    15.00
2  spraying for dust control during    500 days  10.00     engineering  500 day x 200 yuanld
construction
3  disposal of domestic garbage &               3.00       engineering  construction camps
waste at worker' s camps
4  waste water treatment station at   2         60.0       engineering
service centres
5  clearing up the site & land                  6.00       engineering
reclamation
6  measures for borrow & spoil sites            30.00      engineering  borow or spoil areas
to prevent soil erosion                I
7  maintenace of lical road                     40.00      engineering  mending or compensation
8  safety measures                              54.00      engineering  27 x 20.00(yuan)
9  noise-insulating walls Tianzhu  1050m2       31.00      engineering  300 yuangtm2
I school
1 0  noise-insulating walls for     700m2       17.00      maintenace  250 yuan/im2
Heisongyi HSchool
II  removement & rebuilding of      1500m2       60        engineering
Longgoubao Prim.Sch
envir. monitoring during                     6.50      maintenace
12 construction
envir. monitoring during operation           8.0      meter purchaset
1 3  euipment & meters for monitomg    4 1       8 1      meter purclhase___________
14  maintenace of equipment                      4.20     meter purchase equipment & meter
15  personnel training                          20.00     training cost 20 x 10,000(yuan)
16  embankment & sidewalk plantation             350       engineering
17  slope drainage, measures agaist             2100.      engineering
soil erosion
total                                      2895.7
Table 7.14 Total Net Cost of EP                                Unit  million RMB Yuan
L-Z section                                          17.902
X-G section                                          28.957
Total                                            46.859
50n



8. Benefit Analysis of Envoronment and
Econmy
8.1 Economic Benefit Analysis
The direct and indirect benefits of the proposed- hihgway are as follows: (I)
improvement of environment for social production; (2) more employment chanced;
(3)promotion of resoturce exploitation and rise in value of land; (4)extension of social
commodities; (5) speeding- up of turnover of materials; (6) increase of ability to fight
againg st natural disasters; (7)mitigation of crowded traffic; ( 8) shoTtage of mileage;
(9)saving of time; (lO)improvement of driving conditions and thus rdueduction of
traffic accidents.
The results of economic evaluation of L-Z highway are as follows: the economic cost ratio
is larger than l; the present economic net value of dynamic economy is larger than O;the
reclamation period of investment is about 15 years; and the economic interior benefit ratio is
larger than 12% The indices are fairly good.
Afinancial assessment on the recommeded scheme X-G which shows that the
dynarnic EBCRis greater thanl; the dynamic GNPVis greater than zero; financial
recoverhypreriod isl5years:EIRRis greatertlianl2%'the social discount rate is2O. 07%.
n'he sensitivity analysis also shows that if the cost were to be increased by2O%with a
decrease of benefit of2O%, the dynamic EBCRwould be greater than]; the dynamic
ENPVwould be greater than zero; the social discount rate would be 7. 86%/The project,
therefore, will have great risk-resistance ability.
8.2 Social environment Benefit
The project will have good social beniefits as well as financial ones. The socisl
beneflits are:(I)great role in completion of the national main trunk networks and
rational layout of Gansu highway networks:(2)promotion of local economy along the
route asnd farming and animal husbandry in minority areas; (3) Although the proposed
project will bring about sove environmental problems during construction phasse, the
preventive and mitigative measures will decrease adverse dffect to a minimum. To sum
up, the project will bring about great benefits botlh financially and socially. Therefore, it
is necessary and urgent to construct L-Z and X-G Highway.
51



9 Public Participation
9.1 Public Participation of L-Z section
9. 1. 1 Opinions and Suggestions from the Local Government, Units and School
A survey was carried out in December 1996 along tlhe line from Liugouhe to
Zhonglhe in Qingbaislbi Township, Gansu Forestry Research Institute, Qingbaishi
Middle School,  Gansu Education Iilstittute,  Zlhonglhe Village and Fangjiaquang
Village whiclh will be affected by the project.
There view poinit can be generally summarized up as follows:
1. They advocate building the road as soon as possible.
2. They think that the road can improve the local traffic condition and promote the
economical development.
3. They see that the road will cause damage to the environment to which attention
should be paid and necessary measuires slhould be adopted so as to mitigate it to the
least degree possible.
4. The leaders are all more concerned about the impact situation in places that they
are in charge of Qingbaishi Township , as a basic adminstrative unit in the rural area,
is afraid of land occupation and hopes that it can be reduced as much as possible; the
forestry research institute is worried about the forest destruction and hopes that the
forest.damaged can be restored and afforestation along the road should be made when
the road construction is over; Qingbaishi Middle School and Gansu education Institute
are more concerned about the noise impact on their teaching and learning and they
claim that mitigation measures slhould be made to shield the noise and ensure their work;
Zhonghe Village demands that sufficient compensation should be made for the
* teardown of the houses.
9.1.2 Opinions and Suggestions fi-om a qtuestionnilaire lnvestigation
The region the investigation was undertaken includes 2 counties and I district
where the planned expressway will go across.
The investigated were any of those inhlabitants being or over 15 years old before
December 12, 1996, living in the above said 2 counties and I district.
In the investigation we used the metlhod of random sampling, taking the densely
populated places as the investigation centers and gradually reducing sampling ratio
outwardly from them.
52



Table. 9.1 Statistical results of the questionnaire investigation of the public participation
on the project of the expressway between I,iugouhe and Zhonghe in Lanzhou
Items of the Investigation                Answers 0            Results (%)
(1) How  do you feel about the present 1. Very satisfied.                    15
transportation situation in your place?
2. Satisfied                       29
3. Not satisfied.                  56
(2) Do you know that an expressway will be 1. Yes.                          62
built near by?
2. Not very clear.                 22
3. No, don't know.                 16
(3) How  do you think about the present 1. Very satisfactory.                 7
Oenvironment conditions in your place?
2. Satisfactory.                   20
3. Not satisfactory.               73
If not satisfactory, what do you think is the 1. Solid erosion.              10
main environmental problem in your place?
2. Vegetation destruction          21
3. Air pollutioL1.                 36
4. Noise                           21
5. Solid pollution.                17
___________________ 6. Water pollution.          47
(4)    Do you like to participate in the work  I. I am strongly willing to  74
of environment protection?                                             .
2. Not very particularly.          25
3. No, don't.                       I
(5) Don't you think the construction of an  1. Very strong influences.      15
express way will have any influences on the
local environiient?
2. There are,  but not very       59
serious.
3. No influenlces.                 26
If any, what are the chief influences?    I. Waste gases                     31
2. Noise                           37
3. Soil erosion.                   10
(6) What functions do you  think the   1. The  express  way  will          54
construction of an express way will exert on powerfully  promote  the  local
the local economical development?       economical development..
2. The forrner will proniote the   42
latter somehow.
3. No or not very significant.      4
53



Items of the Investigation                Answers 0             Results (%)
(7) Do you think that the construction of the  1. Living  standard  will be  48
express way will have any positive or negative enhanced and environment quality
influences on your living qualities?     will be concurrently inmproved.
2. Living  standard  will be      26
enlhanced,    but  environment
quality will be worsened.
3. Livinig standard will drop,     I
buit enivironmlent quality will be
improved.
4. Both living  standard  and      5
environmllent  quality  will  be
worsened.
5. No influienices                 20
(8) What is your choice between the   I  I am  in  favor of the             37
construction    of the  express  way  and construction of the express way
environment protection?                  anid  look  forward  to  local
economical development.
2. I don't like  to  see  an       I
expressway built at the' cost o
environment quality.
3. I support the construction of   62
the expressway and look forward
to an actual implementation of
environmiiienit protecthon measures.
(9) What is your attitude, in case you are 1. I refiuse to move away.        2
asked to move away forever from your present
residence because of the construction of the
expressway?
2. 1 will move away if decently paid.  53
3. 1 will move away if reasonably paid.  33
4. 1 will move away unconditionally.  12
In answer to "How do you feel about the present traffic condition?", 56% of the
people are not satisfied with the present traffic conditioln. Generally, they think that the
roads in urban district can suit far from the need of traffic growth as the economy and
trade develop continuously along the line.
Meanwhile, the inhabitants' awareness of enironmental protection has commonly
been enhanced. 74% of the people are particularly willing to participate in
environmental protection. The fact that the majority of the inhabitants are concerned
about environmental problems provides a substantial public .base for environmnent
protection. 73% are not satisfied with the present environmental condition, and the
other.27% are satisfied witli it wlho are mainly living in the rural areas. Because of the
slow industrial development, their environment is basically unpolluted. In the vicinity of
Lanzhou proper, people think that air pollution and noise pollution are the worst; and in
54



Qingbaislii area, water pollution appears to be the worst. 74% think that the
construction of the road will affect the surrouinidings in a degree, and the pollution will
be mainly noise and exhaust gas. 96% think that the construction of the road will help
the development of local economy. 99% support the conistruction, and 62% require
corresponding measures for environmental protection to be carried out when the
project starts.
The construction of the expressway causes removal and resettlement. 89% agree
to move and 86% require certain compelnsationi. Tlherefore, before the project starts,
the housing and fiuture living problems of these people slhould be well solved. A lump-
sum payment for compensation is required by them.
In our investigation, we find that most of the urban inhabitants in Lanzhou claim
the road to be built as soon as possible to reduce the traffic pressure and to improve the
environmental quality. Farmers along the line demand the expressway to be built so as
to quicken the development of the local economy.
All in all, the public attitude toward the expressway construction is positive, and
its social and economical benefits are confinned. With thie citizens' awareness of
environmental protection enhaniced, the colTesponding measures for environmental
protection are required to be carried out with the road construction simultaneously.
9.2 Public participation of X-G section
9.2.1 Opinions and Suggestions from Local Governments
Opinions about the project from the masses and local governments have been
solicited, and a series of forums have been held on selection of the alignment by
GPCPDI in Yongdeng, Tianzhul and Gulang. Opinionis and ideas from the public have
been heeded and accordingly, some revisions hiave been made. Considering their
opinions and suggestions, the EA group and GPCPDI have changed the original
alingment in the Project Feasibility Study Report, avoiding some sensitive areas in
Tianzhu County.
The second forum was held in November, 1996about El in Tianzhu and Gulang.
The attendants were experts in municipal managenment, agriculturse, forestry, water
conservancy, culture, EP and traffic; representatives of county congress and
politecalconsultative conference. Througlh full discussion, a memeoralndum was worked
out. see tables 9.2 and 9.3 for detail.
55



Table 9.2 Memorandum of Public Involvement in Tianzhu County.
place:meeting room of the Standing Committee of Peoplee's Congress of Tianzhu
County presients:Xian Higlhway University and GPCPDI
date:Nov.26, 1996
Memorandum of the forum:
1. X-GHighway is a project to benefit the people along the route by playing an
important role in improving local economy and investmenit environment;
2. Representateives were in favour of the alingmenit due to less environimental impact
and less demolition and the sclheme is feasible;
3, Traffic noise effect on three sclhools slhall be taken into fill account by taking
mitigation and controol measures;
4, Pactchy ancient tombs located at Maclhualnwani- Anmeni Wection shall be given
attention to in design.
Table 9.3Mernorandum of Public Inivolvemenit in Gulanig Coun1ty.
place:meeting-room of the Gulang County Govermen. presiders:Xian Highway
University and GPCPDI
date:Nov.27, 1996
Memorandum of the forum:
1. Thle project is of great significance in encouragemenit of local economy. Three
accesses should be provided for convenieiit traffic. Necessary accessories should be
given attention to. River course would be kept from silting up and flood bandk would
be built if the higlhway were to located on the eastern bank; 21The peoject will provide
the county witlh quick transportationi for promoting the economic growth, exporting
agriculture prodocts;
3. The project will do no obvious effct on environiment and surrowudings;
4. It will promote tourist industry without affecting cultural relics.
9.2.2 Opinions and suggestions from the Masses
Thle opinions and suggestioins friom  the masses were collected through
questionaires and interviews.1 16questionaire forms avout thie project were sent out
witlh 98came back, Thle statistical results are slhown in Table 9.4.
Table 9.4    Questionaire Fonrm about X-G Higlhway
contents                answer            nuLnber       ratio(%)
vei mluclh          55             56
l    knowledge of the project      some              43             44
no                O             n
latisfie v>ery nuch      16             1
2   opinions about local traffic   satisfied basically  36          37
not              46             47
adverse effect on         great              8              8
3         environment              slight            81             83
no idca            9              9
56



contents                 ianswer           number         ratiD%
4        opinions about        in the same village      83             85
removement & resettlement    in other villages     15             15
role in promotion of local     Seat                97            100
5           econiomy                 110                O o
_no idrea           O              O
in favout of          80             82
6        about alignment            against              I              I
______________________          no  idea            14              14
general attitude towards     early start          81             83
7             X-G                  late start           O              O
Highway constntctioni       no project            O              O
The findings of investigation and questioniaires slhow that47%of the people
interviewed were not conitent witlh the wxisting traffic conditionis; 82%of the masses
agreed to construct the lhighway and staTt as early as plssible; 85%of the villagers were
willing to resettle in the same village.
9.2.3 Opinions and Suggestions from Schools
The followinig sclhools were visited for tlleir opinions and suggestions: LSonggu
Primary School, Heisongyi Junior Highl Schlool, Primary Sclhool attached to Tianzhu
Normal School. Findings;
1. All schools were in favour ofthle project.
2. They hoped to be compensated reasonably. It was suggested being built another
Longgoubao Primary Sclhool smewliere else of the same scale. In slhort, all the local
govemments, the public and sclhools surveyed were in favour of the project. Good
suggestions about the alignment were put fonvard and on the basis of these suggestions
and EPreqquirements, the alignment was revised.
9.3 The Planned Work of The Public Participation
When EIA, EAP and ES are Completed
When the EIA, EAP and ES are completed , the documtlents will be put in thepublic
places of the GPCD, the Communications Bureau of the Chengguan District in Lanzhou City
and the Communications Bureau of Gaolan County, which will be reported in the local
newspapers with the addresses and telephone numibers open to the public for their consultation.
When the one-month consutation is over, the public opinions will be carefully handled and
passed on the communications deparitmnts for reterence when decisions are made.
57



10 Conclusions:
10.1 Conclusions of L-Z section
10.1.1 Main aspect of El
Liugouhe-Zlionglhe Highway is located in the nortlhwest part of the loess plateau.
The main aspects of the environmiiiental impact are: soil erosion,  ecological
environment,  agricultural production,   noise environment,  air environment,
water environment and social economy.
10.1.2 Ecological El
(1) The area in whichi the road crosses belongs to the region of desert and
grassland in the northwest of the loess plateau. The vegetation in this region is sparse
and poor in variety. Tllere is no rare fauna and flora here that need special protection.
The road construction will destroy the natural vegetation to some extent, but it will
be restored in 5 - 8 years by adopting a number of measures. There is little impact on
wilde animals.
(2) In the area where the road passes, the soil erosion is comparatively serious.
IlTe erosion intensity is between 3000t./km. A and 9000t./krn. A. In construction period,
the soil erosion will be aggravated to about 3 times of the present level. After the
construction is finished, the soil erosion intensity will decrease greatly due to the
implementation of the precautionary measures. It will be restrained and controlled to a
certain degree in this area.
(3) The place that the road goes througlh belongs to the farming area in suburbs.
Agriculture, forestry and animal husbandry are in good condition; and soil and plants
are basically not affected by Pb pollution. Thle road construction will occupy some
arable land, and the soil and crops will be polluted by Pb to a certain degree. But
according to the calculation, though Pb pollution will be aggravated in a degree, it
will not affect the soil and crops until the year 2020 because the soil in this area is
alkaline. But as the vehicle flow increases and the time span of operation extends,
attention should be paid to Pb pollution.
10.1.3 Noise El
In the area that the road passes, the noise background value is low and within
the limit. But in construction and operation periods the noise will increase. On several
sensitive points such as Gansu Education Institute, tlie noise will go beyond the limit,
and appropriate measures and methods should be adopted to mitigate it.
10.1.4 Air El
The results of the impact assessment of the air environment show: along the
proposed road, CO, NOx, and Pb will exceed the standard in varying degrees in
operation period. Among them, NOx will surpass the standard apparently. The late
period of operation (2020) will be the main stage that the pollution exceeds the
58



standard. In the initial period (2002) and middle period (2010) of operation,
pollutants will not go beyond the national environmental standards for air quality of
Grade It. Within 1 0On-r it will have impact on the inhabitanits ahd administrative units
on the sensitive points on both sides of the road. Outside of 200rn it will exert hardly
any influence. Within 150m of the surroundings on the leeward, the blown dust in
construction period will cause a heavy pollution.
10.1.5  Water El
In construction period, the water quality will be slightly affected of the Yellow
River and the Liugouhe River. Since the Yellow River lias a large flow, and the
Liugouhe River is not the source of drinking water for humanis or animals, the
construction will not affect the water environment significantly from an overall view.
As there is a distance between the road and the water body, the water quality will not
be affected significantly by Pb dust in operation period.
10.1.6 Social El
Liugouhe - Zlhonghe Expressway will promote the economical and social
development in Lanzlhou and Gansu province. In a degree, it will alleviate the air
pollution in Lanzhou, and other social influences are minor.
10.1.7  Other El
Thlere is no historical relics in 200m from the road, But in construction period,
the underground cultural relics should be paid much attention. In operation period,
the management of transporting hazardous materials and iiarmful waste should be
tightened up, and the traffic accidents which damage environment should be avoided.
10.1.8 Comparision of Alternative Scheme
There are two alternative scheme of Zhonighe to Donggang. N-scheme have less
environmental impact than S-scheme. N-scheme are recommend.
10.1.9 Economical El
The economic benefit from the expressway will be significant. The investment in
environmental protection is appropriately apportioned to the total investment and it will
bring in large profits.
10.1.10  Environmental Management
The environmental monitoring, controlling and management and superring of
Liugouhe -Zhonghe Expressway will be implemented from tlhe beginning of the design
stage. The work should be strictly carried out according to the corresponding
regulations.
10.1.11 Conclution of Public Participation
The public participation shows that the public positively supports the construction
of the road. Its social and economical benefits are confirmed. Meanwhile, the public
has a pressing requirement of the corresponding measures for environmental protection
and of the reasonable compensation for the impact in the process of the road
construction.
In one word, the negative impact on environment will be reduced to a minimum
and the environmental condition will be improved at the same time, if the work of
environmental protection is exactly carried out and thie investment for environmental
5)



protection is guaranteed. Hence, Liugouthe - Zhongl e Expressway is feasible from the
angle of environment.
10.2 Conclusions of X-G section
10.2.1 Ecological El
(1) The otential soil erosion during construction plhase will be great, the loss
strength of which will be 7times that at present, mostly concentrated at K2286-K2395,
K2411-413+20. It will be mitigated by carefiul design, rational use of earthwork and
other preventive works.
(2) The amount of soil loss in the first year of operation is 80% tlhatduring
construction phase. 1s3-5years following, whtein the plantationl is put back to the original
state, it will be reduced to less tlm at present.
(3) The effect on irrigation systemds during construction will be temporary and it
can be removed on completion of the road.
(4) The effect of vehicle exlhaust gases oni soil on botlh sides will be slight and
within the threshold level of lead contenit, lhaving minior impact oil yield and quality of
agriculture produce.
10.2.2 Acoustic El
(1). At present, all tee towns and villages throtiglh which the route passes enjoy
quite good sound environment.
(2). During the operation plhase, the proposed lhighway will do no obvious effect
on acoustec environment both in the nighttime and daytime. Howecver, the noise lever
of individual villages will exceed the noise standard by 0.5-6db by2022.
(3). The Primary School attaclhed to Tian zhlu Normal Sclhool snd Heisongyi High
S chool will suffer from noise somewhat, but by taking appropriate meatures, the noise
can be reduced to the standard level.
10.2.3 Air EI
(1) Existing ait quality; The air quality along the proposed road is quite good with
the concentration of CO, NOx and lead dust meeting grade2standards, TSP excdeding
the standard slightly.
(2) Air quality impact:The concentrations of both EOand NOx does not exceed
grade2of the national standards fdue to local velocity and relevant good diffusion
conditions, so having no obvious effect on air quality.
10.2.4 Water EI
(1). Exsisting water quality:The findings slhows that the qualities of water in the
rivers and reservoir aling the routes are quite good, meeting the related standards of
surface water.
(2) Water quality impact: Analysis shows thiat during constructrion, construction
activities will affect the water quality somewlhat.
10.2.5 Social El
(1) The project will do little adwerse effect on surroundings, and do good for
(o



promoting local economy and helping the poor.
(2). It will improve zonal traffic conditions.
(3). Analysis of benefit-loss slhows greater benefits than losses.
10.2.6 Conclusion of Alternative Schemes
In the light of municipal planning, opinions and suggestion from local govemments
and engineering itself, Scheme ll (town-detouring) has been suggested from  the
viewpoint of EP.
10.2.7 Public Participation
All in the masses,- schools and local governments are in favour of the project and
put forward some reasonable suggestions about the aliglment.
All in all, the X- G Highway will play an important role in developing local
economy, in improving traffic and communications and tourism. Thle new road, on the
other hand, will have some adverse effedts on environment. These impacts can be
acceptale levels. Therefore, we can arrive at the conclusion that in the light of Epthe
project is practical and feasible.
() I



Appendix 1. Distribution Chart of Enivironimzent Imnuoilm,itn  Sitc in Conistruction /
Operation period Of L-/. HighwaY
.  '~~~~~~ 5'' '. .,              -     , ,, .            *'
'  ,'...
Ci0t'
Aw ,40$
.~~~ ~                    .~ e.S:x
.~~~~~~~~M KLa0                                                               i ...
a'~ ~ a
Stkrtinu                 Qingbaisei
L .ugouhe     Shajinping         '                'e54
27M
P40Q       Dazhuznwa   Yellow River  Luotuoxianzi
Scale                 210                                   ou  i
Plane I: 200000                                              c          Gaolan
Section 1:250000 (Horizontal)
] 30000 (Vertical ) i1CO
.   _   |Milepost  -    ~-  K2210  --   --   -K        - -
*   -      Monitoring Sites of Lead Content in Soil
*    -     Monitoring cSites of Noise Environnment
OC         Monitoring Sites of Air Environment
62



Appendix 2
Aiiiiex Mig. 1.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'.t'-.   .
.~~~~~~~~~~~ *                            -  X  -_
X,mli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ .' -                                      .-v-  ,'
1k.                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~k
'lfl 'j Asf!in.z ; Jige 1f -i-stsg   LZ'1^ZZe1    1 A'iIe j't -.   1alllst lufL 6 '*-s',--
1..                              i                      .-1
- IIIopsd rund    Nolse
I'Fie M oiutor01inig Sites of Ex\;Sistig Ell viromnlent  (coutedd) -soil
(11loiig (lie  X-.1il i'x ~isting ron    11'- Cruop
~~'-  Ait- quality  -g    Water- qLuaidi



Annex 2.
At itue x I Fi g 1- 7            .Amin -                                                     .       .I
--  - -------
__ __                                        __       ___                                                           .
.\-~~~-.,. ..~~~--  ........
Thii e AfToitioring  Sites (f EfZ'ispig                    i'esed iuad                                                     Noise
_ . <jl {il,ig       llz, vi-o\'(l gtmelit!
(reculI:IIIesIdc'd)  Soil
iitotig   the                                                                        existing road       - Cw
along  die   x-C  I-Jig liway                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~ ~~~~~Aki quality  -  Watei- qualit'.



Annex 2.
Anitiex Fig i-i zoy~k-~U\-~
MII
.'                                                              .           ;   -I      ,   
CY~~_  ,                                                                      .:j . ..'. i ,. . 
/   ~~~~~~~~~~4 
r~.  --.  . ~
poi iosed rnd
i'lie Alfoliio-i( ing  Sites of E(xisting  Lnivil (ItIclie n                              3                         cli)  X -- so,l
tilolig  lthe   X   . HighlliY 'x cistig riad                                                             i    Crol)l
_  m   ,1IISir quality          -  Watcer jitlalit%



Part C: Ningxia



Ningxia Highway Project of P. R. China
Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway of National Trunk Lines
Yanchi-Xingren Highway Improvement Project
Executive Summary Report
of the Environmental Assessment
Communications Division of Ningxia Huizu
Autonomous Region
December, 19 97



Contents
1  Introduction                                                                         . 1
1.1  Legislation and Policy of Assessment ................................................... 1
1. 2 Scope and standards of Assessment.                                               2
1. 2. 1  Assessment Scope                                                          2
1. 2. 2 Assessment Standards.                                                      2
1. 3 Assessment Contents and EP Objectives.                                           2
1. 4  Assessment Phases .................................................. 3
1. 5  Techniques and Methods of Assessment .3-.--.-.. --                              3
2 Brief Introduction to the Projects .....                                                4
2. 1 Geographical Location .---                                                       4
2. 1. 1 Gu-Wang Highway ........4--------.......- 4
2.1. 2 Yan -Xing Highway ..               *         -          ...... 4
2. 2 Traffic Volume Predicted .........-...... 4
2. 3 Major Technical Standards.                                                       6
2. 4 Construction Scale and Major Work Amount.                                        6
2. 4. 1 Guw-Wang Highway.                                                          6
2. 4. 2 Yan-Xing Highway .--                                                       7
2. 5 Implementation Scheme .*--            ..--..--..-                                8
3  General Introduction to the Existing Environment in the Study Area.                    9
3. 1 Natural Environment .-9---..-                                              ...... 9
3. 1. 1 Land Features .9- -                                                        g
3.1. 2 Climatic Features.                                                         10
3.1.3 Soil .                                                                      10
3. 1. 4 Water Regime and Surface Water.                                           1 0
3. 2 Ecological Environment .11
3. 2.1   Main Features of Ecological Environment .11
3. 2.2 Vegetation .11
3. 2. 3  Soil Desertification and Drifting Dune Belts .13
3. 2. 4 Soil Erosion .13
3. 2. 5 Wild Fauna .14
3. 2. 6 Natural Reserves .14
3. 3 Social Environment .*-                                                          14
3. 3. 1 A Survey of Social Econom) .14



3. 3. 2 Major Infrastructure .16
3. 3. 3 Cultural Heritage .16
3. 3. 4  Environmentally Sensitive Spots in the study Area ...........................-16
3. 4  Current Situation of the Living Environment ....................................... 16
3. 4. 1  Environmental Quality in the Study Area of Gu-Wang Highway  ...... 16
3. 4. 2  Environmental Quality in the Study Area of Yan-Xing Highway  ...... 19
4  Social Environmental Benefits and Impact Mitigation Measures .20
4. 1 Gu-Wang Highway .*- ---                                                  20
4. 1. 1 Prediction of Economic Benefit .20
4. 1. 2  Analysis of Socio-economic Benefits .20
4. 1. 3 Regional Economic Benefits .20
4. 1. 4  Improvement of Living Environment Quality .20
4. 1. 5  Impact of Land Requisition and Mitigation Measures .21
4. 1. 6  Impact on Infrastructures and Mitigation Measures .21
4. 1. 7  Traffic Severance and Mitigation Measures .22
4. 2  Yan-Xing Highway .*--..--     ..--..--..--..--..--..               --..--22
4. 2. 1 Prediction of Economic Benefits .22
4. 2. 2  Analysis of Socio-economic Benefits .                              22
4. 2. 3 Regional Economic Benefits .22
4. 2. 4  Improvement of Living Environment Quality ................................. 22
4. 2. 5  Impact of Land Requisition and Mitigation Measures .23
4. 2. 6  Impact on Infrastructures and Mitigation Measures .23
4. 2. 7  Operation Maintenance and Safety Measures .23
5  Major Impact on Environment and Mitigation Measures .24
5. 1 Analysis of Impact on Cultural Remains (Great Wall of Ming Dynasty)
and Protection Measures .24
5. 1. 1  The Cultural Remains (Great Wall of Ming Dynasty) .                24
5. 1. 2  Scheme of the Passage through the Great Wall.                      26
5. 1. 3 Potential Impact on the Great Wall .26
5. 1. 4 Protection Measures .26
5. 2  Impact on Ecological Environment and Mitigation Measures ..................... 26
5. 2. 1  Impact on vegetation ............................................................... 26
5. 2. 2  Measures for Subgrade Protection and Prevention from
Soil Desertification ..................................27
5. 2. 3  Vegetation Protection Measures during Construction Phase ............... 28
5. 2. 4  Impact on Soil Erosion and Mitigation Measures .28
5. 2. 5  Analysis of Impact of Lead Accumulation in Soil during Operation   30
5. 3  Impact on Acoustic Environment and Mitigation Measures .30
5. 3. 1  Gu-Wang Highway .-----.......................        ........................ 30
5. 3. 2 Yan-Xing Highway .                                                  31



5. 3. 3   Impact of Noise and Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase    .   33
5. 4 Impact on Ambient Air and Mitigation Measures .                         ------------------------ 33
5. 4. 1   Operation Phase .................................................................... 33
5. 4. 2   Construction Phase ................................................                       33
5. 5   Impact on Water Environment and Mitigation Measures ........................... 33
5. 5. 1 Gu-Wang Highway during Operation Phase .-.-.*.----33
5. 5. 2   Yan-Xing Highway during Operation Phase  ...............                  .................. 34
5. 5. 3 Impact on Water Environment during Construction Phase .34
5. 6 Major Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures during
Construction Phase ................................................................ 34
5. 6. 1  Noise Impact and Mitigation Measures .--------------.-.-----------34
5. 6. 2   Impact on Ambient Air and Mitigation Measures during
Construction Phase ............................           ...................................... 34
5. 6. 3   Impact on Water Environment and Mitigation Measures during
Construction Phase .--............................................. 35
5. 6. 4   Vegetation Protection to Avoid Soil Desertification ........................... 35
5. 6. 5   Land Resources Protection .---............................................... 35
5. 6. 6 Impact on Existing Local Roads and Mitigation Measures .35
5. 6. 7 Safety .36
5. 6. 8   Protection Measures of Cultural Remains
(Great Wall of Ming Dynasty) ................................................... 36
5. 6. 9   Impact Analysis of Material Yards ............................................. 36
5. 7 Major Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures
during Ope:ration Phase as Summary ................................................... 36
5. 7. 1   Prevention Measures of Environmental Impact .............................. 36
5. 7. 2 Management Measures of Noise Control                                  -----.-----------...  37
5. 7. 3   Transportation Management .              -      ................................ 37
6   Public Involvement and Investigation Summary ............................................. 38
6. 1   Public Involvement and Investigation and Statistics *.-------------------------------  38
6. 1. 1   Way of Investigation and People Investigated ................................. 38
6. 1. 2 Investigation Statistics and Analysis .38
6. 2   Major Issues and Settlement ............................................................ 38
7   Environmental Protection Program  and Environmental Monitoring Program                            ...... 40
7. 1 EP Program .                  -         -         .................................. 40
7. 1. 1 Preliminary Stage ..........................                                                40
7. 1. 2 EP Program of Construction Stage .                                                          41
7. 1. 3   EP Program  of Operation Stage  ................................................  42
7. 2   Environment Monitoring Plan and Monitoring Instruments ..................... 42
7. 2. 1   Environment Monitoring Plan during Construction Stage .................. 42
7. 2. 2   Environment Monitoring Plan during Operation Stage  ..................... 43



7. 2. 3  Environmental Monitoring Instrument .- -----                    ... 43
8  Environmental Institutions and Expenses Estimate .--.         - -.. 44
8. 1  Environmental Institutions and Responsibilities .-                      44
8. 1. 1  Construction Phase ...                                             44
8. 1. 2 Operation Phase .                                                   44
8. 2  EP Personnel Training Program  .......................... 45
8. 3  Cost Estimate for EP ..................................................................... 46
9  Resettlement Action Plan .------................................................... 47
9. 1  Land Requisition and Amount of Resettlement ..................... 47
9.1.1  A Survey .----. .................................................. 47
9. 1. 2  Amount of Land Requisitioned and Housing Demolished .47
9. 2  Resettlement Principles and Compensation Standards .49
9. 2. 1  Resettlement Principle  ....................... 49
9. 2. 2 Way of Compensation .                                               49
9. 2. 3  Compensation Standards for Land Requisitioned .49
9. 2. 4  Compensation Standards for Demolition .--. 50
9. 3  Institutions of Land Requisition and Housing Demolition .50
9. 4  Cost of Land Requisition and Resettlement and Schedule .51
9. 4. 1 Cost Estimated .51
9. 4. 2  Schedule of Land Requisition and Resettlement .51
Appendix and Attached Figure
Appendix 1 Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia
Highway-Projects .*-                                             52
Appendix 2  Yanchi County Government (Approval) Document No. 17 (1997)        57
Attached Fig. 1  Route Trend and Environmental Sensitive Spots Distribution
and Monitoring Spot Locations along Gu-Wang Highway .60
Attached Fig. 2  Sensitive Spots Distribution and Monitoring Spot Locations
along Yan-Xing Highway .61
Attached Fig. 3  Distribution of Materials along Gu-Wang Highway .65
Attached Fig. 4  Distribution of Materials along Yan-Xing Highway .66



1 Introduction
The Ningxia highway projects applying for the WB loan is part of the highway projects
of Ningxiaa, Inner Mongolia and Gansu. Ningxia WB loan application projects include Guyaozi
Wangquanliang Section (Highway) and improvements to Yanchi - Xingren Highway of
Qingdao-Taiyuan-Yinchuan National Highways (upgraded to class I highway) and rural
"poor-assistance roads" which total up to 253km of 13 roads distributed in 5 poor undeveleped
counties, namely Haiyuan, Xiji, Pengyang. Tongxin and Yanchi.
The Executive Summary Report is the summary of EIA of Guyanzi-Wangquanliang
Section (Highway) and Yanchi-Renxing Highway. The Environmental Action Plan is also
included in the summary. The EIA of 'the poor-assistance roads" and their action plans are
found in other reports.
1. 1 Legislation and Policy of Assessment
1. The review by the State Environmental Protection Bureau regarding the Qutline of
EIA of Guyaozi - Wangquanliang Section and Yanchi - Xingren. Highway Improvements,
062, (1997), 7 March, 1997.
2. The review by the Environmental Protection Bureau of Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region regarding the ETA standards for Ningxia highway projects applying for WB loans, 029
(1997), 15 March, 1997.
3. The Qutlines of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Section and Yanchi-Xingren Highway
improvements of Qingdao - Taiyuan - Yinchuan Highway as a national trunk line,
November, 1996.
4. "The Reply on the Proposal of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Section from the Mimistry of
Communications", No 861, [1994], September, 1994.
5. "The Letter on the Trust Deed of EIA of Guyaozi - Wangquangliang Section and
Yanchi - Xingren Highway from- the Communications Division of Ningxia", No. 079,
(1996), July, 1996.
6. 'The Viability Study Reports of Guyaozi-Wangquanling Section and Yanchi-
Xingren Highway" by China Highway Project Consultancy and Supervision Co. Ltd,
January, 1997.
7. "Chinese Forest Protection Act", December, 1989.
8. 'Administration Policies of Environmental Protection of Construction Projects" by the
State Environmental Protection Bureau, No. 003, 1986.
9. "Administration Policies of Environmental Protection of Communications Construction
Projects" by the MOC, No. 17.
10. 'On Strenshening Maragement of EIA of Construction Projects Using Loans from
Foreign Finance Organigations" by the State Environmental Protection Bureau and three



other organigations, No, 324, [1993].
11. "Soil Conservation Act of P.R. China", June 29, 1991.
12. "Pasture Act of P. R. China", 1985.
13. "Cultural Relics Protection Act of P. R. China", Nov. , 1982
14. 'Assessment Specitications for EIA of Highway Construction Projects", (JTJ 005-
96) (trial), Jan., 1996.
15. Other regulations, laws and standards for environmental protection, management
and monitoing.
1. 2 Scope and Standards of Assessment
1. 2. 1 Assessment Scope
On the basis of the review on the Outline of ETA, the scope of both highways is shown in
Table 1-1.
Table 1-1                     Assessment Scope
Contents             Gu-Wang Highway                   Yan-Xing Highway
social environment   200m on both sides and sensitive areas 200m on both sides and sensitive areas
ecological environment      500m on both sides               200m on both sides
acoustic environment       200m on both sides                100m on both sides
ambient air            200m on both sides                100m on both sides
1. 2. 2 Assessment Standards
On the basis of the review from the Environmental Protection Bureau of Ningxia, they
are shown in Table 1-2
Table 1-2             Assessment Standards and Amount
contents                    standards                              remarks
(Quality Standards for Soil Environ-ment)
lead in soil           GB15618-1995,Grade I
acoustic  V(Noise Standards for Urban Areas) GB 3096-93.          night Leq=5odB
encionmeti  Grade I schools &- hospitals;                 Gaenigdatim Leq=7 OdB
environment Grade TV villages, towns and residential areas          night Leq=55dB
water    (Quality Standards for Surface Water Environment)    PH, COD.,B1Ds,NH,-N
environment              GB3838-88,Grade I                 (for Yan-Xlng Highway only)
Notet Construction noise shall conform to the (Limit Levels for Construction Site Boundaries)(GB 12523-90)
1. 3 Assessment Contents and EP Objectives
Assessment contents, key points and EP objectives are listed in Table 1-3 on the basis
of the following elements: project engineering, environmental features, identification and
selection of environmental impact, and the review of the outlines of ETA.
* 2 *



Table 1-3             Assessment Contents and EP Objectives
contents                Gu-Wang Section                     Yan-Xing Highway
social environment        V   key-point assessment             V   key-point assessment
ecological environment      v   key-point assessment             v   key-point assesment
acoustic noise                    V/  key-point assesment
ambient air                      Vt                                   V
water environment                    V                                    V
1. ecology: vegetation, prevention
from desertification              1. ecology:  vegetation,  preveation
objectivs .2. acoustic environment at sensitive       from desertification
objectives         spots                             2. acoustic environment at sensitive
3. cultural relics (Great Wall of Ming  spots
Dynasty)
Note: i>/ means assessment contents
1. 4 Assessment Phases
According to the predicted traffic volume and work progress, the phases are scheduled in
Table 1-4.
Table 1-4
operation phase
projects         construction phase
short-term       med-term          long-term
Gu-Wang H.    July, 1998-July, 2001            2003             2010              2020
Yan-Xing H.    July, 1998-July, 2002           2002             2010              2020
1. 5 Techniques and Methods of Assessment
Assessment will be carried out according to (the Specifications for EIA of Highway
Construction ) (JTJ 005-96) by the MOC (trial) , See Table 1-5 for details.
Table 1-5               Assessment Techniques and Methods
assessment of
contents   existing situation                    El prediction assessment
social   investigation    On the basis of socio-economic benefits, positive and negative effect on
social      investigatin . environment, and with the social environment taken into account the
environment      analysis      prediction analysis will be conducted.
ecolgical    investigation    (DModel prediction assessment will be used for soil erosion
envirne    an monigatoin    ()Both investigation and prediction calculation will be used for natural
environment  and m.onitoring     ecosystem.
aconstic    investigation
envionmti   an mnigatoin                 Model prediction assessment will be used.
environment  and monitoring
ambiet air investigation
ambient air  and monitoring                Model prediction assessment will be used.
water    investigation and                Investigation analysis will be conducted
environment   data collection                  depending on engineering situation
.3.



2 Brief Introduction to the Projects
The target of the ninth 5-year plan of Ningxia highways is to speed up both the national
and provincial artery highway construction including improvements to county and township
roads to form  a complete 3 - longitadinal and 5-cross highway network. Guyaozi
Wangquanling Highway (Gu-Wang Highway) and Yanchi-Xingren Highway (Yan-Xing
Highway) is one of the key construction projects of the ninth 5-year plan of Ningxia, and it
has substantial significance in promoting economy and 'poor-assistance project" of Ningxia
Region.
2. 1 Geographical Location
2. 1. 1 Gu- Wang Highway
The Gu -Wang Highway is located in the central part of Ningxia by the north. It
originates from Guyaozi of Lingwu City and terminates at Wangquanling at the borber of
Ningxia and Shaanxi with a total length of 93. 908km. This road connects with Yinchuan in
the west, wvith Dingbian of Shaanxi in the east, and with Ertuokeqian Prefecture of Inner
Mongolia in the north. See Fig. 2-1 for detail.
2.1. 2 Yan -Xing Highway
The Yan-Xing Highway is located in the back-land of Ningxia, passing through the
widest part of Ningxia from east to west; see Fig. 2 - 1. The start point is at the north-
eastern corner of the region, and the destination is at Haojiaji on the border of Ningxia and
Gansu, with a total length of 250. 78km.
2. 2 Traffic Volume Predicted
According to the Viability Study Report, the traffic volume of both highways is shown in
Tables 2-1 and 2-2 respectively.
Table 2-1  Traffic Volume Predicted of Gu-Wang Highway (medium-sized vehicles) unit:v/d
sections             stations          2000         2010         2020
Guyaozi-Gaoshawo   K47+247-K89+500          2938         6535         10316
Gaoshawo-Yanchi   K89+500-K130+500         2957         6591         10506
Yanchi-Wangquanliang K130+500-K140+670         0          4523          7432
Table 2-2  Traffic Volume Predicted of Yan-Xing Highway (medium-sized vehicles) unit: v/d
sections             stations           2000         2010         2020
Yanchi-Fengjigou    KO+000-K54+400          930          2580          5110
Fengjigou-Huianbao    K54+400-K86+000        750          2010          4020
Huianbao-Taoshankou   K86+000-K192+300        1015         2540          5100
aoshankou-Xingren Town K192+300-K246+700       1292         3618         5181
Xingren Town-Haojiaji K246+700-K253+890       1315         3567          6433
.4



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
)  NIngxi~~~~~~~~f7BeJ21Siumng20
Pt r ,,i m> n
\ pcclalpurpo I tsehighway
. /X - w />~~~~~~~~~~~~ propa5cd GU-W.,,
..      l't* . .         i                 .,            . 1.1  .,f, 3     Fi
~~~~~n ~ ~     wn
Fig1;. 2- <1  The, Geograpi  Location of}1 th  Highwa
.X.
S        't t  !1'- tZA.n wi  Zhongni             *    4              _ 
Fig. 2-1   The Geographic Locishatino  h    iha



2. 3 Major Technical Standards
Gu-Wang Highway is proposed to be contructed according to the stardards for class I
auto-only highways in the plane light rolling areas; for Yan-Xing Highway    stardards for
ordinary class I highways, see Table 2-3 for detail.
Table 2-3                   Major Techical Indexes
technical indexes
names           unit
Gu-Wang H.                   Yan-Xing H.
class of road           class I , plane light rolling areas  ordinary class I
design speed      km/h               100                           80
width of subgrade    m              26(4-lane)                      12. 0
width of carriageway   m    2X7. 5(by stage), first stage-2 lanes     9. 0
width of divider     m                 3
min radius of horizontal curve   m        700                           400
clear width of bridge surfaee-9,
stop visual distance  m                 160               that for small bridges is same
as for subgrade
max. longditudinal grade   %               4                             5
type of pavement                bituminous concrete              bituminous
design load for             auto-super 20, trailer-120     auto-20. trailer-100
bridges and culverts          a
Note:The standards for Yan-Xing Highway apply for Yan-Hui Highway.
2. 4 Construction Scale and Major Work Amount
2. 4. 1  Gu-Wang Highway
The total mnileage of Gu-Wang Highway is 93. 908km with an estimated cost of 879,
892,900 RMB yuan. The land to be vequisitioned is 7241. 49mu. The first stage construction
includes:
1.Guyaozi-Yanchi Section K47+247. 29-K130+500 (with a disconnection of 15.
lrm). Subgrage. bridges and passages with total width will be completed at one time; the
surface paving will be completed in the following way: the outer lane of both up and down
lanes will be paved first (with hard shoulders included) with a width of 7m. The middle part
will be left for green belts for the time being. The rest of the work will be for the next stage.
2. Yanchi-Wangquanling Section (K130+500-K140+670,with a length of 10.
170km). Class I , half-width subgrade (14m) will be constructed for the first stage. Major
work amount for Gu-Wang is shown in Table 2-4.



Table 2-4       Estimated Work Amount for Gu-Wang Highway
recommended (north)
order           iterns             unit          alignment                remarks
1            mileage              km             93.908
2      earth work of subgrade     km'           5831. 02
3      drainage & protection      m3            64726. 31
4       treatment of unusual      km              2.65
subgrade (desertification)
5     pavement (bituminous)       km'           1216.14
6             culvert                             128
7          small bridge         m/place          19. 4/1
8       medium-sized bridge     m/place         212. 56/4
9           large bridge        m/place          206/1              Huiminxiangguo
10          interchange           place             3           Guyaozi, Gaoshawo, Yanchi
11        grade seperation        place             2
12            passage             place            73           including grazing passages
13            flyover             place            10
14           land used            mu             7241.49
15      administrative agency     place             2               Gaoshawo, Yanchi
16          toll station          place             4           Guyaozi ,Gaoshawo ,Yanchi
17         service centre         place             2                Guyaozi, Yanchi
18            funding          (10,000 yuan)    87989.29
2. 4. 2 Yan-Xing Highway
The total mileage of Yan-Xing Highway is 250. 78km with an estimated cost of 472,
038,600 yuan. The land used is 3335. 06mu. The major construction work is as follows.
1. Yanchi -Huianbao Section (KO+ 000 -OOK89 + 244 with 3. 109km of disconnection
included) is 86. 14km long. It is a project of improvements to the existing highway (Yanchi
-Maerzhuang KO+000-K63+ 700) and new construction (Maerzhuang-Huianbao K63
+700-K89+244).
2. Huianbao-Taoshankou Section (K89+244-K197+500), with a length of 108.
25km is of a paving project.
3. Taoshankou'-Haojiaji (destination) (K197+500-K253+ 890) with a length of 56.
39km is of recapping project by using the existing national highway 109.
See Table 2-5 for the major work amount of Yan-Xing Highway.
.7.-



Table 2-5       Estimnated Work Amount for Yan'-Xing Highway
order        items            unit    amount                      remarks
1          mileage          km       250. 78
2    subgrade earthwork   lOOOm'   2081. 98
3   mortar schist side ditch    m3    23520
4         protection         m3     19507. 29
5         pavement           m1      2979622               bituminous concrete
186 of new construction, with 172 for
6          culvert          place      469              Yan-Hui section included
7       small bridge      m/place  473. 63/23  with one crossing over Yellow River Irrigation
Canal, new construction for Yan-Hui Section
. medium bridge  m/place   663/11   two, one for Yan-Hui section, with the other
8      medium bridge      rn/place    663/11        for Huitao section, new construction
9       level crossing      place       4
10     grade separation     place       2          flies over G211 road, new construction
11    land requisitioned     mu      3335. 06               Yan-Hui Section
12      cost estimated    10,000 yuan ab. 47203. 86
2. 5   Inplementation Scheme
For detailed implementation scheme for the project, see Table 2-6.
Table 2-6                     Implementation Scheme
scheme              Gu-Wang Highway                         Yan-Xing Highway
construction  comences in July, 1998, completed in July,  commences in July, 1998, completed in
schedule   2001, with 3 year construction duration  duration
1. total cost: 879,892,900 yuan         1. total cost 472,038,600 yuan
2.US S 40,000,000 (332,000,000 yuan)  2.US S 10,000,000 (83,000,000 yuan)
funding      from WB loan                            from WB loan
source    3. 366,440,000 yuan of allowance from the  3. 223,812,800 yuan of allowance for the
source   MOC.                                    MOC
4. the remaining  part raised  by  the  4. the  remaining  part raised  by  the
autonomons region itself                autonomas region itself
*8-



3 General Introduction to the Existing
Environment in the Study Area
3. 1 Natural Environment
Geographycally, Ningxia Region is located in the middle latitute inland area of the north
semisphere, being far from the sea. It rains scarecdy thanks to the weak S-E monsoon.
Consequenty, this region suffers drought and severe natural eonditions.
3. 1. 1 Land Features
The land in Ningxia is divided into 6 topographical units: Helan mountainous lands,
Yinchuan  plain, Lingyan  Terrace, Ningzhong  mountainous lands and  plains among
mountains, Ningnan loess hills and Liupan mountainous lands.
The alignment of Gu - Wang Highway goes in the Lingyan Terrace (Lingwu and
Yanchi) of the Erdos gentle light rolling areas. while Yan-Xing Highway goes in both the
Lingyan Terrace and Ningzhong mountainous lands and plains among mountains. See Fig. 3
-1 for detail.
4b * Lw  the propoeat Gu-Wg h4Lhway
nhe Yellow Rvec     oW/
't-*^ul!      /          ill1    Landforms Distribution
the poepd Yan-XIn bigh  .                                        Hl n' M.ch rion.
YR)
Zhoagwel -D \& m                                         Ybdn plains
~~~  $        W  ~~~~~~~~ ~Ln-Yen beach
^> r ~N Thoaxngntn t w
Momitahom regiont and
&~~~'~~;         tct"a      I *ramutlnoo pbain bm the
~>9)  '-UttE-\TonO n   n ZiIIIl[                      mIddl  W rt of the NInea
\ 'V                              ]3             Southr.n hUli tn NMngd.
*    X     I    .   Wt )           [      I       Lnan    btlr Moauntn on
.!%GayanLatdfnom boundary
Fig. 3-1 Topography in Ningxia
.9.



1. Lingyan Terrace
Lingyan terrace is characterised by undulated iands with flats or wide valleys. There are
plenty of sand dunes and salt lakes. Average elevation is 1300-1500m.
2. Ningzhong mountainous lands and flats amoung mountains
The route goes from northeast to southwest passing throuth Hongsibao plain, Luoshan &
Yantongshan mountainous lands, Qingshuihe Plain, Xiangshan mountainous lands and
finally, Xingren plain. The mean altitude of these areas is 1400 - 2300m. The average
altitute of some flats among the mountains is 1300-1800m.
3. 1. 2 Climatic Features
Ningxia Region lies in the inland, being far from seas, and on the eastern edge of the
monsoon belt of China, forming a typical continental climate. The climatic features are: long
and cold winter, short hot summer, short warm spring and fall comes early; it is dry and
rains seldom, with plenty of sunshine, great evaporation and strong winds with sand, causing
disasters frequently. The major natural disasters are: drought, frost injury, hails,
rainstorms, strong winds and xerothrmic winds, with drought and sand - blowing heading
the list.
In the middle area in Ningxia, the annual mean temperature is 8  9 C. The average
annual precipitation is 212 - 300mm concentrated in July, August and September. The
annual average evaporation is 2000-2100mm, 7-9 times of rainfull. The annual average
wind velocity is 2. 0-3. Om/s. There are strong winds and sandstorms in winter and spring.
3.1.3  Soil
In the part where there the road lies in, sierozem, desert, grey soil can be found mostly
in some terraces and highlands or diluvial plains. Linyan Terrace is characterized by wind-
blown sandy soil. Obviously, the soil here is loose and not fertile, with only 1% of organic
matter.
3. 1. 4 Water Regime and Surface Water
Lingyan area is located in the dividing belt of Yellow River System and inland water
system with no passing surface runoff or ground water for water supply. Gu - Wang
Highway passes over only two seasonal gullies namely Shijingzi and Huimingxiang Water
sources are very scarce here.
10-



The branches of the Yellow River through which the route passes are Kushui River and
Qingshui River ( first level branches ). The Qingshui River originates from Liupan
Mountains, then it goes northward and runs into the Yellow River via Ningnan Loess
Plateau, Ningzhong mountainous lands and plains amoung mountains. The total length of the
river is 320. 2km with sand content of 229kg/m3. The water in it can not be used as drinking
water, or as irrigation water because of high mineralization of 4. 9g/L. While the Kushui
River, originating from the hilly lands in Huan County with a lotal length of 223. 8km, and
sand content of 352kg/m3, minearalization of 4. 5g/L. Accordingly, it can not be used as
drinking water or for irrigation.
There are no drinking water sources and aquatic farming water bodies along the projected
route.
3. 2 Ecological Environment
3. 2. 1 Main Features of Ecological Environment
For the ecological division in Ningxia, refer to Fig. 3-2. The road-located area belongs
to Xiangshan desert steppe in Yanchi and Tongxin district, an ecological division of desert
steppe. The pastures in this area have been deteriorated and desertificated. There are drifting
sand dunes and salt lakes in the Lingyan Terrace area. Generally speaking, this area is
dominated by disastrous climate leading to a very weak ecological environment.
3. 2. 2 Vegetation
1. Types of vegetation
The type of vegetation along the two roads is of "Ningzhong and Ningbei desert steppe
"plot and"dry steppe transition plot'. The vegetation here belong to steppe vegetation.
Steppe vegetation is the leading part in this region accounting for 79. 5 % of natural vegetation
with an area of 39. 003 million mu including 38. 145 million mu of desert steppe and arid
steppe, making up 97. 8% of the whole steppe, being the representive one of the vegetation in
Ningxia.
2. Forestry
According to the forestry planning. the l1ingyuan Terrace is in the scope of the 'Maoysu
checking the wind and fixing the shifting dune belt", while Ningzhong area is in the Tongxin
and Xiangshan hilly windreak forest belt.
(1)Maoysu-wind-checking-sand-fixing tree belt
11 -1



Legends
maor rlot lOU eruorn areas
IIZ Z  ,          a'1    rnor desertLfkated areas                       13|
major salLnizated areas                         n    )
major environmentally polluted areas _;5/
evologkally     envronment        zone                              2
boemdary
eoologkilly environment boundary         |    /"t HLodinY
_  _   _       ecologlcally environment subboumndry                                      T   t/p;t        -      ./
Arid At". In Eed-  Pin wa                                                                                   S-ir4 Ar.* ot
Mi 4 N.C. Ptlins                                                                                        Lose  Pt t ua
1 For-t.  brt`bmmds and g.Utaed4 In Heden               N2Z' .                                              Ari4 Furm  and Grast.on   Ag-8 in
I iForas iza th. swhmn Helead idatUine             1- WI Arid tat.  areas  in srothw.  -rid
I 18rashweds and jpraul.nds In the northern           >                                                      paseisodl in Y%nToag
Ha"n Moeunes                                                                                          IVl Arid  fatr  ae_s in HaSyua Arid
I tDwried 4 u aro4 Sblanjing                                                                                 Otalu//ds
I Irrigated Firae4ds hi Nhepta PlaLne                                                                   IV    Arid ters, bkribwna  and mt1 smds
It  irrigated - nM Irrlgnd rotttion     ofnto  in  eor n4 s u
ent atno2/                                                                               /            N 4 Aid tam and greadeda to Xa3ifg
I girtripgd reas ot north et Yinteon n                                                                  V  Feess   d  gsacinds tin  LiUng
I rDwtW rgrassland betere Hoig ted Atoir<//7tZL;                                                             i    imbb
I 4Aikenaete -ges to X1m t n'                                                                           VI Forses antd aredands In tbs soutbern
I SFeao   in Yheben City                                                       j.i                       +g rMvri1
S Darted Grasslands Ie Yan - TOg- Xtng                                                i                 V2 Frsb uan  yasulands in tb  owtrhan
Ueent bu                                          <   _|                       t b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lap nt Macktel
*   Drtttie rted gysiabdr in LeU-Yen Bach                                                                V 3 Grunda      in imn H tnalahsM
I z)aeste me"  th semma pinea em TeaQl. Sueh
Is3 De.dU..t.d P6asslad' 'a Tofg-Xhnpballin
SiFnr", tro         d greade L                                                     Fig. 3-2  Ecological
as pnn ar ea-  soh   p I-                                                  Environment in Ningxia Region
iasneea, at Wsl-Nhng
12.



This belt includes sandy lands in Taole county, Yanchi county and Lingwu county with
an area of 14. 078 million mu. It is one of the key belts of the "3 - north - forest - belt"
scheme which started in 1978 and completed in 2050. and the forest coverage rate comes to
2. 47%  compared with that of 1. 37%  originally. Take Yanchi county as an example, the
forest coverage rate now is 8. 85 % because of artificial and aerial afforestation. By 2020, the
coverage rate shall be up to 20%. The best afforestation tree species having better economic
benefits are bushes like urssianolive, caragana microphylla, korshinsk peashrub, salix
mongolica, almond willow, sea-buckthorn, rose willow, and nitraria etc.
(2)Tongxin and Xiangshan protection tree belt in hilly lands
This belt includes Tongxin County, mountainous areas in Zhongning and Zhongwei and
the northern part of Haiyuan County. The total area of the belt covers 18. 134 million mu.
The natural conditions are featured by dryness and scareness of rain. Planting trees,
therefore, is very difficult, which results in lower forest coverage rate (1. 5%), being the
least in the Region. However, according to the plan, it must reach 21% by 2020. It is
required that prevention shelter belt be given priority, but cash trees are also planted, such as
fruit frees, Chines matrimony-vine and ill trees.
3. Pastures
Ningxia has a large area of grasslands making up 58. 2% of the total area of which 39.
003 million mu can be used. The average per capita is 10. 8mu campared with 3. 85mu of the
national level, with Yanchi County heading the list followed by Tongxin county, Zhongwei,
Haiyuan, Lingwu and Kuguan: The grasslands in the study area fall into dry steppe or desert
steppe category. The mean coverage rate of the pasture is 20-50%. 52. 8kg of fresh grass
can be used per mu. The major plants growing in these grasslands are stipa breviflora,
convolvulus tragacanthoides, oxytropis aciphylla, caragana tibetica, prairia sagework, aiania
chillodes, loosestrife, reaumuria soongorica, solsola arbuscula, cynanchum komarovii,
harmel, allium polyrrhizum, lespedeaz potaninii, harmel, allium polyrrhizum, lespedeza
potanii, liquorice, sophora alopecuroide, thermopsis lanceo lata and flax etc. .
3. 2. 3 Soil Desertification and Drifting Dune Belts
Ligyuan Terrace is one of major desertificated areas in Ningxia (see Fig. 3-2). There
are two shifting dune belts with a thickness varying from several to 20 meters. The length of
the drifting dune belt in the northern part of Lingyan through which Gu-Wang Highway
passes is about 50km. The width is 5-lOkm. The length of the Baha drifting dune belt in
the middle part of Lingyan through which Yan-Xing Highway passes is about 60km. Its
width is 5-15 km. The shifting belts are the sources of sand causing serions damage to the
regional traffic, husbandary, farming and production. It is also one of the most major factors
of soil desertification.
3. 2. 4 Soil Erosion
The report of (Planning of soil and water conservation in Ningxia Autonomous Region)
shows that the study area is of arid steppe category, the soil erosion modulus being 200-
2000t/km' * yr. belonging to light water erosion and moderate wind erosion category.
* 13 -



3. 2. 5 Wild Fauna
Based on the investigation in the study area reptiles are: sand lizard, wall gecko and
snakes etc. Mammals are: field voles, ground squirrels, hares and foxes. Birds are: sand
pheasants, swallows, tits etc.
No rare wild animals are found here.
3. 2. 6 Natural Reserves
There are no natural or wild animal reserves since it is a very dry area with poor
ecological environment.
3. 3 Social Environment
3. 3. 1 A Survey of Social Economy
The directly affected areas by Gu-Wang Highway are Lingwu City and Yanchi County.
While those by Yan - Xing Highway are Yanchi County, Tongxin County and Haiyuan
County. See Fig. 3-3  for detail based on the data of 94- 96, the survey of the regional
economy is shown in Tables 3-1  and 3-2. It can be seen that agriculture is the most leading
industry in those areas. The local economy, limited by various factors, is very backward.
The farmers and residents are living a hard life.
Table 3-1  A Survey of Socio-eccnomy in Gu-Wang Highway Affected Area
population                  land           livestock
tatic of                  .amual mean
place                         t o   atio of   the    i   for farmors dr ught    fazmers(yuan/    rmark
hod    tion     c         ato   (mu)       (mu/   animals          person)
cpopulto   of Hui           persou)
______________            _____    ~~~~~~~~Minority    I __I
Ciyaopu Township    1113   21230   5230         8     31830      6.1    21333  648        568. 0    Lingwu city
Gaoshawo Township   2609   8964    8375          9     44610      5.3    32830  1931      574.0       Yanchi
Chengjiao Township   2630   12517   12278    114    43385         3.5    24407 2494       687.4       County
Table 3-2 A Survey of Socio-economy in Yan-Xing Highway Affected Area
population                   land          livestock    annual
taiooftaioof the        farmland    -      -      mean
towrns or                        tioo    ai*income of
place         townshins         house- popula- agricultural popuiation farm-    for    draught       farmers
hold   tion   population   of Hui   land   famuors  animals sheep   (yuan/
Minority  (mu)    mnupen
( % )          (person) I             I
Chengjia Township     2630   12517    98. 0        0. 90   43385    3. 50    2494 24407    687
Wangleing Township   2348   11494    97. 4          0. 12    70605    6. 39    2409 29063    412
Yanchi   Fengjigou Township    1209   6369        85. 9      26. 0   33390    6. 10    1264 14622    535
county
Maerzhuang Township   1023   4849        97.0         0     38145    8.03      265  34432    522
Huianbao Town        2325   9261      86. 0      13. 0   69690    8. 74    1710 41779    650
Weizhou Town         5445   22196    90. 0       76. 0   12327C   6.14    3968  66050    494
Shitangou Township    1075   5220        100       99. 7   64290   12.32    1660 28000    494
Tongxi        Hexi Town           4703   21617    94.0        93.0    44295    2.19    3692  12307    871
County ____
Hanjiaoshui Township   1980   8934       94. 0      87. 0   63300    7. 58    3134  16000    395
Xialiushui Township    2196   10995    97. 0       99. 8   60240    5.67    2668 20320    389
HCioun       Xingren Town        3301   20132    90. 0        2. 2    87695    4. 84                    600
* 14*



"a-.
Ningxia Bii1-.~                                     T    Jr
s               I
Yinchuan  (I     YnG
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h o. g C    rsPlo.'pcd Gu-%V.,n
l'  '    g    'M, iir' ,  -I
F       3-3   The Highwayswg   Project Zmacsn         Areag
.*;-r an                                 J       G1X 0 ;y \t \  \
a~~Fgr 3-  s0 sThe* Higwa  P  sroect nnmpaczXr:_Ux tin  Area t
15-



3. 3. 2 Major Infrastructure
1. Highway. Traffic        r
In the study area there are national trunk lines: 109, 211 and 307; provincial lines: Yin
-Ping Highway, Zhong-Jing Highway, local county roads: Yan  Hui Road, Ma-Hui
Road and Hui - Hing Road. However, there is not a west-east bound highway passing
through the widest part in the central Ningxia. It is sustantially important to build Gu-
Wang class one highway and Yan-Xing highway due to the fact that the low class and poor
capacity of the existing traffic has badly held up the economic growth in this area. Fig. 3-4
show the configurations of Ningxia highway planning.
2. Irrigation Works
In the study area there are: Daliushu Yellow River Water Lift Irrigation Canal, Guhai
Yellow River Water Lift Irrigation Canal, Yanhuanding Canal and Hongsibao Canal to be
developed for the poor-assistance project. See Fig. 3-5. All these canals are benefit-bringing
projects for the local people.
3. 3. 3 Cultural Heritage
1. Gu-Wang Highway
The projected Gu-Wang Highway will pass through the remains of the Great Wall of
Ming Dynasty at Chengjiao Township of Yanchi County (K126+120). For the relationship
of the WaLl and the highway, see Fig. 5-1. The impact of the highway on the Wall has been
analysed. Protection measures towards it have been or will be taken. See 5. 1 for detail.
2. Yan-Xing Highway
No cultural relics have been found worthy of protection in the study area.
3. 3. 4 Environmentally Sensitive Spots in the Study Area
See Table 3-3 for the number of the sensitive spots. As for their names and locations,
refer to EIA and Attached Fig. 1 and 2.
Table 3-3             Environmentally Sensitive Spots
residential areas        schools               hospitals
number household population number teacher students number teacher  bed
Gu-Wang        6     1684   6387                                l
hig4h cod 3  175    1164
Yan-Xing      24    4311   21401                            1 1    6       3
__ _ __ _ __   _ __   __ _ ._ _   prDim boo[ 6  174  2825  l__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
3. 4 Current Situation of the Living Environment
3. 4. 1 Environmental Quality in the Study Area of Gu-Wang Highway
1. Acoustic environment quality
(1) 20m begond National Highway 307, the noise level Leq=5. 87dB at daytime, Leq=
50. 4dB at night which is in conformation with Grade I standards. At a small town
(Guyaozi), close to Highway 307, Leq =58. 2dB at daytime, Leq  48. 5dB, which is in
conformation with Grade I standards.
* 16 -



Legends                  Innovatbn of PingJw-Ruql R&D Bran
iror_|Cootroo tbe second line ot
~~~ ~~single track lIEnt  rala          nnovuiot  o            .BSIzMh  n          dii LJ   1u3        n-     Zi
multiple  track   ll neI  tel ric   Pal    yi  X       S  M   ,,- ,
=D- e~~~~~~lectric railway f; iJ,
~ =-   =       ~ planned railway
trunk highway network
Highways to Be Buuit
Ding the 9th 5-year plan
plannedt highwaly                    1    VgHlnj  
2  ^ _                |    [/7i ;fSsinchsn/;  ,               ~~~~~~~~94km Of Guyaozi-Wangquinliang
_iiiIn    a    eClasOneHlghway
j83 kMn YaiCu-Yinin-YeshereCeIgaOneHghway                                  (e//
(  /Yrsieg  ;/'                              'i
92kmD of W        3g-Z4ongnbag  Te Tn                  d N           r in N
T7       1r                                  a clan
1 ' :,.EA s mX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lingwu-W=hgHgwy
\   2           <\;,-- t  (  | ~~~125= of T ohasn-Hunb ians elw    tb
:   ' 55       P_  oxt n  38im d Xbanihron~~-Cbelu"0cst
twtzostsOoa(~~~Pont
lFig. 3-4 The Trunk Road Network in Ningxia Regionl
.17~.    



.- -     .~.
, 
LEGENG                          (                     /
^ jp;>l>,,^gX, ,,*f,c/  GX   Completed key
'.Z<      / /,r&Xffi /water contra] works
plannedi key
\ dSstruct  bounda y  iwater   contral   works
*     distruct  boundary     !,    /-iX 7
13(.Yinchumn DM/ /              c
._   , /,        imediurn-reservoir
Ilrrigated farmFands in Nin3           Irrgai     onswors
18
| '~~~~~~~~ > ,_<B~~~~~~~~~~~~asinl pastuLrelands
"        "- <t 2 j2361                                                           g nd farmlands i
,   4t+,   <     \X\\ntt                -~~draln area by
//X/ Gravity irrigated    ) \\\\\   A    ,                    ~underground pipes
area      \\5\              )     \       \
_   planned irrlgated      \    S,,           _      ..............................
_are-a in the near future)s'9'_>/
Well-irrigated area    A'^31t IE as                            N                  O fonae
Planned Dallushu                        '/\
in thge long ter  i    Q 4;,\             ,   e\ \ X
planned main canal   \.^ g                             <
in the near future                                                       .3
In the long termTn(%b4z                                    Prlr s In os l; j s
Fig. 3-5 Irrigation works in Ningxia Region



(2) In rural areas Leq=440-46dB at daytime, Leq=35-40dB at night which conforms
Grade 0 Standards.
It is concluded that the acoustic environment along bi-xn'>popnsed r-autes is quite good.
2. Quality of Ambient Air
(1) The hourly concentrations of CO are between 0. 625 - 2. 50mg/Nm3; daily
concentrations of CO are between 0. 625-1. 88mg/Nm3, both in accord with Grade I .
(2) The hourly and daily concentrations of No. are between 0. 003-0. 058mg/Nm3 and
0. 004-0. 032mg/Nm3 respectively, meeting Grade I of GB 3095-1996.
(3) The daily concentrations of TSP(O. 151-0. 811mg/Nm3) all exceed the standards
by 40-80% because of wind and sand.
3. Lead contents in soil
The sample analysis shows that the lead contents are below 14. 5mg/kg, less than the
standards.
3. 4. 2 Environmental Quality in the Study Area of Yan-Xing Highway
1. Acoustic environment quality
(1) The noise levels of national and provincial roads at 20m on both sides are Leq= 57.
6-62. OdB(daytime), Leq= 53. 9 -56. SdB(night), basically meeting the standard levels
(70dB and 55dB) of Grade 4. At 50m, the levels monitored are:45. 9-56. 6dB and 41. 4-
51. 5dB repectively, meeting Grade 2 basically (60dB and 50dB).
(2) In the rural areas the noise levels are: Leq=40. 1 - 55. 3dB (daytime), Leq= 32. 8
-45. ldB(night), in accord with Grade 0-1.
(3) At Taoshankou-Haojiaji section of either side of G109 the noise levels are 59. 6-
69. 2dB(daytime), meeting Grade 4, but 53. 1-57. 4dB(night), exceeding the limit by 2.
4dB. However, beyond 60m, they meet Grade 0.
2. Ambient air quality
(1) The hourly concentrations of CO is between 0. 625 - 2. 50mg/Nm3. the daily
average is 0. 625-1. 41mg/Nm3, not exceeding Grade I in GB 3095-1996.
(2) The hourly and daily average concentrations of NO, are 0. 003-0. 032 mg/Nm3 and
0. 003-0. 019mg/Nm3 respectively, meeting Grade I in GB 3095-1996.
(3) The daily average of TSP is between 0. 114   1. 005mg/Nm3, exceeding the
standards by 20-100% because of strong wind and plenty of sand.
3. Lead contents in soil
Through sample analysis, the lead content in soil is found between 14. 2-21. Omg/kg,
lower the standards.
4. Water environment quality
(1) Water sources for drinking and aquatic farming are very scarce.
(2) The highway will pass over the Main Yellow River Water Canal for irrigation and
drinking at two places (K73+500 and K179+160). According to the cross section data, the
quality of the Yellow River is in accord with Grade 3 of GB3838-88.
* 19-



4 Social Environmental Benefits and Impact Mitigation Measures
4. 1 Gu-Wang Highway
4. 1. 1 Prediction of Economic Benefit
It is viable to construct the highway thanks to notable financial benefits. See Table 4-1
for the predicted benefits resulted from the highway construction.
Table 4-1   Predicted Financial Benefits of Gu-Wang Highway (2001-2021)
benefits  reduction of cost   time savinig   reduction of accidents  total
traffic         predicted   ratio  predicted   ratio  predicted   ratio  predicted   ratio
volume           value     ( )     va'Lue    W       value    ( O)     valiue     O
(1O,000 yuan)    (10,000 yuan)     (10,000 yuan)    (10,000 yuan)
high       203405   31. 06   440996   67. 34   10458    1.60   654859    100
moderate     157201   28. 77   379703   69.49    9515    1.74    546419    100
low        123308   26.10   340849   72. 16    8222    1. 74   472379    100
4. 1. 2 Analysis of Socio-economic Benefits
The analysis is described as follows: (For detail, see 2. i of EIA):
1. It will play an active role in completion of national trunk line construction and regional
highway networks (See Fig. 3-4). It will serve as a traffic artery in commodity circulation
as well.
2. It will urge the regional economical grouth, Lingwu and Yanchi in particular.
3. It will help promote the resources development in project-affected areas.
4. It will improve the traffic conditions in the remote and backward areas of Shaanxi,
Gansu, Ningxia and Inner Mongolia to help them get out from poverty. Therefore, the
proposed highways are great "poor-assistance projects".
4. 1. 3 Regional Economic Benefits
1. The highway construction will employ lots of labour in transportation and manual
work. It is estimated that 2,409, 000 days of temporary work force will be used. Assuming
that the daily pay of a temporary worker is 18yuan a day, the income will total up to 43,362,
000 yuan during the construction period.
2. Long-term employment such as cleaners, maitenace workers will be provided with the
region.
3. Factors, businesses or service centres will be set up at the would-be economic
development belts resulted from the highway construction.
4.1. 4 Improvement of Living Environment Quality
The National Trunk Highway G307 is a main artery traffic line. It is clear that without
Gu-Wang Highway, the whole traffic volume of Gu-Wang Highway would be transferred
to G307. (See Table 2-1 for predicted volume). Because of the low capacity and poor
conditions, the regional environment will be polluted seriously. So, Gu-Wang Highway will
20 -



better the environment along G307.
1. Reduction of noise
The traffic volurne of G307 will be reduced by 40% by the construction of Gu-Wang
Highway when it is put into operation. In the long term, the traffic volume will be
maintained the same as present. So, the noise level on either side of G307 will be reduced by 3
-4dB. If Gu-Wang Highway were not to be constructed, the noise level on either side of
G307 will be increased by ab. 2dB (2003), ab. 4dB (2010) and ab. 6dB (2020) at daytime.
At night, the figures are ab. 4, 6 and 8 respectively.
2. Improvement of Ambient Air Quality
(1) When the traffic volume of Gu-Wang Highway is the same as that of G307, its
pollutants in the air will be much less than that of G307.
(2) On completion of the new highway. the traffic volume of G307 will be reduced by
40%; CO on either side of G307 will be reduced by 30%; HC will be reduced by about 30%;
NO. will be reduced by about 25%.
(3) Due to the upgradate of the highways. dust resulting from traffic will become much
less.
It can be seen that the air quality will be bettered by the construction of Gu - Wang
Highway in the study area (the corridor of) Gu-Wang Highway and G307.
3. The number of the people who will gain benefits from bettering environment
The distance between Guyaozi and Wangquanling (G307) is about 94km. On both sides
along the highway there are sensitive spots: Guyaozi, Huimmxiang, Huimingxiang Primary
School, Dongwan Village, Dongwan Primary School, Gaoshawo Town, Gaoshawo Primary
School, Gaoshawo High School, Liub Village, Babao and YanchiCountytown. On both sides
of the highway, small streets have appeared. G307 has been streetlized at Yanchi County
town section.
According to the survey, within 200m of G307 the population is about 32,000 (6,387 in
the study area of Gu - Wang Highway). On completion of Gu - Wang Highway, it will
benefit these 32,000 people by improving their living standard.
4. 1. 5 Impact of Land Requisition and Mitigation Measures
The highway construction will use 7241. 49 mu of land. Due to the fact that the land per
person along the route is plentiful, the land use will not have any adverse impact on the lile of
the tarmers. However, it is very dificult to control desertification of soil. Therefore,
farmland, espeeially puddy land, will be given special attention to protect in construction of
the highway. For more protection measures of farmland, land requisition and impacts, see 5.
1. 3 of EIA of Gu-Wang Highway.
4. 1. 6 Impact on Infrastructures and Mitigation Measures
1. Existing roads
Gu-Wang Highway will be installed with two grade separations and three interchanges.
In the course of construction, the existing roads will be impproved, G307 in particular.
Impacts on local roads and mitigation measures, are listed in 5. 1. 3 of 5. 6.
2. Protection measures of irrigation ditches and surface runoff
One large bridge, four medium-sized bridges. one small bridge and 128 cullverts will be
* 21 -



built (see Table 2-4) which can ensure smooth running of ditches and runoff.
4. 1. 7 Traffic Severance and Mitigation Measures
For the need of grazing, farming and contact of masses, 73 passages, 9 pedestrian
flyovers, 2 grade separations and 3 interchanges will be provided with 0. 93 passages per
kilometres (1 place per 1. 08km), which can meet the need.
4. 2  Yan-Xing Highway
4. 2. 1 Prediction of Economic Benefits
See Table 4 - 2 for the forecast of econoncic benefits of Yan -Xing Highway which
imdicates the feasibility of construction due to notable economic benefits.
Table 4-2 Predicted Benefits of Yan-Xing Highway(2000-2020)
traffic volume            high             medium               low
benefits(10,000 yuan)      121846. 64         100568.6           85350.4
4. 2. 2 Analysis of Socio-economic Benefits
The benefits are described as follows (For detail, see 5. 2 of the EIA):
1. Yan-Xing Highway is an east-west bound trunk road passing through the central
part of Ningxia; it will complete the road net configuration and improve the transport capacity
to a great extent. (See Fig. 3-4).
2. Passing through the central three counties (Yanchi, Tongxin and Haiyuan) which are
poor and backward will certainly help them to get out from poverty and, accordingly, become
richer by developing their economy fast thanks to the construction of the road.
3. The Irrigation Works by lifting Yellow River water and Yanhuang Irrigation works
are of 'a poor-assistance project" in Ningxia. Yan-Xing Highway, passing through the
Hongsibao Irrigation Area (See Fig. 3-5 ), will promote the economic growtn in these areas.
4. In the areas where there lies Yan-Xing Highway live Hui people mostly, and in the
proposed Hongsibao Irrigation Area, about 400000 poor farmers (most of them are Hui
people) will be migrated. The new highway, therefore, will play an active role in the
migration and promotion of the econonlic growth. Besides, it will encourage national unity.
We can conclude that the construction of Yan Xing Highway will have profound
significance.
4. 2. 3 Regional Economic Benefits
1. For construction of the road, 1,766,000 labor days of manual work or transportation
will be needed. Supposing an hourly payment is 18 yuan, the total benefit in terms of money
will be 31,788,000 yuan.
2. In operation phase, permanent employment such as cleaning and maintenace will be
provided.
3. It will bring about some new industries and businesses, both state and private.
4. 2. 4 Improvement of Living Environment Quality
If the Yan-Xing Highway should not be constructed, due to the low grade of the road
and low capacity, and increased traffic volume, noise, air pollution (TSP in particular) would
*22 *



be much more serious than the predicted levels of Yan-Xing Highway. More sensive spots
and people would be affected than No-build option. So, the construction of the Yan-Xing
Highway will better the environment much.
4. 2. 5 Impact of Land Requisition and Mitigation Measures
3335. 06mu of the land will be requisitioned for Yan - Xing Highway right-of-way
(including improvements to existing roads and new construction). See Table 4-3. Because
of the larger area of farmland per person in Wanglejing, Fengjigou, Maerzhuang and
Huianbao of Yanchi County (See Table 3- 2), the land use will not have much adverse
impact on the regional economy by reducing only 0. 07mu of land per person. Yet, it is better
to take as less land as possible for the project in design.
Table 4-3      Land use of Yan-Hui Section for Right-of-Way
station  area      type of land and amount (mu)         total
station          area              l(tota
arid    puddy    forest   deserted     (mu
KO+000-K86+300  Yanchi county  2666.89   56.36       2.10    609. 71     3335.06
4. 2. 6 Impact on Infrastructures and Mitigation Measures
1. Protection measures for Yellow River Irrigation Canals
The Yan-Xing Highway passes the Irrigation Canal twice by means of bridge at K73+
500 and K179+160. The length of the bridge is parallel to the width of the canal (16m).
The cross section of the canal is 8m, so smooth running the water can be ensured. To keep
the water in canals not to be polluted, the roadside ditches to catch surface runoff will be
provided.
2. For protection measures of farmlands irrigation ditches and runoff, 469 culverts (172
new ones for Yan-Hui Road), 23 small bridges (1 new for Yan-Hui Road) and 11 medium
bridges (1 new for Yan-Hui Road) have been designed to ensure smooth irrigation ditches
and surface runoff.
4. 2. 7 Operation Maintenance and Safety Measures
1. Operation maintenace
To maintain normal operation, the following measures will be taken:
(1) No buildings shall be permitted to be built within 20m on either side of the road.
(2) No business activities shall be allowed to conduct on the road.
(3) No garbage, waste or sewage shall be allowed to be dumped or discharged on (or
near) the road.
(4) No irrigation ditches shall be allowed to dug on the road.
(5) Traffic order shall be kept by strengthening management
2. Safety measures
Being an ordinary class I and not an enclosed highway, it will have some impact on
safety. Therefore, at crossings, schools or villages speed-limit signs will be put up to warn
drivers to slow down.
* 23



5 Major Impact on Environment and Mitigation Measures
5. 1  Analysis of Impact on Cultural Remains (Great
Wall of Miing Dynasty) and Protection Measures
5. 1. 1 The Cultural Remains (Great WVall of Mling Dynasty)
The Gu Wang Highway will pass through the Great Wall of iMing Dynasty at
Yangjiaquan west of Yanchi Countytown (K1926 +120). See Fig. 5- 1 for the relationship
between of the alignment and the Wall and other works. The Wall is located north of G307,
originating from the east bank of the Yellow River. going eastward till Fengyaojing of
Dingbian County of Shaanxi Province. It was built in the tenth year of Jiajing Period of Ming
Dynasty (1531 AD). It was founded on the flat sandy soil. In the long course of exposure to
the weather and human activities, it has been collapsed or damaged badly with only remains
left (See Fig. 5-2). According to the document of Yanchi County Goverment No 144,
(1997), the Great wall now is under protection of county level sectionally. The section
befween Shiliupu and Wubao is not listed as the protection section because of serious collapse.
Through the reconnaissance-level survey by experts, the Yanjiaquan Section through which
the highway will pass does not belong to the protection section, Experts claimed that the
passage of the highway through the wall will not impact on the protection of it. The county
government issued an official letter regarding this. agreeing with passing through the Wall
(See Appendix 2). For detail, see 5. 2 of EIA of Gu-Wang Highway.
,. .wz .~~~~~~~.,
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ,  ..           .  , ,,v..   
.       ..   .    ~~~~~~~.  -.   .    .  .
Fig. 5-2   Remains of the Great Wall at Present
- 24



WA- ~     -
-'37                                                       /
;iur  / Cr                             7
-I                           'j '        \d ' 'i A, R/ !
Fig. 5-1   Distribution of Engineering projects Near The Remains of The Ming
Dynasty Great Wall and Place Where Planned Expressway Pass Through The Great Wall
*25-



5. 1. 2 Schenic or thie Passage throaigh the Great Wall
A demonstration on varions locations and modes of passage has been carried out. See 5.
2 of EIA of Gu-Wang Highway.
1. Location of passage
On the basis of demonstration, there is no No Pass Scheme.
A greater opening at Yanjiaquan (KI26 + 120) has been chosen as the most suitable
place to pass throuigh the remains of the Wall.
2. Modes of passing the Wall
(1) Flying over by means of bridge
Based on demonstration, the cost of the bridge would be as high as 64, 000,000 yuan for
a 600m-long bridge. The great amount of borrow for embankments will do damage to the
environment. Therefore. this scheme is not rational both technically and financially.
(2)Passing through by means of underpass
Based on demonstration, an underpass (tunnel with a length of 800m and a width of
28m would be needed, which would cost 68. 000, 000 yuan, This scheme is not feasible
because of huge amount of work. A mountain of spoil would be harmful to ecology. Besides,
it would be difficult to drain the water in the tunnel.
(3) Passing through the remains of the Wall
Based on demonstration, passing through the remains at a greater opening at
Yangjiaquan (K126+120) is the optimal scheme for the folowing reasons: this section is not
under protectioni by passing through it at a greater opening it will not make any impact on
the Wall as a whole. It can be seen that it is viable both technically and economically.
5. 1. 3 Potential Impact on the Great Wall
Because of the fact that the proposed route will pass through the remains of the Wall
which is not under protection program, it will not bring about any obvious impact or do any
damage to its historical or economic value.
5. 1. 4 Protection Measures
1. Meastires during design phase
(1) The excavation amount will be reduced by moving the passage eastward by about
100m at a greater opening.
(2) The excavation cross section will be reduced by increasing the included angle of the
route and the Wall.
The above two measures have been included in design.
2. Protection measures during the construction phase are included in 5. 6. 8 of 5. 6.
5. 2 Impact on Ecological Environnment and Mitigation Measures
5. 2. 1 Impact on vegetation
26



1. Impact elements and the amount                 2
The vegetation along the road will be undermined by the such factors as right-of-way,
sites for subgrade borrow and spoil, construction temporary roads, mixing sites and
construction camps. Based on the design data, the impact degree is listed in Table 5-1.
Table 5-1                    Impact on Vegetation
land      borrow sites    spoil sites  temporary
road       requisitioned    (mu)           (mu)        land take       remark
____________________ (m u)                               (m u)
Gu-Wang         7241. 49       1960. 0                     589.1       deserted land
will be used for
Ya .Xn      3335. 06        316. 8                      51.6borrow and
Yan-Xing    (Yan--Hui Section) (Yan-Hui Section)           517. 6      temporary use
2. Analysis of Impact on vegetation
Due to the fact that the two highways are located in the ecology of deserted steppe, the
damaged soil will be desertificated easily, and as a result, the pasture will be deteriorated
causing irreversible effect. The only way to prevent the soil from being desertificated is to
preserve and restore them.
5. 2. 2  Measures for Subgrade Protection and Prevention from Soil Desertification
The most effective way to protect subgrade and prevent the soil- from being desertificated
is to plant forest belts and protect vegetation (including vegetation restoration).
1. Subgrade protection tree belts
The section (K53+500-K98+500) of Gu-Wang Highway lies in the area of drifting
dunes (See Fig. 3-2), 14. 56km of it suffering from sand disaster. while two sections (K23
+800-K80+400 and K89+832-K100I+932) of Yan-Xing Highway lies in the Baha
drifting dunes in the central Lingyan, 38. 79km of them suffering from sand disaster. To
control and check the disaster, forest belts have been designed on both sides of the related
sections. To get better effect, straw-obstacle plant belts are proposed to be adopted. In the 3
-5 years' time, due to biological effect, fixed or semi-fixed sandy fields will be formed. In
Ningxia, the drifting dunes move forward at a speed of 6. 0-7. 8m a year. The width of the
belts must be 50m windward and 30m leeward. The area of forest belts is listed in Table 5-
2.
2. Plantantion within right-of-way
Plantation within right-of-way is aimed at preventing soil erosion of suhgrade,
beautifying the scenery along the road and compensating for the loss of vegetation. See Table
5-2 for detail.
3. Vegetation restoration
On completion of the construction, borrow sites, material yards, mixing sites, access
roads and other temporary land shall be cleared up for plantation. See Table 5-2 for detail.
The protection forest belts will be formed by afforestation within* right-of-way, subgrade
forest belts and plantation restoration which will bring about enormous economic and social
benefits.
27 -



Table 5-2                Plantation Area of the Highways
area                 requirements
type of plantation   Gu-Wang H. YanXing H            of plantation         objectives
ab. 800mu   drought enduring sob  1. compensation for
right-of-way       2970. 5mu     (Yan-Hui  for slope; beyond toe:      vegetation loss
Section      drought enduring    2. prevention  from
bushes            soil erosion
vegetation restoration    1960. Omu   316. 8mu
of borrow sites                                       drought        1. prevention  from
durogh            soil desertification
vegetation restora-                                    endurng        2. prevention  from
tion of temporary    589. lmu       517. 6mu           bushes             soil erosion
land use
to plant protection   1. prevention  from
subgrade protection   1747. 2mu      4654. 8mu     forests according to   sand disaster
tree belts                                    Afforestation Tech   2. improvement  of
Specifications       ecosystem
total          7266. 8mu      6289. 2mu
Note: Plantation shall be conducted as soon as the project is finished, the design of which must be
made by specialists in afforestation.
5. 2. 3 Vegetation Protection Measures during Construction Phase
The Xingshan Deserted Area (Lingyan Terrace in particular) of Yanchi County and
Tongxin County is characterized by drought, plenty of sand and strong wind. Therefore, it is
substantially important to prevent soil from being desertificated. Its vegetation protection
measures are listed in 5. 6. 4 of 5. 6.
5. 2. 4 Impact on Soil Erosion and Mitigation Measures
1. Analysis of soil erosion during construction phase
According to soil erosion zoning, the alingnment area belongs to semi-arid steppe of
moderate wind erosion and light water erosion with an erosion modulus of 200-20OOt/km2 D
yr.
Based on forecast, the erosion strength during the construction phase will be 7. 5 times
and 5. 0 times as compared to the existing levels of Gu - wang Highway and Yan - Xing
Highway respectively. See 5. 4 and 6. 2 of the EIA of Gu - Wang and Yan - Xing
individually.
2. Preventron measures of soil erosion
(1) Highway drainage works
To ensure stable subgrade and prevent soil erosion, reliable drainage works have been
designed.
(2) Subgrade protection works
To prevent subgrade water and wind erosion, mortar block retaining walls, mortar schist
slopes and stone square network slopes have been designed. Some other supplementary
measures of plantation have been also considered. (See Table 5-3).
(3) Subgrade sand-fixing tree belts
28 -



In the areas of drifting dunes, for both highways, subgrade protection tree belts have
been incorparated to prevent sand encroachment (See Table 5-2).
(4) Sand-checking belts
Sand-checking belts are used to protect green belts and highway protection belts on either
sides during the construction phase and early phase of operation. They will be set up in the
front of drifting dunes to prevent dunes from going forward.
Table 5-3          Subgrade Protection and Estimated Cost
measures  stone slops                      .
fraeok   grouted stone    protection     anti-sand       cs
highway       grameworp     net slopes      wall        and wind   (10,000 yuan)
hlghway \ grass slops
Gu-Wang    308905. 00m2   12149. 28m'   42550.20m2       3470m        1644. 07
Yan-Xing      16487. 61m3    3019. 68m3   8744. Oom      8744m        2092. 73
(5) Gentle slopes for subgrade
According to 6. 9 in {Highway Subgrade Design Specifieations) (JTJ 013 - 95), fill
slope of highways is 1 : 2. 0- I: 4. 0;cut slope    1 : 2. 5-1 : 4.0 (1: 4.0 in areas of
shifting dunes).
(6) Borrow sites and protection
* Borrow shall be centralized.
* Borrow sites shall be located on leeward hills. Depth of borrow sites shall be the same
or a litlle bit lower than ground level. And the slope of the site shall be gentle for plantation.
* As soon as borrow work is over, plantation must be made to restore vegetation.
(7) Protection measures of plantation
As afforestation is an effective measure to prevent soil erosion, it must be conducted as
follows considering the regional features:
* All the areas damaged by construction activities except permanent structures shall be
restored for plantation of vegetation.
* At the wind erosion areas, the lower I of the slope shall be planted with erosion
3
enduring bushes such as hedy sarum scoparium, populus, psamochloa villosa and caragana
korshinskilete.
* When the height of embankments and cuttings is less than 3m, the lower part of 1
will be planted with drought enduring bushes, while the upper part-drought enduring sobs
or bushes to conserve soil and beautify the landscape. When the height is more than 3m, the
1
lower part of 3 shall be protected by means of mortar stones or stohe squares, or by greening
as an auxiliary means. The upper part-sobs.
* When the slope height of cuttings exceeds the standards, terraced slopes will be
adopted. A terrace will be provided every 2-3m. The width of the terrace will not be less
than 1. 5m on which bushes will be planted. But on the slope, sobs or bushes will be planted.
50% - 70% of soil erosion will be mitigated by all the measures metioned above, like
- 29 -



subgrade protection works, drainage works and forest belts. In 3 -5 years of operation, the
soil erosion strength will b refurn back to the original state prior to construction. With the
increase of time, the green corridors along the route will control and check wind-sand erosion
to improve ecological environment.
5. 2. 5 Analysis of Impact of Lead Accumulation in Soil during Operation
See Table 5-4 for detail. The table shows that the lead particles from vehicle exhaust
gases will hardly make any impact on soil quality with the use of lead-free petrol, the lead
contents will be less than the predicted levels.
Table 5-4 Lead Predicted Accumulation on Both Sides of Highways
highway    ~   PH  Pb stardard  Pb accumulated levels (mg/kg)
highway       soil P)H     (mg/kg)rd       
.   (mg/kg)           2010                      2020
Gu-Wang          8.08         350             15. 34-15. 98             17.25-18. 56
Yan-Xing         8.28         350             14. 79-21. 83             16. 27-23. 09
5. 3 Impact on Acoustic Environment and Mitigation Measures
5.3.1   Gu-Wang Highway
1. Predicted levels of ambient noise in the study area
See Table 5-5 for noise levels and levels beyond the standards at the sensitive spots of
Gu-Wang Highway.
Table 5-5 Predicted Noise Levels at Sensitive Spots in Study Area
predicted levels & levels beyond
senstiv   poldist. from      the standards L.,(dB)
order  station     spots        tion    centre  2003       2010       2020        measures
(in)    day night day night day night_
64.2 57. 2 66.3 58. 7 67.5 60. 7     suitable
measures
1  K48+150   Guyaozi    127          40                                       will be taken in
0   2. 2   0   3. 7   0   5. 7  the second stage
0   2. 2   0   3.7   0   5. 7 of construction
2  K53+500 Huiminxiang  130          120    55.2 47.9 58.9 50.0 60.4 52.0
2  K53500  Huiminxiang  130  120    -a--  -     0 1     0    0
3   K61+75    Dongwan 2800  180  53.1 44.5 55.2146.2157.2 47.6
Village   ___0    0    0    0    0    0
54.7 46.4 56.4 48. 1 58.4 49.8
4  K90+200   Gaoshawo   1500        150       0    0    0          0    0
53. 1 44.2 55. 2 45. 7 57. 3 47.7
5 K128+180   Wubao          600      180                -          -    - 0    0 70
0    0    0    0    0    0
52.4 43.3 52.9 43.7 55.1 45.3
6 K131+220  Beiguanzi   1230        200       0     0     0     0    0    0
Note:Prediction point is at im before the windows of first row of the building. The same is in the
following tables.
30



2. Impact assessment of acoustic environment
(1) Traffic noise will have no notable impact on environment by avoiding sensitive
villages and towns and other sensitive spots.
(2) The noise at night at Guyaozi exceeds the standards a little in short-term and med-
term  operation. But in 2020 the levels will exceed the standards by 5. 7dB, disturbing
residents.
3. Mitigation measures for impact on acoustic environment
Noise monitoring will be conducted at Guyaozi. Suitable measures will be taken in the
second stage of construction. Yard walls are suggested to be built for the first row buildings.
5. 3. 2 Yan-Xing Highway
1. Predicted levels of ambient noise in the study area
See Table 5-6 for noise levels and levels beyond the standards at sensitive spots during
operation phase.
Predicted Noise Levels at Schools and Hospitals
Table 5-6a                         and Prevention Measures
noise levels & levels
distance     beyond standards L.,(dB)
order    sensitive spots    population  from road                                  measures
centre (m)   2002       2010       2020
day night day night day night_
Shitangwo Prim.       162        32     56.8 47.8 59.6 50.6 62.5 53.6   yard walls
1         Schoi            162         32                                        300m X 3m
School0    0    0   O. 6  2. 5  3. 6    after 2002
Majiahewang Prim.                        51. 8 42.8 54.6 45. 6 57.5 48. 6  existing walls
2         School           143         30      0    0    0    0    0    0  educed by 5. Odl
3    Hanjiaoshui High                  20     60. 4 52. 2 63. 5 55. 3 65. 1 56. 9   yard walls
3      376        20                                        500~~~~~~~~SOmX3m
School                              0. 4  2.2  3.5  5.3  5.1  6.9    after 2002
4    Hanjiashui Prim.      1077        60     54. 0 44. 9 56. 4 45. 8 57. 9 47. 3   noise
School                               0    0    0    0    0    0       monitoring
Xialiushui High      243        60     54. 0 44. 9 56. 4 45. 8 57. 9 47. 3
School                               0    0    0    0    0    0
6     Xialiushui Prim.                 50    54. 6 46. 0 57. 7 47. 6 59. 3 49.1
6      ~~School          120    o    o    o    o    0
7      Xingren High        920        180    44.6 34.4 46.1 36.2 48.7 38.7  existing walls
School                               0    0    0    0    0    0
8      Xingten prim.       1060       170    45.0 34.8 46.5 36.7 49.1 39.3  existing waUls
School                               0    o    o    o    o   .0
Haojiaji Prim.                         49.4 38. 9 51. 4 40. 2 54. 0 42. 8
9 ~     Sho              430        80                    -              existing wails
School                    ~~~~0    0    0    0    0    0
10       Xialiushui       staff:6      60     53.2 45.1 56.3 45.7 58. 9 48.3
Hospital        bed3                 0    0    0    0    0          O O
31 -



Table 5- 6b Predicted Noise Levels at Towns and Villages and Prevention Measures
-noise levels & levels
distance     beyond standards L (dB)
order  sensitive spots population  from road    2002     2010       2020         measures
centre (m)   -                    - -
day night day night day night
1     Shengiing       630         20     60. 3 51. 6 62. 5 54.2 65. 3 56. 6
Village       630                            0    0    0   1. 6    measures taken
2      Bianjiwa       1165        30     59. 0 49.5 61.0 51. 7 63.3 54.    monitored levels
2  Bianjiwa  1165     30       0    0    0    0    0    0    ________
3    Zhengjiabaozi    1980        60     52.6 42.6 55.2 45.0 57.7 47.7
____   ~~0    0    0    0    0           0
4      Guengtan       520         30     59. 0 49. 5 61. 0 51. 7 63. 3 54. 2
4      Guangtan       520         30       0    0    0    0    0    0
5      Qianjitan      248         30     59. 0 49.5 61.0 51.7 63.3 54.2
5  Qianjitan      248        30       0    0    0    0    0    0
55.1 45.6 57.7 48.0 59.8 49.7
6    Jierzhuangzi      63         50      ~0    0    0    0    0    0
49.3 39.6 51.7 41.2 54.7 43.5
7   Fenghuangliang     76         80       0    0    0    0    0    0
59.7 50.7 61.9 53.3 64.4 55.6
8    Gongerzhuang     117         20       0    0    0    0    0   0. 6
9      Xueganzi       384         80     49. 9 39. 7 52. 7 42.1 55. 8 44.6
Village    ______0    0    0    0    0-   0
10    Bacunzhuang      102        10    49.2 38.3 51.3 40.4 54.3 43.0
0    0    0    0    0
11     Guandian        147         30     56. 8 47. 8 59. 6 50.6 62. 5 53. 6
Village       14I3                0    0    0    60  *0~*
12   Lianyi Village    1087        30     56.8 47.8 59.6 50.6 62.5 53.6
____   ~~0    0    0    0    0    0
13    Majiahewang      146         20     59. 0 50. 8 61. 8 53.6 64. 8 56. 6   measures taken
13          146         20      -    --    -based on
Village                            0    0    0          0   1.6    mntrdlvl
14  Xinmajiahewang   1400          30     56. 8 47. 8 59. 6 50.6 62.5 53.6
14  Village       1030                 0    0    0    0    0    0
15     Wufengtai       560         30     58.2 49.2 61.3 52.3 62.9 53. 9
.____________                         0     0    0 _        0     0
Hanjiashui                         58.2 49.2 61.3 52.3 62.9 53. 9          noise
16      Village        878         30      0    0    0  ,0    0    0           monitoring
55. 2 45. 9 57. 7147,6 59.3,49.1
17     Xinzhuang      1307         50      0  40    0  470    0  420
18    Datanchuan      1593         30     58.2 49.2 61.3 52.3 62.9 53.9
18                                     0    0    0    0    0    0
56.9 48.9 59. 0 49.3 60.6 50.9
19     Baiquanzi      1171         40      O-   0    0    0    0    O
53. 3 43. 7 56. 4 45.8 57.9 47.3
20    Duanjiashang    1487         60      0    0    0    0    0    0
62.3 56. 2 64. 5 57.7 65. 8 58. 7   measures taken
21      Dongtah        604         20     6235-  -    -.   77  585.             based on
0   1. 2   0   2. 7   6   3. 7   monitored levels
69. 7 58. 2 70. 2 59.5 70. 6 60. 2   exceeding
22   Xingren Town    2900          20       0   3.   0.2  4.5  0.6  5.2   levels by 2. 4 dB
0   3. 2   0 2  4. 5    . 6  S. 2 at night
55. 0 46.2 57.6 47.5 60. 2 50.11
23     Lijiazhuan      404         50       0    0    0    0    -      0-- 
62. 3 56. 2 64. 5 57. 7 65. 8 58. 7   measures taken
24      Haojiaji       2432        20       - -based on
24  Haojiaji  2432   20   0   1. 2   0   2. 7   0   3. 7   monitored levels
* 32



2. Impact assessment of acoustic environment
(1) Because of light traffic volume and low speed, there will not be obvious acoustic
impact at sensitive spots during operation phase of Yan-Xing Highway with a level of Grade
I 30m away from the road, 40m away Grade II.
(2) Traffic noise will have some impact on schools in the study area making the levels at
Shitangou Primary School and Hanjiashui Junior High School exceed the standards.
3. Mitigation Measures for impact on acoustic environment
(1) Yard walls 300 X 3m and 500 X 3m will be provided with the above mentioned
schools, by means of which noise can be reduced by 5-8dB.
(2) At Dongtang Haojiaji and other towns or villages closer to the roads, environmental
monitoring will be tightened. If necessary, suitable measures will be taken.
(3) The distance of new buildings from the road shall be limited. The housing planning
for migrants in Hongsibao District shall be controlled. New houses will be >40m from the
road for safety.
(4) At densely populated villages (Fengjiguo, Xinmaiiahewang, Hanjiashui and Xingren
Town ete. ) and schools (Shitangou Primary Shool, Xinmaiiahewang Primary School,
Hanjiashui Junior High Shool and Elementary School ete. ) 'no-horning marks" shall be
installed.
5. 3. 3 Impact of Noise and Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase
See 5. 6. 1 of 5. 6 for detail.
5. 4 Imnact on Ambient Air and Mitigation Measures
5. 4. 1 Operation Phase
1. Gu-Wang Highway
According to prediction, the concentrations of CO and NO. in the study area during the
operation phase (2003-2020) are in conformation with Grade I in (Standards of Ambient
Air Quality) GB 3095-1996, making scarcely any impact on air quality along the route. See
5. 6 of EIA of Gu-Wang Highway.
2. Yan-Xing Highway
According to predietion, the concentrations of CO and NO, in the study area during the
construction phase (2002 - 2020) are in conformation with Grade I in (Standards for
Ambient Air Quality) GB 3095-1996, making searcely any impact on air quality along the
route. See 7. 2 of EIA of Yan-Xing Highway.
5. 4. 2 Construction Phase
The mitigation measures of construction phase are listed in 5. 6. 2 of 5. 6.
5. 5  Impact on Water Environment and Mitigation Measures
5. 5. 1 Gu-Wang Highway during Operation Phase
The major pollutants will come from domestic sewage in the service centres. For the first
33 *



stage, only toll stations and power supply facilities will be provided. Other service facilities
such as restaurants and shops will be set up in the second stage. The small amount of sewage
from toll stations will be disposed of in the septic tanks, and solid garbage will be carried away
in cans.
5. 5. 2 Yan-Xing Highway during Operation Phase
1. Impact on surface runoff and mitigation measures
The alignment passes over Yanhuanding Yellow River Irrigation Canal at Maerzhuang
(K73+500) and Daliushu Yellow River Irrigation Canal at Shitangou (KI79+160). To
prevent the canals from being polluted, drainage ditches are used to catch runoff.
2. Sewage from service centres
No other services will be installed except small toll stations for an ordinary class I
highway. The small amount of sewage will be disposed of in septic tanks and solid garbage
will be carried away in dustbin.
5. 5. 3 Impact on Water Environment during Construction Phase
See 5. 6. 3 of 5. 6 for detail.
5. 6 Major Environmental hnpact and Mitigation
Measures during Construction Phase
5. 6. 1 Noise Impact and Mitigation Measures
1. Noise-producing machinery shall not be allowed to work at night (22: 00  6: 00) at
densely residential areas.
2. Hearing protection for construction workers will be provided such as ear plugs or
helms. Their working hours must be arranged properly.
3. Material transportation vehicles must avoid traffic peak h6urs to reduce traffic jam and
interference to residents.
4. To reduce noise, material yards shall be 1 00m or beyond from sensitive spots.
5. The builders shall get permision about working hours from schools exposed to
construction noise from large machinery (spreaders or such things).
5. 6. 2 Impact on Ambient Air and Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase
1. Measures to reduce construction dust
(1)By spaying water, dust may be reduced. But in this area water is very scarce, so only
at residential areas and construction sites this work can be done appropriately.
(2)Lime and ash mixing sites must be located 100m beyond sensitive spots.
(3) Powder materials such as cement, lime shall be transported in cans, bags, not in
bulk. Stockpiles and storage areas shall be covered.
(4)Transport vehicles with earth, sand and stones shall not be overloaded to mninimize
spills.
2. Prevention measures against asphalt fumes
(1)Asphalt mixing sites shall be located at least 300m from sensitive sites on the leeside
34 -



of the wind direction.
(2) Asphalt mixing equipment will be fitted with dust collection facilities to guarantee
Grade I emission standard in (Asphalt Pollutants Emission standards)(asphalt tarS150mg/
m3), GB4916-85.
5. 6. 3 Impact on Water Environment and Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase
1. Domestic sewage and dung shall be treated in the septic tanks with brick inner walls to
fertilize the soil. Domestic garbage shall be cleared up timely, or fermented as manure.
2. Harmful materials such as asphalt, cement or ashes shall not be stored near the canals
or wells to prevent from scouring into water bodies.
3. Production waste water will not be discharged into irrigation channels. Evaporation
tanks shall be provided when necessary and they will be filled out when construction work is
over.
4. During construction, waste asphalt, construction garbage or other waste materials will
not be stockpiled on the site. They must be disposed of properly.
5. 6. 4 Vegetation Protection to Avoid Soil Desertification
1. The alignment shall to pass through the woods by detouring them on the outer edges
as much as possible.
2. Borrow shall be centralized and not use forest land.
3. Material yards and mixing sites shall not encroach forest land. Trees beyond righ-of-
way shall be forbidden to be cut.
4. Construction camps shall not be set up in forest lands. Workers will be told not to cut
trees as fuel.
5. Workers are forbidden to dig licorice roots.
5. 6. 5 Land Resources Protection
1. Borrow and cutting shall be balanced as much as possible to reduce borrow amount.
2. On completion of construction, the borrow sites shall be cleared up for plantation and
reclamation.
3. Material yards, mixing sites and access roads and other kinds of temporary land use
shall not use farmland. On completion of construction, all temporary land taken shall be
cleared up and loosened for plantation and vegetation restoration.
5. 6. 6 Impact on Existing Local Roads and Mitigation Measures
1. Material transport activity time shall be controlled; no or less transport during peak
hours to reduce noise, pollution and traffic accidents.
2. No overload of construction material is permitted when transported to avoid spill.
3. Damaged roads shall be repaired timely during or after construction activities, or be
compensated for.
4. The disrupted traffic by construction shall be connected by building temporary access
roads to existing roads.
5. Section of Huianbao  Haojiaji and section of Huianbao - Taoshankou of Yan - Hui
* 35 -



Highway are of paving sections or improvements to G109. To ensure normal traffic, the
following measures are to be taken:
(1) It will be constructed by section.
(2) Half-width construction model will be used.
(3) Traffic wardens will be posted at both construction ends to avoid traffic jams.
5. 6. 7 Safety
1. Material transport vehicles shall avoid peak hours to reduce traffic congestion and
accidents.
2. A safety person will be responsible for safety. A remarkable warning line will be used
to keep residents and cattle away from construction sites.
5. 6. 8 Protection Measures of Cultural Remains (Great Wall of Ming Dynasty)
1. The excavated spoil shall be put on the remains of the Wall and compacted properly.
2. No borrow shall be allowoed within 80m from the Wall. No human activities like
building cooking stoves will be permitted.
3. If cultural relics are found, the local authority shall be informed of such discovery, and
excavation shall be stopped until permission is got to resume.
5. 6. 9 Inpact Analysis of Material Yards
1. Gu-Wang Highway
(1) Stones: come from Heishantao Quarry, Shijingzigou Quarry and Huiminxiang
Quarry. The everage haulage distance is 15-20km by using G307.
(-2) Sand: comes from Shijingzigou Quarry, Huiminxiang Quarry, Qingshuiying
Quarry.
(3)Earth: comes from 19 borrow sites, most of which are located on or nearby the line
location.
See Attached Fig. 3. All the Material Yards are 100m beyond sensitive spots.
2. Yan-Xing Highway
(1) Stones: 3 quarries for Yan  Hui Section. 7 quarries for Hui - Hao Section. The
average haulage distance is 20-50km using access transport means.
(2)Sand: 4 quarries for Yan-Hui Section with an average distance of 10. 7km. Some
large gullies or alluvial flats can be used for Hui-Hao Section.
(3)Earth: comes from small centralized borrow sites along Yan-Hui Section.
See Attached Fig. 4 for more information about the quarried mentioned above. All of the
quarries are 100m beyond sensitive spots, making no obvious impacts. Stones and sands are
purchased, the cost for which include expenses for environment control cost.
5. 7 Major Environmental Inpact and Mitigation Measures
during Operation Phase as Summary
5. 7. 1 Prevention Measures of Environmental Impact
Prevention measures for both Gu-Wang and Yan-Xing highways are listed in Table 5
* 36 v



-7. With these measures, the impact can be eliminated or reduced to a minimum.
Table 5-7       Major Environmental Prevention Measures during Operation Phase
environmen- highway                   environmental measures                      target
tal issues
Gu-   1. Noise monitoring at Guyaozi. In second stage, the first rows of noise reduced
Wang      buildings will provided with yard walls 60 X 2. 5m'       by 3-5dB
noise          2. Yard walls 300m X 3m for Shitangou Primary School       noise reduced
Yan-   3. Yard walls 500mX 3m for Hanjiaoshui J. High School        by 5-8dB
Xing   4. Noise monitoring  at Shengjing  Village, Majiahewang,
Dongtan and Xingren Town. Suitable measures if necessary
5. At K73+ 500 and K179+ 160 where the route passes over
irrigation canals, ditches are provided to protect canal water
Water    Yan-    quality
Water  Xing  -__________________________
environ-           6. Small amount of sewage from toll stations will be disposed of in
ment               septic tanks; soild garbage is carried away in cans        to protect
water
Gu-   7. Small amount of sewage from toll stations will be disposed of in  environment
Wang    septic tanks; solid garbage is carried away in cans
8. 2970. 5 mu of green project within righ-of-way
wind/sand   Gu-    9. 2549. 1 mu of borrow sites and temporary land use will be   to protect
encroach-   Wanb     restored for plantation                                  subgrade, to
ment soil          10. 1747. 2 mu of subgrade forest belt set up                improve
ecological
erosion           11. 800 mu of green project within right-of-way (Yan-Hui environment,
soil                Scin
tesertifi-  Yxan    12. 834. 4mu of borrow sites and temporary land use will be   to better
cation    Xing       restored for plantation                                   scenery
13. 4654. 8mu of subgrade forest belt set up
5. 7. 2 Management Measures of Noise Control
1. Within 50m of Gu-Wang Highway, no new houses are allowed to be built; within
100m, no new schools and hospitals are allowed to be built.
2. Development planning will be controlled along Yan-Xing route, Hongsibao District in
particular. No permanent buildings will be allowed to be set up within 40m from the road.
No-horning marks shall be set up at densely peopled villages or towns (like Bianjiwa,
Xingmajiahe, Hangjiaoshui and Xingren Town) and schools (like Shitanguo Primary School,
Xinmajiahewan Primary School, Hanjiaoshui J. High School and Centr School)
5. 7. 3 Transportation Management
1. Prevention against risk of transportation of hazardous materials
(1 ) Transport of hazardous materials shall be reported to the Public Security
Department. Proper danger sign shall be painted on the vehicles. The vehicles and drivers
shall be inspected. Transport of hazardous materils shall not be allowed during the traffic peak
time.
(2) Hazardous materials shall not be transported together with passengers, other goods
or materials. When transported, they shall be supervised by special vehicles.
(3) Warning signs shall be posted at sensitive spots, residential areas or main canals for
drivers.
2. Operation management of Yan-Xing Highway
Operation management will be conducted according to 4. 2. 7 of 4. 2 in this report.
* 37 .



6 Public Involvement and Investigation Summary
6. 1 Public Involvement and Investigation and Statistics
6. 1. 1 Way of Investigation and People Investigated
Three ways were used:
1. Small scaled talks with participants from county goverments and deputies of the
County People's Congress related (Yanchi County and Tongxing county). Participants were
also from enterprises and businesses. Opinions and suggestions from different circles were
collected in the talks.
2. Consultance-investigation among personncl from local governments and village
conunittecs was conducted.
3. Individual,questionaire investigation among the masses by asking them to fill out the
questionaire forms was carried out.
6. 1. 2 Investigation Statistics and Analysis
More than 370 people were investigated. 319 forms were distributed with 291 copies
collected back. For their opinions and hopes, see Table 6-1, which shows that the public are
in favour of the project; most of them are not againt their resettlement; about 4%o of the
masses investigated hoped that the compensation for demolition and resettlement must be
arranged reasonably. Only 2. 4% of the persons investigated were reluctant to be removed or
to requisition their land. So, these people should be persuaded patienty to do so; about 11% 
of them were worried about traffic noise (people in or close to Xingren Town for example).
During operation phase, noise monitoring will be conducted in these areas.
Table 6-1'      Public Involvement qnd Investigation Statistics
if in favor of highway   attitude to land requisition  worried
people       construction         and resettlement    about
highway       ingated    Yes    no   no idea   yes    no   no idea  environ-
. ~ ~ ~ ~~~ YO ()   (%O)   (YO)   ( YO) _  (/)    (YO)    ment
Gu-Wang          79      100                   93. 6    5.1    1. 3
Yan-Xing         212     94.8  0.5    4.7    93.9   1.4    4.7       11%
6. 2  Major Issues and Settlement
1. Action plans for land requisition and resettlement will be worked out to ensure
individual interest and living conditions. Losses of land of enterprises shall be compensated
for, and to help them arrange production.
2. Engineering designers, after they heeded the opinions and suggestions, have revised
the engineering designs and construction management designs by adding grazing passages and
pedestian flyovers for Gu - Wang Highway; sidewalks at town sections for Yan - Xing
* 38 -



Highway; signs at crossings close to or at residential areas and schools; not taking farmland
for borrow sites etc.
3. A greater opening was chosen for Gu  Wang Highway to pass through the Great
Wall. The included angle of the route and the Wall was increased by adjusting the alignment;
cut of the Wall was reduced.
4. Requirements of sand-fixing and improvement of ecological environment were taken
into account in designing the subgrade protection forest belts.
5. Environmental monitoring will be monitored at densely populated areas to potect
environment.
6. Protection measures put forward by the masses will be carried out step by step in
design, construction and operation.
39 *



7 Environmental Protection Program and
Environmental Monitoring Program
7. 1 EP Program
7. 1. 1 Preliminary Stage
1. Viability study stage
See Table 7-1 for detail. Some work of this stage has begun or being carried out.
Table 7-1                 EP Program  of Viability Study Stage
highway             contents         institutions responsible     administration      implementation
entity               tune
State Planning
China Highway         Commission, MOC
project feasibility study    Consultance-          Communications
Gu-Wang                                Supervision CO. Ltd   Division & Planning         Feb. ,1995
Gu-Wang                                      ~~~~~~~~~~Commission of Ni  Feb  199
Yan-Xing                                                       State EP Bureaus EP        July,1998
EIA                Xian Highway        Office of MOC; Com.
University        Division & EP Office
of Ningxia
Note: Plannig Commission annd Communications Division ar: the adtninistrative entities of Yan-Xing Highway
2. Design Stage
The environmental protection program of design stage is shown in Table 7 - 2.
Requirements of EP in the table have been or will be carried out.
Table 7-2                      EP Program  of Design Stage
Drder        design itemns                  EP requirements           responsible   management implementatiof
entity      entity      time
Q avoiding envir. sensitive spots,
taking as less land as possible
1  route plane design             @)protecting cultural relics (Gu
Wang only)
taking less farmland
route  .    .      (4) minimizing borrow & spoil to
2  route longitudinal profile design  protect veyetation
3  de(ign of unall bridge   culvert   O)protecting irrigation works  Consult &
3design of small bridge & culvert    ensuring run-off unblockced  Supervision    Ningxia
Company   7ommunica  Feb. 1995
4  design of passages and paing      preventing traffic disruption    of China       tions
ovt facilitiesin                                                  Highwvay      Division   July,1998
Engineering    (NCD)
subgrade    protection    and                                    (CSCCHED)
revention from sol eroon       preventing soil erosion
S 5    std   Protection & dpreventing road damage by sand
2) planning of fidring sand &   Oditch water not go into canal
forest belts
@reducing effect on local road
6  desgn of borrow yards          Onot taking forest or farmland for
borrow sites
40*



Continued Table 7-2                 EP Program  of Design Stage
responsible   management implementation
orde -   design Items         EP requirements             entity       entity     time
plgntation design for right-of-  @subgrade protection
wsay    (lp                       restoration of forest land and
7   I)esubgrade sofpe                fixing sand
__   ivther side of road          @highway landscape                 EP design    Ningxia
(3-)divider (Gu-Wang)                           ~~~~~~institute    High class  July, 1999
8  forest belt design at sections of  Qprotecting subgrade from sand  or other    Highway
drifting sand                  @improving ecological environment    qualified  Adminis-  July, 2001
institution  tration
vegetation restoration design          . restoring  vegetation  damaged        Bureau
9  (03poil & borrow sites             during constction phase
Qtemporary land
yard wall design against noise for
10  schools for Yan-Xing Highway   (reducing noise by 5-8dB           EP design     NCD       after 2002
(DShitangou Primary School                                        institute
QHanjiaoshui High School
7. 1. 2 EP Program of Construction Stage
The program will be carried out according to Table 7-3. The measures in the table will
be included in the construction documents and be implemented.
Table 7-3   EP Program  of the Construction Stage (July,1998-July,2002)
responsible    administa-
highway   EP issues                EP measures                    entity       tion entity     remarks
noise      1. measures 1-4 of 5. 6. 1 part in 5. 6
air      2. measures of 5. 6. 2 part in 5. 6                         NCD
water                                                             Office of Chief
environmen   3. measures of 5. 6. 3 part in 5. 6                       Supervision
Gu-   niomn 
Wang   vegetation                                                           Stationing Office
soil deserti-  4. measures of 5. 6. 4 part in 5. 6                   of Gu-Wang
Yan-    fication    .                                                           Highway
Xing       land      5. measures of 5. 6. 5 part in 5. 6                    Stationing Office
resources                                                          tof YaniXing
local road    6. measures 1-4 of 5. 6. 6 part in 5. 6                  Highway          one
supervisor
safety     7. measures of 5. 6. 7 part in 5. 6      contractors                     each bid
ditto        section
Gu---    cultural                                                              excluding
Wang       relics     8. measures of 5. 6. 8 part in 5. 6                   Stationing Office
of Yan-Xing
._____    _Highway
9. the fifth measures of 5. 6. 1 part in                    NCD
noise        5. 6 for the sections with school                    Office of Chief
Yan-                     close to road                                         Supervision
Xing                                                                        Stationing Offic
local road    10. The fifth measure of 5. 6. 6 part in                Yan-Xing
5. 6 for Huianbao-Haojiaii Section                    Highway
41



7. 1. 3 EP Program of Operation Stage
See Table 7-4 for the program.
Table 7-4          EP Program  of Operation Stage (2002-2022)
environmental  highway             EP measures            implementa-  responsible  administra-
issues      h                                           tion time      unit        tive unit
1. yard  walls of first row
Gu--Wang       buildings at Guyaozi 6OmX    2nd stage
2. 5m
EP office
noise                 2. yard  walls at Shitangou   after            of NCD,
Yan~-Xing      Prim. School 300m X 3m       when 2002
g 3. yard walls at Hanjiaoshui   when Leq        Ningxia
School 500mX3m                 23dB       High Glass
Highway        NCD
4. septic tanks at toll stations   2002        Bureau
water     Gu-Wang
environment  Yan-Xing  5. solid garbage carried away in  2002-2022    Ningxia
cans                                        Highway
wind/sand                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bureau
wid/mgesand   Gu-Wang  6. for highway plantation see 8  2001-2003
desertification  Yan-Xing    -13 of Table 5-7
7. 2   Environment Monitoring Plan and Monitoring Instruments
7. 2. 1 Environment Monitoring Plan during Construction Stage
Monitoring items, factors, frequency and institutions for both highways are listed in
Table 7 - 5. Monitoring spots are at major sensitive spots, transport roads, quarries and
construction camps. For their locations, see Annex Fig. 1 and 2.
Table 7-5 Environment Monitoring Plan during Construction Stage
items
.       ~~~noise        ambient air..
highway                                        monitonng year          monitoring institutions
noise of site    dust     TSP
_________ boundary  __   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
Gu-Wang                                       J V  V  uly,1998-Dec. 2001
Yan-Xing       V                              July.1998-Dec.2002  1. noix & dust: supervisors of bid
1. noise,1 day monthly, 2^ -3 times a day or randomly  2. ur & TSP:Environmen Monitoring
frequency 8  2. dusts 1 time every 10 days or randomly              Station of Ningxia
ments   3. TSP: quarterly, 5 consecutive days, samples taken conforming
national standards
Notes. 1. "'/"stands for monitoring items (same as in the following tables)
2. 2 weeks prior to construction work, major sensitive spots and construction sites are chosen to
monitor the background levels of dust and TSP
3. Monitored results are reported to EP Bureau of Ningxia regularly.
* 42 -



7. 2. 2 Environment Monitoring Plan during Operation Stage
Monitoring items factors, locations, frequeney and institutions for both highways are
listed in Tables 7- 6, 7- 7. For monitoring places. see Attached Fig. I and 2. Monitoring
methods are in accord with the national standards and specifications.
Table 7-6               Monitoring Plan for Gu-Wang Highway
locations of monitoring places
^   item & frequency      Guyaozi          Gaoshawo      Wubao of Yanchi             remarks
K48+150          K90+200          K128+180
ambient      re _dtial                                                        1. Ningxia Envir. Monitoring
noise Leq      rea                                                               centre
(quarterly)      res2.  Monitored  results  are
(quambientearlv)  areported to Ningxia EP
ambient air  NO. ,CO TSP                                                            Bureau regularly
(twice a year                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3. Ambient airi 5 conseuctive
v                                 /             days; ambient noise: 1-2
tail grasn )  CO.CH TSP    interchanges                       interchanges       yght.   ( same   is  the
I ran o     _    toll statrons                       toll station     following tables)
Table 7-7               Monitoring Plan for Yan-Xing Highway
locations of monitoring places
item & frequency        Chengjiao   Xueyanzi   Xingmajia  Hanjiaoshui   Xingren          remarks
of Yanchi    village    hewang    Township       Town
K4+870   K86+600  K190+300 K209+550 K246+700
schools                                V                               1. Ningxia Envir.
ambient noise                                                                               Monitoring
L, (quarterly)    residential     s                                                           Centre
areas                                                                 2. Monitored results
are  reported  to
(twbicet air   NO. CO TSP                                                                  Ningxia      EP
(twice___a year)___                                                                         bureau regularly
monitoring year                               2002-2022
7. 2. 3 Environmental Monitoring Instrument
Instruments for environmental monitoring are shown in Table 7-8, which have been
included in procurement list of Ningxia Highway Projects.
Instrument List for Environmental Monitoring and
Table 7-8                           Their Estimated Cost
order           names     =model                       unit price    number         cot          remarksc
'10.000 yuan:   (unit)   '10,000 yuan,     ri
1       exhaust gas tester                             20. 0          1          20. 0         imported
2       acoustic level meter         HS5633             0. 6          9           5. 4        home made
collector                           0. 02
3       dust       _ors_ton                                           9          1.08         home made
balance   TN-100B,1G0g/10rmg    0. 10
total                                                             26.48
* 43 -



8 Environmental Institutions and Expenses Estimate
8. 1 Enviromental Institutions and Responsibilities
8. 1. 1 Construction Phase
See Fig. 8-1 for their institutions and responsibilies
General Supervisor' s Agency
A deputy chief stupervisor is
responsible for envir supervision;
An engineer is responsible for EP
Senior Incal Agency of                  Senior Local Agency of
Yan-Xing Highway;                        Gu-Wang Highway;
An engineer is                          An engineer is
responsible for EP                      responsible for EP
3 o         1. 1                   No. 5
Note: The supervisor of the bid section is responsible for both environmental monitoring and supervision.
Fig. 8-1  Environmental Protection Institition during the Construction Phase
The responsibilities of the personnel in Fig. 8-1 are as follows.
1. General Supervisor's Agency: A deputy chief supervisor is resporisible for the policy
decisions concerning EP as a leading role; an engineer is responsible for EP supervision,
implementation and collection of data. Their higher authority is Ningxia Communications
Division and its EP Office.
2. Local Agencies of Gu-Wang and Yan-Xing Highways: An engineer is responsible
for instruction of environmental monitoring and supervision of each bid section, and handling
EP matters.
3. Bid section: A supervisor is responsible for the whole process of environmental
supervision, in noise and dust monitoring, and implementation of the EP measures in bidding
documents and the Action Plan.
8. 1. 2 Operation Phase
See Fig. 8-2 for EP institutions.
The responsibilities in Fig. 8-2 are as follows:
1. EP office of NCD: responsible for highway EP management of the whole region with
Gu-Wang and Yan-Xing highways included by drawing up annual monitoring, EP plans,
regulations and policies.
2. Ningxia High Class Highway Bureau: A deputy director is responsible for EP of high-
* 44 -



class highways including Gu-Wang Highway. Highway Management Department under its
leadership is responsible for EP through a director-engineer, and in responsible for regular
environmental monitoring for NCD.
3. Ningxia Highway Administration Bureau: A deputy head is responsible for EP of
ordinary highways including Yan-Xing Highway and regular environmental monitoring for
EP Office of NCD.
NCD EP Office
(one director, two other
staff mumbers)
NJngxia Hghway                   Ningxia High- class
A inistration Bureau          Hghway Bureau (one deputy
(one -deputy head in             head in charge of EP)
charge of EP)                 head_In_charge_of_EP)
I                                  I
[an-Xing Highway               Highway 1bnagement Dept of
Gu-Wang Highway (one director
responsible for EP)
Gu-Wang Highway
Fig. 8-2 Environmental Protection Institutions during Operation Phase
8. 2 EP Personncl Training Program
The training program is shown in Table 8- 1. Both the administrative personnel and
workers have to have some EP knowledge.
Table 8-1                 EP Personnel Training Program
type of                    number of                cost
training      personncl       people  study time (10,000 yuan)    main traming contents
General                                      regulations,    policy     and
Supervisors       1         20                 specifications  of environmental
Agency                                       management
EP office of 
NCD, Personnel       3         15                regulations &  management of
home study     from NCD                              15. 00   environment
Management&
Management 3&      6        15                techniques   of   environmental
meronitorln      3-6        15                engineering and monitoring and
technicians                                   data processing
1. Environment
monitors of
construction                                  1. regulations and techniques of
EP training      phase                                           environmental supervision
courses    2. EP personnel     12         30       12. 00   2. regulations and techniques of
from  HCHB                                       environmental monitoring
&   Highway
Bureau
total                                             27. 00
* 45 -



8. 3 Cost Estimate for EP
The cost of EP of Ningxia Highway Projects includes the expenses on impact mitigation, monitoring,
instruments, training and others. See Table 8-2 for detail.
Table 8-2
Gu-Wang Highway Yan-Xing Highway
phase            EP measures                      cost                cost      funding     responsible    remarks
amnount (10v000)  amount        an        source       en0tity
1. EP design                                                                                  with EP
design      2. EP measures in engi-               20. 00              15. 00   preliminary  EP designer  measures
neering                                                            funds                   excluded
3. soil conservation                  S. 00               3.00
measures
4. water spraying in sites           20. 00               10. 00
5. sewage treatment           4       8. 00       S       10. 00
(septic tanks)
6. protection  of road-               5.00                3. 00
building materials
construction    7. mufflers for trucks               S. GO               3. 00    engineenng   contractor
8. clearing up of borrow
sites & temporary land 2549. Imu  12. 80   834. 4mu   4. 20
use__                      _ _ __                       _ _  _
9. repairing of local roads          50. 00               10. 00
10. safety  supervision,             25. 00              1S. 00
lamp marks
11. protection  of Great             10. 00
Wall
12. disposal of sewage and           15. 00              20. 00
garbage of toll stations
13. yard walls             150m2      3. 00    240Gm'   48.00 920
14. greening projects in  2970.5m   1188.20   800m       320.00   cot              NCD          4,000
operation        right-of-way                                                       ungency     HCHB        yuan/mu
I         -   funds       ~NHB
15. vegetation restoration  2549. lmu  76. 50   834. 4mu   25. 00
_________________                                                                    300
yuan/mu
16. subgrade forest belts   1747. 2mu  52.40  4654. 8mu  139.70
.
17. construction phase               1S. 00               15. 00    monitoring    supervisor    50,000
environmental      (3 yer)                                                           funds       uyn/yr
monitoring    18. operation phase                  100. 00             100.00  management  EP Office          50,000
(20 yers)                        10010.0                          funds       of NCD        yuan/yr
evieronviei     19. coeruction phase                 15. 00              15. 00      umpervin                   50,000 S O.X0
supervision                                                             ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~offrice  ya/r
20. construction phse                 15. 00              15. 00   management                   50.000
environmental  21. operation phase                   100.00              100. 00                  HCHB          Uan/yr.
management                                                                           .            NHB
22. EP faciity maintetiace           100. 00             100. 00      itnace
23. purhe cost                                                     instrument      NCD
instrtrment      (10,000 Yuan)                           26.48                      funds        NCD
24. traingcost                                                      training                   domestic
training        (10,000 yuan)                          27.00                       funds        NCD         training
total (10,000 yuan)                      2865. 28
* 46 -



9 Resettlement Action Plan
9. 1 Land Requisition and Amount of Resettlement
9. 1. 1 A Survey
This resettlemement action plan has been drawn up by the Consultance Centre of
Economics and Laws of Shanghai Social Academy, who carried out on-the-site survey in the
study area in June-July, 1997 along with NCD, HCHB, NHB and designers.
9.1. 2 Amount of Land Requisitioned and Housing Demolished
1. Amount of Land Requisitioned
See Table 9-1 wvhich shows little impact on farming.
Table 9-1                  Amount of Land Requisitioned
highway           type              unt   Lingwu    Yanchi   Tongxing   Haiyuan         tot 
highway  type           unit    ~~city     county    county    county        toa
permanent                  mu    1302.8    4801.1                             6103. 9
farmland     mu    193. 0    1626. 6                            1819. 6
non-farmland   mu    1109.8    3174.5                             4284. 3
temporary (deserted)    mu    206. 0       383. 1                           589. 1
population directly affected person    253    1062                             1315
Gu        enterprises affected    person   3          2                                5
Wang         villages affected   person      3         8                                11
farmland per mu
c-apita before   m!    5. 48      6. 10
Townships   requisition   person
affected   farmland per  mu/
person after  person   5.44      6. 06
I        ~~~requisition   peso
permanent                  mu                2318. 4    216. 8      64. 4     2599. 6
farmland     mu                493. 4      86.1       47. 8      627. 3
non-farmland   mu                1825. 0    130. 7      16. 6     1972. 3
temporary (deserted)    mu                 739. 8     47. 3      47. 3      834. 4
population directly affected person           639        114        151        904
Yan       enterprises affected   person                5                     3          8
Xing        villages affected    person                15         9          4         28
farmland per     /
capita before   mu                6. 09      5. 78      5.48
Townships   requisition   person
affected   farmland per  mu/
person after                     6. 08      S. 78      5. 48
requisition   person
* 47 -



2. Amount of demolition and resettlement
See Table 9-2 who shows small amount of demolition and resettlement: 20 households
with 96 people for Gu - Wang Highway; 30 households with 170 people for Yan - Xing
Highway.
Table 9-2             Amount of Demolition and Ressettlement
post &   soil &    low     yard    total
highway  impactsnr                                                       hus-    opla
highway       impact     ma(into)    pancl  timber   cost    wall  building   holds    tion
(m) (m2)    (mn2)    (in2)  area (m')
no demolition                               1         5       1          
Gu-  with partial impact                              17       25      17        1        5
Wang      demolished        24     1007      376     680      439     2087      20       96
no demolition
Yan-  with partial impact                             123     255      123       10       53
Xing      demolished       240     1679     710      424      589     3053      31      170
total             264     2686    1086    1244               5280      62      324
3. Enterprises Affected
The proposed project will not impact on enterprises much by demolishing only some low-
cost houses or yard walls. without moving. See Table 9-3 for detail.
Table 9-3                       Enterprises Affected
buildings demolished              total
post &, soil&,.yber  number of
highway  impact  paonso          snly                            buidi ng    num        people
(M) pancl   timber    cst wails          areafafecte
(   (M) 2)    (M2))    (m)    (m)       (in2)
Gun  ilo-movement   80       519               68       80       667         5          131
Wang      with                               ___
Yan-..    partial
Xing    impact      102      563               168     845       833         8         267
total         182      1082              236      925      1500        13         398
4. People affected by land-requisition & demolition
See Table 9-4.
Table 9-4                        Population Affected
direct effect by   direct effect by      enterprises     effect by readjust-
highway   land-requisition   demolition of houses     affected       ment of farmland  population
.  ~ ~ ~ ~     affected
households  population  households  population  enterprises   staff   households  population
Gu-Wang   254        1178       21       101        5        131      3138      14243    14316
Yan-Xing   107       538        41       223        8        267      3314      15885    16121
total    361       1716       62       324        13       398      6452      30128    30437
NotesPopulation affected are not recounted.
*48 .



9. 2 Resettlement Principles and Compensation Standards
9. 2. 1 Resettlement Principle
1. All- assets affected shall be compensated for at new  purchase price without any
depreciation.
2. Compensation fee are paid prior to requisition of land or assets.
3. Compensation standards are decided together with local governments and representives
of persons concerned.
4. All asset losers because of the project enjoy the equal right to receive compensation and
resettlement. They will enjoy better or original living standards before the project is finished.
9. 2. 2 Ways of Compensation
See Table 9-5 for detail.
Table 9-5            Ways of Compensation of Resettlement
kinds of                                                 executive In charge of
impact      receivers         compensation due             compensation &       remarks
resettlement
farmland          Cj)liand compensation
administrative()adcmnsto                       resettl ement offices
farml and  adiitrtv  (9resettlement al lowance             rstlmn  fie
villages   oeconimicfres towance           or county and townships
vii lges  econimic restoration
residents   Cjresettl ement compensation              village           in same
houses     affected   (economic restoration                committee           vllages
enterprises  enterprises  (iDresettlement compensation     resettlement offices
enterprises    affected    )economlc restoration     of county and townships  no movin
resettlement offices
other ground their owners    repurchase compensation      of county and townships
auxil iaries                                               (village committee)
9. 2. 3 Compensation Standards for Land Requisitioned
1. Land typical annual ontput value
The typical land output value per year is shown in Table 9-6.
Table 9-6                  Typical Annual Output Value
typical annual output value (yuan/muY=B
area                                              homestead    land of      deserted
puddy land    dry land    forest land   land      enterprises     land
Lingwu City        890         430          590          with reference to         50
______________                           type of adjacent land
Yanchi County       810         390          540          with reference to         so
_______________   _________    __________  _________   type   of  adjacent  of  land
Tongxin County      780          370                       with reference to        50
type of adjacent land
Haiyuan County            .      360                       with reference to
Haiyuan_County  3________ 0___                            type of adjacent land      so
2. Compensation standards of land requisition
See Table 9-7 for dotail
49



Table 9-7        Compensation Standards of I,and Requisitioned
resettlement    frln  s a
type of land   typical annual     compensation      compensation     farmland use tax
output value(B)     standards         standards         (yuan/mu)
puddy              B                6B                3B               2000
dry              B                 6B                3B                667
forest            B                 4B                                  667
homestead           B                 6B                _
of enterprises       B                 6B                _
deserted           B                 1B
9. 2. 4 Compensation Standards for Demolition
See Table 9-8 for detail.
Table 9-8           Compensation Standards for Demolition
Lingwu      Yanchi     Tongxin     Haiyuan
type                unit       City       County       County     County
mansonry            yuan/mr       270         250          -
post & panel         yuan/M2        230         220         -           210
soil & timber         yuan/m2       170         160         -           150
low-cost           yuan/mr        50          50          -           45
yard walls          yuan/m2        20          20          20          20
trees            yuan/each       55         50          45          45
resettlement allowance    yuan/Mr        5           5           5           5
Interim allowance       yuan/m2        5           5           5           5
9. 3 Institutions of Land Requisition and Housing Demolition
1. Working Institutioms
The following organizations have been formed to ensure better management and
cooperation of resettlement and demolition work.
* Leading group responsible for resettlement
* Project Office responsible for ressettlement
* County-level Office responsible for resettlement
* Township-level Office responsible for resettlement
2. Other Institutions
Other concerned institutions include:
* Regional Planning Commission
* Regional Communications Division
* Regional Land Administrative Bureau
* WB Loan Office of NCD
* High-class Highway Administrative Bureau
* Consultance Centre of Shanghai Social Academy in Economics, Laws and Society
* Administrative departments of communications and finance of counties and townships
* 50 s



concerned
* Administrative departments of land of town(ships) concerned
* Village committees concerned
9. 4   Cost of Land Requisition and Resettlement and Schedule
9. 4. 1 Cost Estimated
Total estimated cost for land requisition &. resettlement is as follows:
Gu-Wang Highway: 12,358,017 RMB yuan
Yan-Xing Highway: 5,971,621 RMB yuan
9. 4. 2 Schedule of Land Requisition and Resettlement
See Table 9-1 for detail
Table 9-9       Schedule for Land Requisition and Resettlement
time
code               1997                                    1998
6   7' 8   9 101112  1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9 10  aontl
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
K
L
M
N
0
Q
R
Notes: Codes of A-0 are the same as in the above table; those of P-R are:
P. demolition of existing houses & ground auxiliaries
Q. construction commences
R. independent monitoring assessment
*51



Appendix 1    Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia Highway Projects
environmental issues                       actions taken/to be taken                        responsible entity         remarks
A Design Phase
1. The alignment was chosen from several alternatives on the basis of
1. route                  taking less land, of reducing adverse impact of noise, air pollution
on residents by avoiding environmentally sensitive spots,
unfaverable ecological conditions and cultural relics
2. enough bridges and underpasses and flyovers have been designed for                          See 4. 1. 6
2. traffic disruption     grazing and local traffic                                                                     & 4. 1. 7
3. gentle subgrade slope: 1 s 4. 0 at drifting dune areas
4. subgrade protection works: mortar schist slope protection or squares
3. wind erosion/land    5. temporary or permanent drainage works to reduce impact on soil                               See 5. 2. 2
desertification         erosion or irrigation canals                                             NCD                  & 5. 2.4
6. dividers, plantation on slope & roadsides
*              .                  7. sufficient subgrade protection forest belts                     General Consultant &
ul       ________________                                                                             Supervision Company
8. Besides 1, quarries and borrow & spoil sites were properly chosen   of China Highway,
4. dust/air pollution      (lOOm beyond sensitive spots)
Ningxia
5. waterpollt9. sewage treatment at toll stations                              Highway Survey
S. water pollution      10. highway drainage to prevent runoff flow into canals (Yan-Xing)    Design Institute           See 5. 5
11. Besides 1, sufficient measures such as yard walls taken into                               See 5. 3. 1
6. noise                    account
12. no-horning signals at necessary spots (Yan-Xing)                                           & 5. 3. 2
7. flood                13. standards of bridges & culverts shall meet flood discharge
8. cultural relics      14. cultural relics protection measures taken properly (Gu-Wang)                               See 5. 1. 4
(Ming Wall)           1
15. sidewalks & signals of crossings provided at some places (Yan-                             See 4. 2. 7
9. safety                  Xing)



Appendix 1    Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia Highway Projects
environmental issues                       actions taken/to be taken                        responsible entity         remarks
B Construction phase
1. All applicable measures including spraying to reduce dust.
2. Mixing sites or storage sites shall be sprayed or covered and they
must 100m or more from sensitive spots.
1. dust/air pollution   3. Transportation vehicles of materials must be covered with mufflers.
As for powder materials. they shall be bagged or canned when
transported.
4. Asphalt mixing equipment will be located 300m leeward of
residential areas.
5. They shall be fitted with dust collection facilities.
6. Grass & bushes must be planted on slopes & along roadsides.
7. Damaged irrigation works shall be repaired.
8. Temporary drainage or irrigation canals shall be built where
necessary.
2. soil erosion/water   9. During construction of permanent drainage systems, all necessary
pollution               steps shall be taken to prevent earth & stones from silting up rivers,
water channels or existing irrigation and drainage systems.           contractors           supervisors
10. All reasonable measures shall be taken to prevent direct discharge
of polluted water from construction activities into rivers and
irrigation canals.
11. Adequate measures, such as provision of septic tanks or sewage
treatment facilities shall be taken at the construction camps.
3. construction camps       Sludge in sewage treatment pits shall be disposed of regularly.
12. Drinking water shall meet drinking water standards.
13. Garbage shall be collected in garbage cans on fixed places and
disposed of regularly.
14. Where residences are located within 200m from the construction
sites, noisy construction works shall be undertaken during the
daytime (6:00O22:O0)
4. noise                15. Construction activity time of heavy machines will be arranged with
the schools concerned to ensure normal teaching.
16. Maintenace of machines and trucks shall be strengthened so as to
keep them with low noise.



Appendix 1    Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia Highway Projects
environmental issues                        actions taken/to be taken                         responsible entity          remarks
.17. Forests shall not be used for material borrow sites.
18. Arable land shall not be selected as material borrow sites as much
as possible. If excavation has to be done in arable land, top soil
layer shall be saved and returned after construction work is
5. conservation of          completed so as to minimize impacts on ecosystem and agriculture.
ecological resources    9. Education of construction workers shall be strengthened to protect
natural resources, plants and shelter belts. Digging licorice shall be
forbidden.
20. Construction trucks shall be driven on the temporary roads so as to
avoid damage to farmland and forests.
21. Temporary land use shall be restored for plantantron.
22. In order to guarantee construction safety, safety guards shall be
posted, and efficient ligting equipment & safety signs shall be
6. safety                   installed.
23. During peak hours, to relieve traffic congestion, material transport
on                                    vehicles shall be reduced or stopped.
contractors            supervisors
24. Borrow is forbidden 80m within the Great Wall
25. Excavated soil is put on remains of the Wall and compacted
26. If cultural relics are found, the the local cultrual authority shall be
7. cultural relies          immediately informed of, and excavation shall be stopped until
identification is completed.
27. Worker are educated ro protect the Wall.
28. Local construction materials shall be used as much as' possible to
avoid long distance transportation, especially earth & stones.
29. Adequate actions to direct traffic shall be taken in consultation
8. traffic           vwith Communications & Public Security Dept. , when roads are
8. traffic                  jammed during the construction period.
transportation!        30. Plan for transportation of construction materials shall be developed
local roads               to avoid transport activities during hours of peak traffic.
31. Damaged local roads shall be repaired or compensated for.
32. If material transport vehicles use existing road, some temporary
roads shall be built up to reduce traffic jams.



Appendix 1    Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia Highway Projects
environmental issues                        actions taken/to be taken                        responsible entity         retnarks
C. Operation Phase
1. According to the monitoring decide the anti-noise measures for
sensitive buildings of over noise standard.                                                   See 5. 3
1. noise                 2. Development planning, housing  planning, at Hongsibao  in
particular, shall be developed in study area.
EP Office of NCD
3. By using proper techniques, on both sides of the road, sand-fixing
2. sand-erosion/land       shelter belts shall be planted to improve local ecosystem.       Highway Management
desertification        4. Vegetation shall be restored by using proper measures at borrow &Dept. of                 See Table 5-2
desertiicationspoil sites.                                                           Gu'-Wang Highway
5. Dlantation within right-of-way
Ningxia Highway
6. If vehicle noise & tail gas exceed the standards, it shall not be       Bureau
allowed to go on roads.
3. vehicle management   7. Tail gas testers are set up at toll stations of Gu-Wang Highway
8. Public awareness and education shall be promoted to familiarize
people  with  air pollution  and  noise by  vehicles &  related
cn                                   regulations.
9. The Public Security Department (PSD) shall be informed before
transport of hazardous materials is carried, especially with regard to
time routes and parking places of Vehicles to carry these materials.
The vehicles and drivers sholl be inspected. Experienced, qualified
drivers are required. Proper danger sign shall be painted on the     Ningxia Public
4. riskof leaage of vehicles.SeuiyDprmn
.azardous goolegs     10. Transport of hazardous material shall not be allowed during the  Security Department
hazardous goodstraffic peak time.NC
11. Hazardous materials shall not be transported  t6gether with            NCD
passengers, other goods or materials.
12. Signs shall be set up in thie environmentally sensitive areas such as
residential areas and water sonrces in order to warn drivers to pay
special attention.
13. No new houses are allowed to be built 50m within roadside, loomn
5. Others    ~ Iwithin school & hospitals (Gu-Wang Highway).                      iniaNCD
5. Others        14. Sufficient measures taken to prevent moving close to roads or doing  Ningxia  ghway Bureau
other harmful activities to the road.                                   government



Appendix 1    Key Elements for Environmental Action Plan for Ningxia Highway Projects
environmental issues                      actions taken/to be taken                      responsible entity        remarks
D. environmental monitoring
1. Construction phase,
(1)monitoring items: TSP, dust
(2)monitoring frequency,quarterly for TSP and 3 continuous days  TuSPNiervisor
each time.                                                      Mning
Dust, once every 3 days 10 days before constructionI once every  Station
1. ambient air               10 days after construction.
(3)monitoring place, construction site, material yards quarries and
main transportation roads.
2. Operation phase,
(1)monitoring items,NO.,CO and TSP
(2)monitoring frequency: twice a year, 5 days in succession a time;  Ningxia            reported to
(3)monitoring place, identified in Environmental Action Plan       Monitoring       Ningxia EP Bureau,
3. technical standards                                                 Station            Se Attached
Current monitoring methods for ambiemt air issued by the State                          Fig. 1 and 2
Environmental Protection Bureau                                                      for monitoring spots
1. monitoring frequency
(l)construction phase: 1 day a month with 2-3 times a day, or at
random;
(2)operation phase: quarterly with one time at daytime and the     suphase:
other at night or at random.                                    supervisor
2. noise               2. monitoring places                                               operation phase:
(D)construction phase: same as for air quality                  operationiphaseg
(2)operation phase; identified in Environmental Action Plan          Station
3. technical standards,
current monitoring  methods for noise issued  by  the  State
Environmental Protection Bureau.
1. testing itemss CO, HC (petrol vehicle); TSP (diesel vehicle)       EP Office
3. tailgas testing  2. testing frequency, at random                                         offiCe
3. testing place, toll stations of Gu-Wang Highway                    of NCD



Appendix 2
Yanchi County Government (Approval)
Document No 17 (1997)
An Approval of passing through the Great Wall
of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I Highway
To Cultural Bureau,
We have received your report for passing through the Great Wall of
Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I highway. Through careful consideration,
we agree to your plan and also make the following further directions:
1. The Great Wall section the Gu-Wang highway passes lies between
Shiliubao and Wubao, which belongs to the non-protection section.
2. Before the construction the protection area should be marked and
there should be protection signs.
3. During the construction, the project supervision unit should supervise
the construction work so as try to reduce the passing section. No increase of
it is allowed!
4. During the construction, no earth is allowed to be borrowed within
80m inside and outside the Great Wall.
Yanchi County Government
May 22,1997
Send to: Transportation Bureau
57 *



My Opinsions for Passing through
the Great wall of Gu-Wang Class I Highway
I'm a professional staff in Yanchi County Relics museum, in charge of
the county's relics protection and management. Invited by the relics
protection investigation group of Gu-Wang class I highway. I took part in
the investigation of relics protection along Gu-Wang Class I Highway.
This section of the Great Wall is called as Daobian, built in Ming
Dynasty (1531). It starts from the yellow River, enters Yanchi County at
Zhangjiabianhao and pass horizontally the north of the county town with a
total length of 97km. It is built of loess with the width of foundation of 8-
10m, the remaining height of 3-8m  and the top width of 1-3m. This
section of the Great Wall is under the county level protection. As to passing
through the Great Wall of the highway, my opionions are as follows:
1. It is proper for the highway to pass through the Great Wall at the
opening of Yangjiquan (K126+12). This section of the Great Wall suffers a
lot from wind erosion and collapse. The present remaining height of it is only
about 4m. No impact will be done for the protection work.
2. According to the protection work in sections, this section is non-
protection of the county level, Class I highway can pass through it.
3. In order to protect cultural relics effectively, the construction unit
should should try the best to reduce the passing section during the
construction.
A Professional Staff for Relics
Ren Yonggang
May 21.1997
58 -



Syggestions for Passing through the Great Wall
of Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class I Highway
To County Government,
After on-the-spot inspection for the Great Wall section Gu-Wang
Class I highway will pass by the experts made up of County Government,
County Relics Management Section and County Transportation Bureau, We
make the following suggestions.
1. This section of the Great Wall in Yanchi County was built in Ming
Dynasty. According to the document No 144 (1994 ) by the countv
government, the section of the Great Wall should be protected by the countv
and managed in sections.
2. The section from Shiliubao to Wabao suffers a lot from wind erosion.
It is non-protection, but the highway can pass through.
3. If there is need for the construct of the highway along the non -
protection section of the Great wall. it should get approved by the countv
government before the start of the constrction work.
4. During the construction, efforts should be made to reduce the passing
section. And no earth is allowed to be borrowed within 80m inside and
outside the Great Wall.
Yanchi Relics Management Section
May 21. 1997
59



A-..
Attac    Foute Trend  and  Envl"on'men  l Mo



.    ............ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~  &Z ..
-~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '         -
Spots Locations and Sensitive Spots and materials Distribution Along Gu  wang High.d



Attached  Figure 2A  Sensitive Spots Distribution a.
X                         f   i- I-- -- 
C.)i. G).                        a   .G.                                       -       * .,
.~~~.*** 4SXiUrw. onStun.                                             :-
-     -'_, - L_ -                              -        ,_                                         ' .



-iloring Spot Locations Along Yan -Xing Highway
1: 50000 --; __ w; - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ..... . -> 
1 :50000
_1-             -'    .: --   -  '                                      i3    Z$ts*s~~-  - -
i;   j  m- t   . .                                           @. @, @, +s~~~~~.  UUEasecu*.gzmzu
CA-..:\-^_S     
(D~~~~~..



WA~~~~~~ \\ .#4 -_,
oiseo moonito'Iog spol   -t p.eot nd during costrocton & -stc ko timeo  tooophik u,oaIto.ig spot at p,went and duting monrudin &  e
Attached  Figure 2B  Sensitive Spots Distribution ai



1: 50000
<- .
.s~~~~7
N,    ,.'           X'',                       1,'i              l    1 x       I         ',      
:t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
C-   ~~~~~~~~~~~'  r- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~4-~
tof sampling spot at present ..d during cons-ntdhntlo    ,sku time  m o.ilordg spot for toll ys or *utomobfles d.ri.g seI tme
Monitoring Spot Locati.ons Along Yan- Xing Highway
\  ~    .3   ~I
'N          -    x   '~~~~~~~~                         -VI  ~~~~~~oo 6



{Attached  Figure 2c  Sensitive Spots Distribution and 
-                                                              V..s,  fe Uq C   aS  ~ < > , A j T A   ;    t   A ,
~'''-'Ytmia I  _V
poise monitoring spot at prnt and during rnsdion str,et tb,n  alorherk r omItoring spot at p t and dauris totrtudtbin    I \J't tb:e
.   . . _   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



oring Spot Locations Along Yan-Xing Highway
'   ltitil,&X6XS                                      :  ;t    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',  <- - 
I  -100000                            i                K                       I
:  ^   ,,.   j',    i   '   .  '  ' A  i 
^ 0 1  *^    2     4 ;    '  ''   >;$<;1 _              i'  INEj,tllt5
I \' l                                                ,@    ,+tE,,  s=^
iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
4-L1   *..;2.P'       1(12t0o                               -0i-,     Rir-  -      r  u-mble  lri   'e,evtm
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~\                                           I
soil samp .ing  sot at  res  nt and during e lst de63on   set-ce lime
63 



0. 0.     tAsIQWAzalait
v~~~~"~~~~'   ~~~~~  /   /           /~~~~~~KO
v~~~~ 
-V~~~~~~~~~
/      C Zy  "   *-
A/4.,.p~~~~~"~~: ~~.                          1 100000
Attached Figure 2D Sensitive Spots Distribution a



.0.  1  ,    . P.
fds#                       l.   d  L-^ !1O   u_ e  I    
-X00$ :9.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R0
nitoring Spot'16it3, Ls Along Yan-Xing Highway
nitoring Spot Locations Along Yan-Xing Highwayl |--



K47+247.29       K50+000                                      K60+000
lump stone                                   gra el
,, 0.8.   _-,                        4000
o                                                     1
00
lzIiilI...II                      ~~~~~228141
^   lime   crashed stone            of  gravel
K91+000                    K100+000                             KllO+000
II                                                               I
lump stone    gravel
10800       160000   460000 170000          96000    90000    240000
38.2         40.2soil                        s       sil           i I  s    i   |oil4  sol
| I3.5 300000                              CD
ottche   Fiur                                    0itibto o                       fM
++                       +             +                      +
1357-300                            1900          1600      1000800
grave    crashed st0o0e
Atacie                      0iur             0 Ditrbtin0fM



000                           K80+000                           K90+000
33484
o            o                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qaniyo
+                            +
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orwn soi L 
)0                ~~~~~11971                       155397
d20+000                     Kl30+000                          K140+O00
f sand
lump stone   crashed stone
7=jP-(krn)
.~transport mnileage
to highway
-o        ~~~~0
E
0~~~~~
ials$Along Gu-Wang H
- ~  ~    ~ ~       -
jals~~~'R; Aln  Gu-an  Hi'' Eghwayrn



KO+000                  K20+000                   K40+000                   K60+01
L grni el                         grnvel   .        crashed stone -
10.7                                                          0. 6 
new construt
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~49.96
[: s 1gravel                        Slump st
1K125+000        K140+000                 K160+000                  K180+000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Attacled    Figure   4                 Disbgravel
-3 transpOrt mileage tO highway
t              *~~ Attached Figure 4  Distrib



K80+000                      K100+000                        K120+000
A. gruvel                    m p stone
+~~~~~
ection
lime                       ~~~~~~~crashed stone
K200+000                      K1220+000                       K240+000       K253+889.5
Crashed stone
pavement recapping section
c  crashed stone
on of Materials Along Yan-Xing Highway
66



