Report No. PID5289
Project Name                     China-Tri-Provincial I-Highway Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transportation
Poverty Category                 Program of Targeted Intervention
Project ID                       CNPE45788
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary                      Provincial Governments in Inner Mongolia,
Gansu and Ningxia
Implementing Agency              Communications Department of Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region
Mr. Hao Ji-ye (in charge of Project)
Tel. No. 86-471-696-8624
Mr. Wang Quan (contact person)
Tel. No. 86-471-696-8638 ext. 60280
Fax No. 86-471-696-7588
Gansu Provincial Communications Department
Mr. Xu Shuanlong, Director GPCD
No. 45, Huayingmen
Lanzhou City, Gansu Province 730030
People's Republic of China
Tel. No. 86-931-846-1216
Fax No. 86-931-846-4035 (office)
Fax No. 86-931-846-3861 (Planning Division)
Communications Department of Ningxia Hui
Autonomous Region
Mr. Chen Min-qiu, Director NPCD
No. 27, West North Ring, Road
Yinchuan City, Ningxia Province 750001
People's Republic of China
Tel. No. 86-951-503-2396
Fax No. 86-951-504-4965
Date of this PID Prepared        June 3, 1998
Date of the Initial PID
Prepared                         February 25, 1997
Appraisal Date                   April 14, 1998
Tentative Board Date             June 23, 1998
Project Cost/Financing   IBRD    US$230.0 million
Central Government       US$176.8 million
Provincial Government    US$251.9 million
Total costs     US$658.7 million



Country and Sector Background
1.      China's economic development since the opening of its economy in the late
1970s has resulted in a 9.5 percent average annual rate of economic growth.
Key facets of this growth are rapidly increasing domestic and foreign trade as
well as increasing personal mobility and consumption of energy (derived mainly
from coal burning). These, in turn, have caused the demand for transport and
higher quality transport services to surge. Supply capacity, however, is
constrained and recognized as one of the most serious bottlenecks to future
economic growth and efficiency. In particular, motorization (including use of
heavier trucks) is growing rapidly but road transport, due to historical
reasons, has not been widely developed in much of China outside its cities.
The road network ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic
area or population and is quite unsafe. Few expressways exist, and about 22
percent of rural communities have no all-weather vehicular access of any kind.
Governments at all levels have therefore embarked on a major highway
investment and improvement program.
2.      At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS) for the exclusive use of motorized vehicles. The
Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been developing the NTHS, consisting of
12 interprovincial trunk expressways spanning China and totaling some 35,000
km. The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial
sections of NTHS. At the provincial/regional level, the strategy is to
concentrate on network maintenance and the expansion and improvement of
provincial and rural road networks, currently totaling about 1.2 million km,
to provide greater mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development,
particularly in less developed regions.
3.      On the road transport policy agenda, growing attention is being paid to
removing administrative and physical barriers to interprovincial trade and to
a redefinition of government's role in transport in light of rapid
administrative decentralization and growing non-state sector involvement. MOC
needs to be strengthened to carry out its reformed mandate in matters such as
finance, standards for planning, design and operation of the NTHS. Provincial
and municipal governments are expected to continue to mobilize most investment
resources required (including access to private investment and capital
markets) and to seek greater expenditure and system efficiency through
improved highway planning- and investment strategies, as well as to modernize
maintenance capacity and improve cost recovery. Local governments are also
expected to further the development of the road user services and road
construction industry through deregulation and promotion of competition,
access to modem technology and better management. The Bank has prepared a
report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA-Highway Development and
Management Issues, Options and Strategies", and a report on "China Forward
with One Spirit: A Strategy for the Transport Sector" (No. 15959?CHA dated
April 23, 1998), which provides recommendations for action in the foregoing
areas which will form the basis for future Bank Group assistance in the
sector.
4.      Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia.   The three provinces of Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, Gansu and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region are land locked
interior provinces where the pace of development is below that in the coastal
and southern areas of China. The total population in these provinces amounted
to about 52.3 million (22.8 million in Inner Mongolia, 24.4 million in Gansu
-2 -



and 5.1 million in Ningxia) in 1995 or about 4.3w of the population of China.
The three provinces have a total area of about 1.69 million km2 (1.18 million
in Inner Mongolia, 0.45 million in Gansu and 0.06 million in Ningxia) or 17.7w
of the total for China. This means that these provinces had a much lower
population density than the national average which increases the cost of
investments in transport facilities. Agriculture/livestock/forestry and
mineral extraction are the main resources in these provinces. The gross
domestic product per capita in the three provinces is about 62t of the
national average. The three provinces had 7.2 million poor people (2.5
million in Inner Mongolia, 4.0 million in Gansu and 0.7 million in Ningxia) or
10t of the total poor population of China.   Lack of transport infrastructure
is one of the factors behind the depressed economic conditions in these
provinces.
5.      Traffic growth in the three provinces has been moderate compared to the
rest of China, but high compared to most other countries. Traffic volumes
reached their highest values near Hohhot He (capital of Inner Mongolia),
Lanzhou (capital of Gansu) and Yinchuan (capital Ningxia) and other main
cities. The road network in the three provinces totaled 88,500 km or about
7.79 of China's total.   Transport by highways accounts for about 809 of the
tons of freight moved and more than 95t of passengers transported and the
three provinces depend more on highways than the rest of the nation. The
civilian fleet amounted to about 422,000 vehicles in 1995, or 4. 1 of the
national fleet. Under the Ninth Five-Year Plan (9FYP: 1996-2000) the three
provinces will continue to give priority to expanding, maintaining, and
strengthening the highway network; strengthening the sector institutions and
training their labor force; and improving the efficiency of road user services
(trucking and passenger transport). However, limited financial resources
sharpen the need for better planning and prioritization of investments and for
ensuring that new and improved roads are not built at the expense of
maintaining the existing network.
6.      The Master Plan for Poor Areas (eighth 7-year Plan for Poverty
Alleviation 1994-2000 in each of the three provinces) has set as its goal to
provide year-round access to every poor township and 90-95 percent of the
villages. Availability of basic access through all-weather rural roads is
among the highest priorities in the poverty alleviation strategy of each of
the three provinces.
Project Objectives
7.      The objectives of the proposed project are to:    (a) provide efficient and
safe transport in one or two highway priority corridors in each of the three
provinces; (b) provide improved access to the poor areas in each of the three
provinces by supporting highway investments in county and village roads; (c)
promote development of institutional capacity through training and other
means, in planning, design, operations and maintenance of the highway network
in each of the three provinces; and (d) increase safety of road transport.
Project Description
8.      The proposed project would comprise:
(a)     construction of a new right-of-way or improvement of the following
major highways.
-3-



(i)     Inner Mongolia
(1)     National Highway 210: Baotou-Dongsheng Class 1 (4 lanes) Highway
(103 km)
(2)     National Highway 208: Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Class 2 Auto-Only (2
lanes) Highway (142 km)
(ii)    Gansu
(1)     Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway (4 lanes) (33.5 km)
(2)     Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Class 2 Auto-Only (2 lanes) Highway (64 km)
(iii)   Ningxia
(1)     Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Class 1 Highway (94 km)
(2)     Yanchi-Xingren Class 2 Highway (250.8 km)
(b)     Program of construction/improvement of rural roads of about 1,892 km
(836 km in Inner Mongolia, 803 km in Gansu, and 253 km in Ningxia) to help
alleviate poverty.
(c)     Institutional strengthening/training of agencies/institutions
involved in highway planning, design, supervision, construction, operation and
maintenance of highways. This involves the training of about 2,000 people for
about 2,130 person-months within China and abroad and the provision of modern
equipment.
(d)     Highway safety component: to help reduce accidents.   This component
consists of establishment of a coordination mechanism between the traffic
police and the provincial communications department; analyses of traffic
accidents; identification, design and implementation of a pilot accident black
spot program; development of highway safety manuals and safety audit
procedures; and evaluation of the highway safety program by an independent
local expert.
Project Cost and Financing
9.      The total project costs are about $658.7 million.    The Bank loan of about
$230 million would be onlent to the three provinces. The remainder of the
cost would be met through contributions from the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) and the Provinces.
Implementation
10.     Overall direction of the project at the central level rests with MOC.
Since all three provinces are first-time borrowers in the highway sector from
the Bank, MOC has assumed a major coordinating role among the three provinces
and has and would provide more than usual technical support. The
Communications Department in each of the three provinces would have overall
responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Each province has
established a special project execution office and supplied it with staff,
offices, and related equipment to ensure coordination among the concerned
agencies and to affect smooth preparation and implementation of the project.
The project would be implemented during 1998-2004.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
11.     The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China presented to the
Board in March 1997 as well as the CAS Progress Report presented to the Board
on May 28, 1998 support China's strategy to reduce poverty and to relieve
-4 -



infrastructure bottlenecks, by inter alia, rapidly modernizing and expanding
its highway system and providing adequate all-weather access to poor areas.
Also, the CAS supports China's efforts to direct more of its investments to
the interior provinces to help arrest the rising inequalities between the
prosperous coastal and southern provinces and the rest of the country. The
proposed project involves three interior and relatively poor provinces. It
helps reduce poverty through a program of rural highway improvements targeted
at the poor counties in each of the three provinces. In addition, the project
helps reduce infrastructure bottlenecks by increasing highway capacity through
the construction/improvement of major highways (most of them are important
sections of the NTHS) in key priority corridors in each province.
Furthermore, Bank assistance to NTHS construction should Facilitate
interprovincial trade and promote long-distance and transit road traffic,
which in turn would help arrest a growing regionalism while furthering the
liberalization, facilitation and cost reduction of transport, which are key
requirements for market-oriented reforms to succeed. The Bank support is also
justified by project assistance to institutional and manpower development of
the agencies involved in highway planning, design, construction, supervision,
operation and maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected to benefit the
design and the quality of construction of the roads to be undertaken (this has
been problematic in some other projects) as well as the traffic safety on
roads. The project would also foster improved practices in the areas of
environment and land acquisition and resettlement of affected people.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
12.     The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the preparation
and implementation of 19 highway projects in China, only seven of which have
been completed. While the overall performance of highway projects is by and
large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken
into consideration in the proposed project's design. The problems include:
quality of construction- late start of the design of traffic engineering
facilities (traffic monitoring, telecommunications, tolling and lighting)
which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated extension of
the closing date of Bank's loans, and the need for improved highway management
and operation, especially in the context of tolling of expressways. The
designs and bid documents for the main roads in the project are being reviewed
by international design engineers. The construction of the main highways will
be supervised by a joint foreign/local team which will be properly staffed and
equipped.
13.     There is also a growing concern that adequate funding for highway
maintenance is not now being generated to cover an expanding and more
expensive highway system. Previously, this was not an issue - adequate funds
were being, set aside for this purpose. The Bank missions had extensive
discussions with the three provinces on the highway maintenance issue and the
sources and uses of funds in their 9FYP for highways. Agreement was reached
on a program to monitor physical maintenance activities based on the existing
condition of the highway network and realistic annual targets for their future
conditions.
14.     Experience with rural highways in Africa and South Asia and with the
Bank's Shaanxi Highway and Henan Projects in China has shown that provision of
basic access through all-weather roads and provision of non-motorized means of
transport are contributing factors to reducing poverty in rural areas,
- 5 -



especially when combined with programs for socioeconomic development.
Ningxia, Gansu and Inner Mongolia, similar to the rest of China, have a good
record in this regard. The proposed project contains a RIPA component which
focuses on the lower level roads in the poorest counties in these provinces.
The formulation of this component as well as arrangements for its
implementation took into consideration experience with the RIPA component in
the Second Shaanxi and Second Henan Provincial Highway Projects and with the
"Road Improvement Program" in the Bank-financed highway projects in
Zhejiang, Guangdong and Henan provinces in China.
15.     Limited experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to
the difficulty of their implementation due to poor coordination between the
Traffic Police and the Highway Departments. This issue reflects a general
difficulty with inter-departmental coordination in China. A Leading Group for
coordination together with a Technical Secretariat will be established in each
province to ensure better coordination in this area.
16.     Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has generally
been satisfactory. However, the Bank must make its requirements well known to
the Chinese agencies at an early stage in the preparation of the project.
Also, the Legal Department should be brought on board early in the project
preparation. A Bank resettlement specialist and a social scientist were
involved from the beginning in project preparation. The resettlement action
plans for the proposed project will be reviewed by the Legal Department before
appraisal of the project. Experience in the environmental area in China has
generally been favorable. A Bank environmental specialist was involved from
the beginning in project preparation. However, more attention should be paid
to environmental supervision during construction and to training of personnel.
The proposed project will provided an adequate institutional setup and
training for such environmental supervision.
Environmental Aspects
17.     The project is a category "A" from an environmental point of view.
Environmental impact assessments (EIA) and Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
were carried out for the main roads included under the project. A sectoral
approach was followed in preparing the environmental documents for the
first-year package of RIPA. Major environmental impacts include noise and air
pollution during construction and operation; alteration of hydrological
regimes, soil erosion and impacts on local ecology during construction;
impacts on cultural relics; and transportation of construction materials
during construction. The documents were made public locally by the provincial
Communications Department in each province. Following receipt of letters of
agreement from the three provinces, those documents were sent to the PIC.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects
18.     The project will require land acquisition and resettlement.    Draft
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS) for the main roads and for the roads in the
first-year package of RIPA included in the project were submitted to the Bank
and have generally been found satisfactory. Efforts were made during project
preparation to minimize land acquisition and resettlement through
modifications in highway alignments and designs. Three of the main roads pass
through areas of significant minority populations. Socio-economic surveys in
- 6 -



accordance with Bank approved terms-of-reference were carried out in November
1997 by a qualified Chinese consulting firm assisted by an international
social scientist. These surveys showed that there are no major problems
specifically related to ethnic minority issues.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 7 -



