Page  1
February 1, 2001
Mr. Ju Kuilin
Deputy Director General
International Department,
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Dear Sir:
CHINA: Tri-Provincial Project (LN 4356-CHA)
Admendment to Loan Agreement
I refer to the Loan Agreement between People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) dated December 18, 1998 for the above-captioned Project (the Loan 
Agreement).  I also refer to the letter dated December 4, 2000 from yourself 
on behalf of the Borrower, requesting the Bank’s concurrence with the proposal 
from Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (Ningxia) to modify Ningxia’s Respective 
Part of the Project and upgrade the design of the road between Guyaozi and 
Wangquanliang in Ningxia to an expressway standard.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to the proposal 
from Ningxia to modify Ningxia’s Respective Part of the Project and, to give 
effect to such modification, to the following amendments to the Loan Agreement 
set forth below.
1.
Section 1.02 (h) of the Loan Agreement is amended by deletion of the 
word "Highway" and replacing it with the word "Expressway" so that said 
Section reads as follows:
"(h)
"Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Expressway" means the expressway between 
Guyaozi and Wangquanliang in Ningxia to be constructed under Part C.1 of 
the Project."
and wherever the expression "Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway" appears in the 
Loan Agreement, it is understood to mean "Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Expressway".
2.
Paragraph 1 of Part C of Schedule 2, Description of the Project, is 
amended to read as follows:
"1.
Main Highways
(a)
Construction of a four-lane expressway between Guyaozi and 
Wangquanliang (the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Expressway) consisting of: (i) 
a segment of approximately 68 km between Guyaozi and Wangjiquan; (ii) a 
segment of approximately 26 km between Wangjiquan and Wangquanliang; and 
(iii) about 6.7 km of linking roads at interchanges along the 
Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Expressway;
(b)
Construction of an ordinary Class 2 highway of about 250 km 
from Yanchi to Xingren in Ningxia (the Yanchi-Xingren Highway); and
(c)
Supply and installation of electronic, electrical and 
mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, 
telecommunications and lighting, and construction of service areas, toll 
stations and administration and management buildings for said Expressway 
and Highway."
Page  2
3.
Category (3) in the Table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, Withdrawal of 
the Proceeds of the Loan, is amended as follows:
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
in Dollar Equivalent)
% of 
Expenditures to be
Financed
      […..]
(3) Ningxia Hui 
Autonomous Region
     (a)  Civil Works 
under Part C.1 of the 
Project, other than 
Part C.1(a)(ii)
            33,700,000
37%
     (b)  Supply and 
installation of 
equipment under Part 
C.1 of the Project
4,900,000
75%
     (c)  Goods under 
Part C of the Project
2,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
75% of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
      (d)  Consultants’ 
services and training 
under Part C of the 
Project
2,800,000
100%
     (e)  Unallocated 
for Part C of the 
Project
6,000,000
Except as specifically amended by the provisions paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 
above, all terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement otherwise remain in full 
force and effect.  All terms not otherwise defined in this letter of amendment 
have the respective meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Please indicate your agreement with the terms of this letter of 
amendment by countersigning and dating the form of confirmation below and 
returning one signed original copy of this letter for our files.  This letter 
of amendment shall enter into effect as of the date hereof upon our receipt of 
a copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by an authorized 
representative of the Borrower.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
Page  3
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao________
       Authorized Representative
Director-General, International Department, MOF
Date: February 5, 2001
