Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4356-CHA
Project Agreement
(Tri-Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
GANSU PROVINCE
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated December 18, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4356-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION (Inner 
Mongolia), GANSU PROVINCE (Gansu) and NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION (Ningxia), (Inner 
Mongolia, Gansu and Ningxia hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project 
Provinces, and individually as a Project Province).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred thirty million 
Dollars ($230,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS  the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the concerned Project Province shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and said Project Province, 
a plan for the future operation of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by said Project Province of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
Page  3
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of said financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Project Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region:
The People’s Government of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
No.1 Xinhua Street, Huhhot
Inner Mongolia
People’s Republic of China
For Gansu Province:
Page  4
Gansu Provincial Government
No.1, Zhongyangguanchang, Lanzhou
Gansu Province
People’s Republic of China
For Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region:
The People’s Government of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
Jie Fang Road, Yinchuan City 750001
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province, may be taken or executed by the Vice Governor of said Project Province or 
such other person or persons as said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and 
said Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/  Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
GANSU PROVINCE
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION 
/s/  Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  5
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors (other than goods manufactured in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower and works carried out by 
contractors from said region).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C,  works estimated to cost less 
than $3,500,000 equivalent per contract, as well as works for the construction of the 
1.3 km Tianshuilu linking road to the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway under Part B.2(b) of 
the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $34,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Works related to the installation of electric power to be used along the 
Baotou-Dongsheng Highway, the Guyaozi-Wangqualiang Highway and the Liugouhe-Zhonghe 
Expressway, undertaken by the local electricity companies and costing $2,400,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) works estimated to cost $2,000,000 
equivalent or more; (b) goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more; and (c) 
supply and installation of electronic, electric and mechanical equipment required for 
tolling, telecommunications, and traffic monitoring systems, regardless of cost, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  6
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services related to road safety under Parts A.4, B.4 and C.4 of the Project and, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, other tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000  or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
 Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
implement its Respective EAP and its Respective RAP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in paragraph (a) 
above to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
In respect of Parts A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the Project:
(a)
each Project Province shall, prior to commencing construction on a RIPA 
Sub-project: 
(i) 
in the event that such RIPA Sub-project shall involve the 
involuntary 
resettlement of persons, ensure that all such persons 
shall be resettled in 
accordance with a resettlement action plan for 
such RIPA Sub-project approved 
by the Bank, which shall have been 
designed on the basis of  the policies, 
planning principles, 
institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable 
to the Bank 
and set out in its Respective RAP, so as to improve the living 
standards and production levels of such persons;
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank an environmental action plan for such RIPA 
Sub-project 
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared in accordance with 
basic policies, planning 
principles and institutional arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
thereafter, carry out such 
environmental action plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; and
(b)
for any RIPA Sub-project which involves new road construction, or 
substantial widening, or land acquisition, or special areas such as national parks, 
natural reserves and areas of significant cultural heritage, each Project Province 
shall furnish to the Bank an environmental impact assessment satisfactory to the Bank 
in addition to the environmental action plan referred to in paragraph (a)(ii) above.
3.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of its Respective EAP and its Respective RAP, and the environmental 
action plans and resettlement action plans in respect of the RIPA Sub-projects; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank:
(i)
not later than February 28 of each year starting 2000 and ending 
2007, an 
annual environmental monitoring report for the 
previous calendar year, 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section 3; and 
(ii)
within two months of each December 31 and June 30, starting 
December 31, 1998 
and until completion of all land acquisition and 
resettlement under the 
Project, internal monitoring reports 
prepared by appropriate agencies of the 
relevant Project Province, 
Page  8
and within four months  of each December 31 and 
June 30, 
starting December 31, 1998 and until completion of all land 
acquisition and resettlement under the Project, external monitoring reports 
prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank, regarding the 
implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the six 
month 
period ending on said December 31 or June 30.
Part B:
RIPA Sub-projects
1.
Each Project Province shall select RIPA Sub-projects on the basis of technical 
and socioeconomic criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Each Project Province shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval, by 
June 30 of each year starting 1999, an annual work plan and budget for the RIPA 
Sub-projects proposed to be implemented during the following year, such annual work 
plan to include, inter alia:
(a)
all RIPA Sub-projects proposed for the year;
(b)
an economic and social benefit analysis using indicators acceptable to 
the Bank;
(c)
an implementation and supervision schedule;
(d)
a maintenance plan; and
(e)
the resettlement action plan, the environmental action plan and, as the 
case may be, the environmental impact assessment required in respect of each proposed 
RIPA Sub-project pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of Part A of this Schedule, 
all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Part C:
Main Highways
1.
Gansu shall take all necessary steps to ensure that design and construction of 
the 1.8 kilometer extension to the south of the Tianshuilu linking road to the 
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway designed to connect with the existing street network of 
the city of Lanzhou is carried out in a fashion satisfactory to the Bank and completed 
no later than November 1, 2002, simultaneously with completion of construction of the 
Liugouhe-Zhonge Expressway.
2.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
by February 1, 2001 in the case of Inner Mongolia and Ningxia, and by 
February 1, 2002 in the case of Gansu, complete, in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and taking account of the results of studies on highway 
operation and maintenance conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in 
China and of experience in the relevant Project Province and other parts of China, a 
study on the operation and maintenance of high-grade highways and furnish said study 
to the Bank for review; and
(b)
thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of 
said study, taking into consideration the comments thereon of the Bank.
3.
Each Project Province shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by 
the dates set out below, an analysis and recommendation of the structure of 
toll-rates, taking into consideration the results of studies on toll-rate structures 
conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience with 
toll-rates on major roads in the relevant Project Province and other parts of China:
(a)
in the case of Inner Mongolia, not later than February 1, 2001 for the 
Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway, and not later than February 1, 2002 for the 
Baotou-Dongsheng Highway;
(b)
in the case of Gansu, not later than February 1, 2002 for the 
Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway and the Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway; and
(c)
in the case of Ningxia, not later than February 1, 2001 for the 
Page  9
Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway.
Part D:
Maintenance of Highway Network
1.
Each Project Province shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by 
April 30 of each year from 1999 until 2006, an annual highway maintenance report, 
which shall:
(a)
indicate the length and condition of each class of road;
(b)
establish realistic targets for the following year including an estimate 
of the required physical works by class thereof and the costs thereof; and
(c)
measure the results and the actual expenditures of the past year against 
the targets and the budgeted funds therefor.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.
Each Project Province shall: 
(a)
carry out the training under its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
to that end, furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by May 31 of 
each year commencing in 1999, a  training implementation schedule for the next two 
years.
Part F: 
Road Safety Program
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain:
(a)
a Leading Group, which shall include representatives from the relevant 
provincial communications department and from the provincial traffic police 
responsible for traffic safety coordination, policy-making and planning, and which 
shall be assisted by a Traffic Safety Secretariat; and
(b)
a Road Safety Unit within the relevant provincial communications 
department, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to:
(i)
carry out the pilot black spot improvement program described in 
paragraph 2 
(c) below; and
(ii)
in the case of Gansu, develop improved safety audit procedures.
2.
Each Project Province shall, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank:
(a)
by March 15, 2000, complete a study of the factors contributing to 
traffic accidents;
(b)
by December 31, 2001, complete the preparation of its respective section 
of a traffic safety manual (of which the highway design manual component shall be 
prepared by Inner Mongolia, the highway maintenance safety manual component shall be 
prepared by Gansu and the highway construction safety manual component shall be 
prepared by Ningxia); 
(c)
by December 31, 2002, complete a black spot identification and 
improvement program; and
(d)
by September 30, 2003, have an expert, whose qualifications and 
experience shall be acceptable to the Bank, prepare an evaluation of its Road Safety 
Program according to indicators acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Inner Mongolia shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 2000, complete and furnish to the Bank a 
study, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the 
Page  10
effect of highway design features on highway safety; and
(b)
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, 
taking into consideration the comments thereon of the Bank.
4.
Gansu shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 2002, complete and furnish to the Bank a 
report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on 
traffic safety audit procedures; and
(b)
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, 
taking into consideration the comments thereon of the Bank.
Part G: 
Reporting and Monitoring
Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions:
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
2.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank:
(i)
within one month of the end of each calendar quarter, commencing 
in the first 
quarter of 1999, a quarterly report; and
(ii)
by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000, an annual report, 
integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to 
Section 1 of  Part G of this Schedule, 
on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project during the period preceding 
the dates of such 
reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; 
and
(b)
review with the Bank, not later than May 31 of each year, the reports 
referred to in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 2, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
