Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4356-CHA
Loan Agreement
(Tri-Provincial Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4356-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 18, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Project Provinces with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to each Project Province the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement:
(a)  
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural or 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all persons who qualify 
as an Affected Person.  
(b)
“Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway” means the highway between Baiyinchagan 
and Fengzhen in Inner Mongolia to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project.
(c)
“Baotou-Dongsheng Highway” means the highway between Baotou and Dongsheng 
in Inner Mongolia to be constructed under Part A.1  of the Project. 
(d) 
 “Gansu” means the Borrower’s Province of Gansu. 
(e)
“Gansu EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan for the Liugouhe-Zhonghe 
and Xujiamo-Gulang sections of the National Trunk Road 312 in Gansu Province, prepared 
by the Project Office of Gansu Provincial Communications Department and dated December 
1997, which sets out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures.
(f)
“Gansu RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the Liugouhe-Zhonghe 
and Xujiamo-Jiepaicun sections of the National Trunk Road 312 in Gansu Province, 
prepared by the Project Office of Gansu Provincial Communications Department and dated 
May 1998, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan.
(g)
“Gansu Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement.
(h)
“Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway” means the highway between Guyaozi and 
Wangquanliang in Ningxia to be constructed under Part C.1  of the Project.
(i) 
“Inner Mongolia” means the Borrower’s Autonomous Region of Inner 
Mongolia.
(j)
“Inner Mongolia EAPs” means, collectively: (i) the Environmental Action 
Plan for the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen section of National Road Route 208; and (ii) the 
Environmental Action Plan for the Baotou-Dongsheng section of National Road Route 210, 
each prepared by the Communications Department of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and 
dated December 1997, which set out environmental protection measures as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures, and “Inner Mongolia EAP” means either of the Inner Mongolia EAPs.
(k)
“Inner Mongolia RAP” means, collectively: (i) the Resettlement Action 
Plan for the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen section of National Road Route 208; and (ii) the 
Resettlement Action Plan for the Baotou-Dongsheng section of National Road Route 210, 
each prepared by the Communications Department of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and 
dated December 1997, which set out the procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plans, and “Inner Mongolia RAP” means either of the Inner 
Mongolia RAPs.
Page  3
(l)
“Inner Mongolia Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
(m)
“Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway” means the expressway between Liugouhe and 
Zhonghe in Gansu to be constructed under Part B.1  of the Project.
(n) 
 “Ningxia” means the Borrower’s Autonomous Region of Ningxia Hui. 
(o)
“Ningxia EAPs” means, collectively:  (i) the Environmental Action Plan 
for the Guyaozi-Wangquangliang Highway; and (ii) the Environmental Action Plan for the 
Yangchi-Xingren Highway, each dated December 1997, which set out environmental 
protection measures as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said measures, and “Ningxia EAP” means either of the Ningxia 
EAPs.
(p)
“Ningxia RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for 
Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway Project, and the Resettlement Action Plan for 
Yanchi-Xingren Highway Project, both dated December 1997, which set out the procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, and “Ningxia RAP” means 
either of the Ningxia RAPs.
(q)
“Ningxia Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (iii) of this Agreement.
(r)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(s)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Inner Mongolia, Gansu and 
Ningxia; and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces.  
(t)
“Respective EAP” means, in respect of: (i) Inner Mongolia, the Inner 
Mongolia EAPs; (ii) Gansu, the Gansu EAP; and (iii) Ningxia, the Ningxia EAPs.
(u)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of: (i) Inner 
Mongolia, Part A of the Project; (ii) Gansu, Part B of the Project; and (iii) Ningxia, 
Part C of the Project.
(v)
“Respective Proceeds of the Loan” means, in respect of:  (i) Inner 
Mongolia, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1; (ii) 
Gansu, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 2; and (iii) 
Ningxia, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 3, as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(w)
“Respective RAP” means, in respect of: (i) Inner Mongolia, the Inner 
Mongolia RAP; (ii) Gansu, the Gansu RAP; and (iii) Ningxia, the Ningxia RAP.
(x) 
“RIPA Sub-project” means a specific investment project for the 
rehabilitation or construction of a rural road segment selected for financing under 
Part A.2, Part B.2 or Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with Part B of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement.
(y)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Inner Mongolia Special 
Account, the Gansu Special Account and the Ningxia Special Account; and “Special 
Account” means any of the Special Accounts.
(z)
“Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway” means the highway between Xujiamo and 
Jiepaicun in Gansu to be constructed under Part B.1  of the Project. 
(aa)
“Yanchi-Xingren Highway” means the highway between Yanchi and  Xingren in 
Ningxia to be constructed under Part C.1  of the Project. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
thirty million Dollars ($230,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars the following three special deposit accounts, each in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment: 
(i)
one for purposes of Part A of the Project (the Inner Mongolia 
Special Account); 
(ii)
one for purposes of Part B of the Project (the Gansu Special 
Account); and 
(iii)
one for purposes of Part C of the Project (the Ningxia Special 
Account). 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter and, after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
Page  5
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each Project Province to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of said Project Province therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each 
Project Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its Respective 
Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be the amount 
withdrawn from the 
Loan Account or paid out of the  respective Special 
Account, on account of the 
cost of goods, works and services 
required for such Project Province’s 
Respective Part of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan;
(ii)
each Project Province shall repay the principal amount so made 
available to it 
over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of five (5) 
years; and
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge each Project Province:
(A)
interest on the principal amount so made available and 
withdrawn and 
remaining unpaid from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement; 
and
(B)
a commitment charge on the principal amount so made 
available and not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon such 
Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
/s/  Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
/s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region
(a)  Civil works under
Part A.1 of the Project
   63,000,000            
 38%
(b)
Supply and installation of
equipment under Part A.1
of the Project
    1,700,000
75%
(c)
Goods under Part A of
100% of foreign expendi-
the Project
    2,300,000
tures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(d)
Consultants’ services and
training under Part A of                                                    
the Project
    3,400,000
100%
(e)
Unallocated for Part A of
the Project
    9,600,000
(2)
Gansu Province
(a)
Civil works under Part 73,700,000
49%
B.1 of the Project
(b)
Supply and installation of
equipment under
Part B.1 of the Project
    4,100,000
75%
(c)
Goods under Part B of the
100% of foreign expen-
Project
    7,400,000
ditures and 100% of 
local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and
75% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(d)
Consultants’ services and
training under Part B of
the Project
    2,800,000
100%
(e)
Unallocated for Part B
of the Project
   12,000,000
Page  9
(3)
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
(a)
Civil works under Part 
C.1 of the Project
   37,700,000               37%
(b)
Supply and installation of
equipment under Part C.1 of 
the Project
      900,000
75%
(c)
Goods under Part C of
100% of foreign expen-
the Project
    2,600,000
ditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(d)
Consultants’ services and
training under Part C of
the Project
    2,800,000
100%
(e)
Unallocated for Part C of
the Project
    6,000,000
   __________
TOTAL:
  230,000,000
  ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from that region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 
equivalent; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent respectively; and (d) 
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and the Project 
Provinces: (a) to increase the efficiency and safety of traffic in highway priority 
corridors in order to facilitate faster socio-economic development; (b) to provide 
improved access to targeted poor counties;  (c) to improve highway sector 
institutional capacity;  and (d) to improve the safety of road transport.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as  the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
1.
Main Highways
Page  10
Construction of:  (i) a highway of about 103 kilometers (km) between Baotou and 
Dongsheng (the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway), of which 92 km are a four-lane Class 1 
highway and 11 km are a two-lane highway, and about 14 km of linking roads at 
interchanges along the Baotou-Dongsheng Highway;  and (ii) a two-lane Class 2 highway 
of about 142 km from Baiyinchagan to Fengzhen (the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway) and 
about 5 km of linking roads along the Baiyinchagan-Fengzhen Highway; including the 
supply and installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll 
collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and the construction 
of service areas, toll stations and administration and management buildings.
2.
Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
Carrying out of specific investment projects for the rehabilitation and 
construction of about 840 km of rural road segments to provide improved access to 
targeted poor counties in Inner Mongolia.
3.
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening the capacity of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 
Communications Department and its affiliated institutions in the areas of highway 
planning, design, supervision of highway construction, highway and equipment 
maintenance, financial management, operations and management of highways, traffic 
engineering and related matters through the provision of training, consultants’ 
services and equipment.
4.
Road Safety
 Implementation and evaluation of a program for road safety improvement in Inner 
Mongolia, through provision of equipment and consultants’ services, such program 
consisting of:
(a)
improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different 
responsible institutions;
(b)
enhancement of the capacity of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 
Communications Department to analyze traffic accidents in order  to determine the main 
causes of accidents and identify priority measures for preventive action, and carrying 
out of a study of the effects of different highway design features on highway 
accidents;
(c)
identification, design and carrying out of a pilot program for 
improvement of accident black spots; and
(d)
development of a highway design safety manual.
5.
Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Part B:
 Gansu Province
1.
Main Highways
Construction of:  (i) a four-lane expressway of about 34 km between Liugouhe and 
Zhonghe (the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway) to serve as a by-pass for the city of 
Lanzhou, and a linking road of about 1.3 km between the Liugouhe-Zhonghe Expressway 
and the street network of the city of Lanzhou; and (ii) a two-lane Class 2 highway of 
about 64 km from Xujiamo to Jiepaicun (the Xujiamo-Jiepaicun Highway); including the 
supply and installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll 
collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and the construction 
of service areas, toll stations and administration and management buildings.
2. 
Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
Carrying out of specific investment projects for the rehabilitation and 
Page  11
construction of about 800 km of rural road segments to provide improved access to 
targeted poor counties in Gansu Province.
3.
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening the capacity of Gansu Provincial Communications Department and its 
affiliated institutions in the areas of highway planning, design, supervision of 
highway construction, highway and equipment maintenance, financial management, 
operations and management of highways, traffic engineering and related matters through 
the provision of training, consultants’ services and equipment.
4. Road 
Safety
Implementation and evaluation of a program for road safety improvement in Gansu, 
through provision of equipment and consultants’ services, such program consisting of:
(a)
improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different 
responsible institutions;
(b)
enhancement of the capacity of Gansu Provincial Communications Department 
to analyze traffic accidents in order  to determine the main causes of accidents and 
identify priority measures for preventive action;
(c)
identification, design and carrying out of a pilot program for 
improvement of accident black spots;
(d)
development of a highway maintenance safety manual; and
(e) 
development of improved safety audit procedures for highways.
5.
Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Part C: 
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
1.
Main Highways
(a)
Construction of:  (i) a highway of about 94 km between Guyaozi and 
Wangquanliang (the Guyaozi-Wangquanliang Highway) of which about 83 km between Guyaozi 
and Yanchi provide two lanes for traffic movement on a four-lane Class 1 subgrade and 
about 11 km between Yanchi and Wangquanliang are a two-lane Class 2 highway, and about 
6.7 km of linking roads at interchanges along the Guyaozi-Wangqanliang Highway; and 
(ii) an Ordinary  Class 2 highway of about 250 km from Yanchi to Xingren in Gansu 
Province (the Yanchi-Xingren Highway); including the supply and installation of 
electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic 
monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and the construction of service areas, 
toll stations and administration and management buildings.
2. 
Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
Carrying out of specific investment projects for the rehabilitation and 
construction of about 250 km of rural road segments to provide improved access to 
targeted poor counties in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.
3.
Institutional Strengthening 
Strengthening the capacity of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region Communications 
Department and its affiliated institutions in the areas of highway planning, design, 
supervision of highway construction, highway and equipment maintenance, financial 
management, operations and management of highways, traffic engineering and related 
matters through the provision of training, consultants’ services and equipment.
4. Road 
Safety
Implementation and evaluation of a program for road safety improvement  in 
Page  12
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, through provision of equipment and consultants’ 
services, such program consisting of:
(a)
improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different 
responsible institutions;
(b)
enhancement of the capacity of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 
Communications Department to analyze traffic accidents in order  to determine the main 
causes of accidents and identify priority measures for preventive action;
(c)
identification, design and carrying out of a pilot program for 
improvement of accident black spots; and
(d)
 development of a highway construction manual.
5.
Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project.
*      *      *      *      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due  
(Expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2004
4,870,000
September 15, 2004
5,015,000
March 15, 2005
5,160,000
September 15, 2005
5,315,000
March 15, 2006
5,470,000
September 15, 2006
5,635,000
March 15, 2007
5,800,000
September 15, 2007
5,970,000
March 15, 2008
6,145,000
September 15, 2008
6,330,000
March 15, 2009
6,515,000
September 15, 2009
6,710,000
March 15, 2010
6,905,000
September 15, 2010
7,110,000
March 15, 2011
7,320,000
September 15, 2011
7,535,000
March 15, 2012
7,760,000
September 15, 2012
7,990,000
March 15, 2013
8,225,000
September 15, 2013
8,470,000
March 15, 2014
8,720,000
September 15, 2014
8,975,000
March 15, 2015
9,240,000
September 15, 2015
9,515,000
March 15, 2016
9,795,000
September 15, 2016
      10,085,000
March 15, 2017
      10,385,000
September 15, 2017
      10,690,000
March 15, 2018
      11,005,000
September 15, 2018
      11,340,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of: (i) the Inner 
Mongolia Special Account, Category 1;  (ii)  the Gansu Special Account, Category 2; 
and (iii)  the Ningxia Special Account, Category 3, set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, in respect of: (i) the Inner 
Mongolia Special Account, an amount equal to $6,000,000; (ii) the Gansu Special 
Account, an amount equal to $7,000,000;  and (iii) the Ningxia Special Account, an 
amount equal to $4,000,000, in each case to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, (x) the 
Authorized Allocation for the Inner Mongolia Special Account shall be limited to an 
amount equal to $3,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to Category 1 plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed $25,000,000; (y) the 
Authorized Allocation for the Gansu Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equal to $4,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Category 2 plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed $35,000,000; and (z) the Authorized 
Allocation for the Ningxia Special Account shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$2,500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to Category 3 plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed $17,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that any Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation in respect of such 
Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such  Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
Page  14
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for such Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category for the Part of the Project in respect of which such Special Account was 
established,  minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
such Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation in respect of such Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Category for such Part of the Project shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: 
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into such Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
Page  15
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
