CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 442 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Relief Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 7, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 442 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Relief Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 7, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1973, between REP' ,LIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
- -      meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BND" means the Banque Nationale de D&eloppenent of the
Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 6/61/AN of January 23, 1961, and
includes any successor thereto;
(b)   "SUb-project" means any project financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or proposed to be so financed;
(c)   " First Development Credit Agreement" means the Agreement No. 317
UV, dated June 26, 1972 between the Borrower and the Association related to
a Rural Development Fund Project;
(d)   "RDF" means the Rural Development Fund established, within BND,
pursuant to Section 3.02 of the First Development Credit Agreement;
(e)   "RDF Account" means the Account in BND referred to in Section
2.10 of this Agreement;


﻿4
(f)   "Interdepartemental Technical Committee" means the Committee
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 of the First Development
Credit Agreement; and
(g)   "ORD" means an Organisme Rdgional de Dveloppement, an organisme
d'intMret public under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 20/65/AN
of July 28, 1965.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project or any Sub-project approved in
accordance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
(b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the RDF Account an initial amount in the currency of
the Borrower not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the request
of BND, further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the RDF
Account such amounts as shall be required to reimburse BND for payments made
out of the RDF Account for expenditures for the Project or any Sub-project eligible
for financing under the Development Credit Agreement but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount on deposit in
the RDF Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $200,000.
(c)  Notwithstanding the foregoing no further deposit shall be made to
the RDF Account and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account
when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account pursuant


﻿5
to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, together with the amount of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,800,000.
(d)  The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $1,800,000, if and only to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all payments were made by BND, out of the RDF
Account for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the Credit Account.
(e)  If the Association shall have determined that payments have been made
by BND out of the RDF Account for expenditures not eligible for withdrawal
from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the Association,
deposit in the RDF Account an amount equal to the amount of such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than (i) goods and services under any contract the cost of which
is expected to be equivalent of less than $100,000 but more than $10,000 ftr
which local competitive bidding procedures shall be used; (ii) goods and services
under any contract the cost of which is expected to be equivalent of $10,000
or less for which the usual government procurement procedures of the Borrower
shall apply; and (iii) services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1983, and ending June 15, 2023, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1993 to be one-half of one


﻿6
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The general manager of BND is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall open and maintain the RDF Account in
BND and shall cause BND to credit and debit the RDF Account in accordance
with the following provisions:
(a)  There shall be credited to the RDF Account: (i) such amounts as shall
from time to time be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
RDF Account by the Association pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; and (ii) such amounts as shall be deposited by the Borrower in
the RDF Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement.
(b)   Amounts deposited in the RDF Account pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be used only to make payments for expenditures eligible for
withdrawal from the Credit Account.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation on the application of Section 3.06 of the
First Development Credit Agreement the      Borrower shall maintain   the
Interdepartmental Technical Committee until completion of the Project and shall
further entrust it with such powers and responsibilities so as to enable it to:


﻿7
(i)         make all necessary arrangements for the timely preparation and
analysis of the Sub-projects;
(ii)        review and approve the Sub-projects according to the criteria
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(iii)       review the progress of the execution of the Sub-projects;
Section 3.03. Without limitation on the application of Section 3.06 of the
First Development Credit Agreement the Borrower shall provide the secretary's
office of the Interdepartmental Technical Committee with suitable and
appropriately located office accommodations.
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the application of Section 3.06 of the
First Development Credit Agreement the Borrower shall appoint or second to the
Interdepartmental Technical Committee additional personnel in such numbers and
with such qualifications and experience as shall be necessary for the execution
of the Project, and as shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes that all Sub-projects shall be
selected by the Interdepartmental Technical Committee for financing under the
Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that no Sub-project estimated to cost more
than $20,000 equivalent shall be selected by the Interdepartmental Technical
Committee unless it has recommended to the Association, and the Association shall
have accepted, the selection of such Sub-project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the appropriate ORD or any other
appropriate entity to take all measures as may be necessary to ensure proper
maintenance of all Sub-projects and such measures shall include, inter alia, that
with regard to Sub-projects involving irrigation or other land development, farmers
participating in such Sub-projects shall make an annual payment (in cash or kind)
to cover the operation and maintenance costs of the Sub-projects, such payment
to include, where appropriate, the supply of unskilled labor needed for the
maintenance of the Sub-projects.
(b)   With regard to all Sub-projects, the Borrower shall provide or cause
to be provided to its beneficiaries all necessary input supplies, processing and
marketing facilities under appropriate credit arrangements, and all necessary
extension services.


﻿8
Section 3.07. In the event that the Borrower carries out projects of a similar
nature to a selected Sub-project, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the most
efficient use of resources is made, and, in particular, that there is no duplication
of investment between such Sub-project and such other projects; and (ii) use its
best efforts to ensure that comparable terms and conditions including without
limitation charges and rates are levied on beneficiaries of similar projects.
Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall cause BND to maintain its RDF, within its organization and to conduct
through its RDF, and with the assistance of the Borrower's departments and
agencies, before presentation to the Interdepartmental Technical Committee,
economic and financial appraisals for any proposed Sub-project requiring economic
and financial analysis establishing their economic justification as provided under
paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the appropriate ORD         or any   other
appropriate entity to prepare the Sub-projects, with the assistance of its competent
departments and agencies, and to present such projects to the Interdepartmental
Technical Committee and BND for financing.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen qtives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and


﻿9
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such infoimation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall cause BND to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of BND.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BND to: (i) keep separate accounts for each
Sub-project and for each ORD by class of projects and a consolidated account
for all RDF Account operations; (ii) have such accounts for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than seven months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such accounts of BND and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BND and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿10
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BND and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the P.Tower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿11
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that Law No. 6/61/AN of
January 23, 1961, or Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
materially and adversely to affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the Gei 2ral Conditios:
(a)   that the Interdepartmental Technical Committee has been entrusted
with such powers and responsibilities as provided under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement; and
(b)   that the RDF account has been opened in BND.
Section 8.02. The date March 7, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 7.02
and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finances is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:
MINIFINANCE
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective narnes and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s/ H.E. Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.    Goods and services            2,000,000            100% of total
required for the                                   expenditures
Project or any
Sub-project
TOTAL         2,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term ""total expenditures" means
the aggregate of: (i) expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of any country other than the Borrower; and (ii) expenditures for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to October 15, 1973;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on the importation of goods or services to the extent
that any such taxes are levied on goods and services imported directly for purposes
of the Project. To the extent that the amount represented by the percentage set
forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above in respect of any
Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes on the importation
of any such goods or services, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that
no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such
taxes; and
(c)   any expenditures in respect of any Sub-project unless the Borrower's
request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be


﻿*                                             15
supported by contract, shipping and other appropriate documents satisfactory to
the Association, provided that, in the case of small items, for which presentation
to the Association of such documentation shall not be practical, requests for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of
expenditures in respect of any Sub-project shall be supported by statements certified
by BND that such amounts to be withdrawn from the Credit Account have been
paid in connection with Sub-projects approved as provided under Section 3.05 of
this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the amount of the Credit set forth in the second column
of the table in paragraph I above if the Association shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.    The Project is part of the Borrower's plans to help people in drought affected
areas to reestablish their selfsufficiency, by assisting them to redevelop and improve
their farms and herds.
2.    The Project is composed of a number of Sub-projects, which shall be selected
as follows:
(a)   Initial selection shall be made according to the following criteria:
(1)   the Sub-project is such that it will prevent or alleviate drought effects;
(2)   the Sub-project will help restore the productivity of areas affected by
the drought;
(3)   the Sub-project will generate profits quickly;
(4)   the Sub-project will benefit a large number of people; and
(5)   the Sub-project is needed and supported by its intended beneficiaries,
who are prepared, where this is feasible, to make contributions to its
costs through the provision of labor or local materials.
(b)   Sub-projects relating to the rehabilitation of water supplies, the
construction of new water supplies, the construction of storage facilities for farm
inputs and produce to serve the needs of not more than one village, or relating
to the improvement of veterinary care of livestock, shall not be selected unless
they meet the criteria set forth in such paragraph (a) hereto. Other Sub-projects,
and especially those involving production schemes such as the construction,
expansion or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes or the development of "bas-fonds"
shall not be selected unless (i) they fulfill the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph
(a) hereto; and (ii) economic and financial analysis shows that they are economically
justified.
(c)   Sub-projects fulfilling the criteria set forth in sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) hereto shall be put on national priority list and shall be selected by order
of such priority.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for any item included in the table set forth
in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    Identical or similar items shall be grouped together to form economic bid
packages for purposes of bidding.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally


﻿18
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
to goods manufactured in Upper Volta in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper Volta, if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Upper Volta equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper Volta other
than bids classified in group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such group


﻿19
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility  of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


