CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 296 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 3, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 296 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 3, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B)   The National Power Corporation (hereinafter called NPC) has also
requested the Bank to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NPC
(hereinaftei called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-two million dollars
($22,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement;
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
*       that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement on account of
expenditures on the Project be disbursed before disbursements thereon of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
and
(c)  Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"The term Project means the projet for which the Credit is
granted, as described in the Loan Agreement dated             ,
1972 between the Bank and the National Power Corporation and as
the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the National Power Corporation."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
term "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and NPC for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 31, 1969, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement
and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annurn on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I   and   September 1   commencing   September 1, 1982    and  ending
March 1, 20:,, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1t) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2") of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Compliance of Obligations
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NPC to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to NPC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NPC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not. assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable NPC to perform all of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02, (a) The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations tinder the
Guarantee Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NPC to perform all of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by NPC of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of NPC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿7
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
NPC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement or the performance by NPC of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of NPC and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 ol the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿8
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement under the Loan Agreement on the part of NPC, or under the Guarantee
Agreement on the part of the Borrower or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on the part of the parties thereto;
(b)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan under
the Loan Agreement shall have been suspended; and
(c)   the outstanding principal of the Loan under the Loan Agreement shall
have been declared, or shall become, due and payable in advance of the agreed
maturity thereof in accordance with the terms of the said Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in Section 6.02 (c) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled subject only
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿9
Section 7.02. The date July 1, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
Secfinance
Manila, Philippines
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Cesar Virata
Authorized Representatie
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


