Document of
T1he World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R_pet No. 8552
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2276-PNG)
APRIL 24, 1990
Agrlculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
ThW docmnt ha a rstictd dbtibuton and may be wed by recipie  only in the perfonrane of
theik ofMci dutie  Its contents may not otherwie be disosed without World Bank authriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
K 1    -   US$1.30
US$1      K 0.77
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)              -   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)             -   2.205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)             "   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =   0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)               -   2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     =    Asian Development Bank
ASSP    =    Agricultural Support Services Project
CSIRO   -    Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Resear-.h
Organization
DAL     -    Department of Agriculture and Livestock
DPI     =    Department of Primary Industry
FAOICP  8    Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
MEU          Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
PNG     =    Papua New Guinea
PSC     -    Public Service Commission
TTU     =    Transition.il Training Unit
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCA4L M OnLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wa*w%tof. D-C 20 41
USA
Opwac.ai  twv.e,t
April 24, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea
Agricultural Support Services ProDect (Loan 2276-PNG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Papua New Guinea Agricultural Support Services Project
(Loan 2276-PNG)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a muc  disibution nd may be used by scipists only in the petfonnmce
of thir offcid dutis Its cwawts may .ot othew  be disclosed without Woud Dak autiaw n



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2276-PNG)
TAZLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  *.............................................                   i
EVALUATION SUMHARY .............                 ...............         ii
PART I    s  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identify ..................................                   1
Background .........         ...............................          1
Project Objectives & Description ...............          ...         1
Project Design & Organization .................          ....         3
Project Implementation ............................                   4
Project Results .......         ...........................           6
Project Sustainablity ......          ...................... .        7
Bank Performance .......          ...........................8 
Borrower's Performance .          ...........................         9
Consultants .............. .... ......                .     .         9
Project Documentation & Data ...              ...................    10
PART II   X  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                         11
PART III :  STATISTICAL DATA                                                        24
1 Table : Project Timetable            ........................      24
2 Table : Loan/Credit Disbursements .... .............               25
3 Table s Project Implementation ................          ...       26
4 Table : Project Costs ....            ........................     27
5 Table : Project Financing ............. ............               28
6 Table s Studies ..... *.*..................          .....         29
7 Table t Status of Covenants            ......................      30
8 Table s Use of Bank Resources
(a) Staff Input .......................................  31
(b) Missions ...       ......... ....... .......... 
MAP        s  IBRD 16740
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotizstion.



PROJECT COMPLETION-REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2276-PNG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Agricultural Support Services Project in Papua New Guinea, for which the
amount of US $14.1 million was approved on May 3, 1983. The loan was
closed on June 30, 1989, one year behind schedule. An amount of US$5.6
million was cancelled in September 1987, the last disbursement was on
November 22, 1989 and a balance of $0.06 million was cancelled at Loan
account closure.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Departmentv, Asia Region (Part I & III), and the Borrower (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a visit to Papua
New Guinea in November, 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; Supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal P.ank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
--(LOAN 2276-PNG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.        The objective of the project was to strengthen the National
Department of Primary Industry (DPI)1 including it's capacity and capability
to provide necessary support to provincial governments in agricultural
extension services and development planning. This vas to be achieved through
the provision of incremental expatriate and national staff, fellowships,
infrastructure, and operational expenditures for the Branches covering crops
research, agricultural education and training, planning and economics,
agricultural extension. land utilization services, project development, and
livestock services.
Implemetation Exrerience
2.        Implementation was very slow, particularly for the two key
activities of staff recruitment and training under the fellowships program
vhich were to help build up staff capacity and capability. Although it had
been recognized that implementation would require considerable input of
specialized staff and a careful timing of budgeting, staff recruitment, and
administrative procedures, in the end it was the inability to plan, coordinate
and execute in a timely manner that contributed to the slow progress. The key
constraints were management, related to DPI's inadequate management
capability, adverse effects of a slow process of reorganizing the department,
frequent senior management staff changes, and cumbersome government
regulations and procedures.
Results
3.        The project did not fully achieve the targets for the two key
activities of staff recruitment and training under the fellowships program.
According to the project implement-ion schedule, all 24 expatriate staff and
109 of the 136 national staff were to be in post, and a total of 58 staff were
to proceed overseas for training, within two-and-a-half years of project
start-up. Over the full 6-year project period only 16 expatriates and 74
national had been recruited and only 12 staff had been sent for training. The
lNow DAL - Department of Agriculture & Livestock



- iii -
combined effect has been a slower process of strengthening of the department,
particularly it's crops research and extension programs. Some progress was
made with the initiative in the last two years of the project to introduce in-
house management skill training courses and obtain the services of a number of
advisers to assist in the management of the department, the planning and
implemertation of the crops research program, and planning assistance to the
provinces.
Sustainability
4.        The limited progress in strengthening the DPI in terms of staffing,
training, infrastructure, and the introduction of some management systems and
skills is expected to contribute towards making the department more capable in
providing support services to the provinces. Whether this limited capacity
and capability improvement can be sustained will depend on the Government
being able to stabilize and consolidate the DPI organization and leadership,
and create an environment which is conducive to the effective functioning of
the department. Towards this end a strong, long-term commitment of the
Government and Donor agencies is important.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
5.        The project was too ambitious in terms of scope and implementation
scheduling. Adequate account was not taken of the management capability of
the DPI in terms of skills and systems, the effect of government recruitment
policies, regulations and procedures, and the adverse effects of a slow
reorganization process and frequent leadership changes. The reliance on large
numbers of expatriate staff as a short-term institution building measure is of
questionable soundness. The main lessons are: (a) in institution building
projects, it is important to take into consideration the political, cultural,
and bureaucratic environment in which the project is to be implemented.
However, since it is not always possible to accurately forecast
political/bureaucratic changes, project design should allow for tighter
supervision, both by the Bank and Government, to enable adjustments during
implementation; (b) an evaluation of the management capability of the
institution to be strengthened in terms of leadership, organizational
structure, skills, and systems is just as important as the more tangible
aspects such as staff numbers and infrastructure; (c) the size and scope of
activities should be geared to the capacity and capability of the institution
(and country) to manage the activities; (d) planning of project supervision
should allow for continuity, adequate frequency, and an appropriate mix of
staff; and (e) since institution building is a long-term process, a strong,
long-term commitment is required from the Borrower and Donor. A number of
initiatives currently being undertaken by Government and Donor agencies
indicate recognition of these lessons.



PAPUA NEW GUINtA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2276-PNO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANRS PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name       tAgricultural Support Services Project
Loan/Credit Number : Ln. 2276 - PNG
RvP Unit           : Asia
Country            s Papua New Guinea
Sector             t Agriculture
Subsector
Background
1.        The agricultural sector has been, and remains, the most important
sector in the country, accounting for almost two-fifths of GDP and a third
of its exports. It provides a livelihood to about 852 of the population.
Government's policy is to increase local food production and reduce food
imports, broaden agricultural exports, and improve the livelihood of rural
families. In view of the importance of agriculture to the economy and the
generally unsatisfactory performance of the sector, Government decided in
1980, that there was need to take appropriate measures to revitalize it.
Government strategy called for greater participation of the private sector,
recognition of the important role of traditional agriculture, and an
improvement in the Government's agricultural support services. The support
services had been weakened by severe financial constraints, a fall in
administrative capability due to the rapid departure of experienced
expatriate staff and the devolution of some important support functions to
the 19 provinces since 1977.
2.        Since the country's independence in 1975, Banks support for
agricultural development was aimed at rehabilitation and diversification of
the tree crop sector and at rural development. The importance of support
services in agricultural development was recognized and the need to
strengthen them was emphasized in the Banks Agriculture sector Review,
1981. The key providers of support services in the public sector were the
national and provincial Departments of Primary Industry (DPI). The project
was formulated to strengthen the national DPI.l/
ProJect ObJectives and Description
3.        As described in the Appraisal Report, the objective of the
project was to strengthen the national DPI including its capability to
provide necessary support to provincial governments in the agricultural
sector particularly in extension services and development planning. The
major constraints affecting DPI were identified as. inadequacies in
planning and evaluation; insufficient numbers of experienced, qualified
staff; inappropriate staff training arrangements; inadequate linkages with
provincial governments. The project as conceived was described in the SAR
as being essentially a 'software project' which would lead to significant
increases and upgrading of staff and organizational changes in DPI.
Further, it was envisaged that the project would have a long gestation
period and many of its expected benefits would be either of a general
.L Now DAt - Department of Agric..ture & Livestock



-2-
nature i.e. increase in competence and efficiency of staff, or would come
in the form of avoided losses the likelihood and extent of which are
difficult to assess. Funds were provided for salaries of expatriate and
national staff, travel and subsistence expenses, utilities and rental and
operation of vehicles, consultancies, fellowships, civil works, equipment
and vehicles. Major project components were the followings
(a) Crop Research - Establishment of a Crop Research Division, to be
headed by an experienced, technically qualified Director, and
supported by a Deputy Director and administrative staffs provision
of scientific, technical, and support staff, infrastructure and
equipment; postgraduate training program to improve the competence
of 21 national scientific staff.
(b) Agricultural Education and Training - Conversion of the Highlands
Agricultural College at Mt. Hagen to an in-service training
facility for central and provincial DPI staff through the
provision of two Education Officers, three technical staff,and
construction of some new and upgrading of existing facilitier;
minor improvements at existing pre-service Colleges at Popondetta,
Vudal. and Sepik.
(c) Planning and Economics - Strengthening of DPI's Planning,
Economics and Statistical Sections of the Planning, Economics and
Marketing Branch through provision of 6 expatriate scientific
staff and a number of local technical staff to enable the sections
to help provincial planning efforts and the Departments own
planning monitoring requirements.
Cd) Agricultural Extension Support - Assignment and recruitment of six
scientific and four development officers for the Extension
Advisory, Publications, Radio Broadcast and Libraries Units of the
Section. Four officers of the Extension Advisory Unit were to be
located in each of the country's major regions to be accessible
and readily available to the provinces.
(e) Land Utilization Services - Provision for expatriate and national
Scientific Officers and technical support staff to assist in soil
erosion studies, a land capability survey of alienated land, and
completion of an ongoing CSIRO land evaluation for subsistence and
cash cropping.
(f) Agricultural Proiect Development - Five Scientific Officers and
support staff to be acided to the Agricultural Development Section
of the Agriculture Branch to enable it to increase its capacity
for preparation, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of
export crops projects.
(g) Livestock Services - Nine stock inspectors to be recruited for the
animal disease and pest surveillance program; an expatriate
pathologist and funds for essential facilities and equipment at
the central veterinary laboratory.
(h) Fellowships - In addition to the post-graduate training in crop
research, the project provided for training overseas of 58 staff
for durations ranging from short-term courses to one year of
formal education.



Mi) Consultancies - 69 man-months of expatriate technical assistance
including provision for development of data system and the
coordination of national and provincial planning,identification
and preparation of agricultural projects, and development of
training materials for in-service training courses.
4.       In 1986, after the mid-term review, an additional component was
added to the project at Government request. This was to provide for the
setting up of a Transitional Training Unit(TTU) in the Program Management
Unit of the Department of the Prime Minister. TTU's objective was to
assist in the strengthenir.g of management training and development programs
in key departments and provinces and training institutions. The first
client of the TTU was to be the DAL.
Proiect Design and Organization
5.       The project was prepared by the PNG Department of Primary Industry
with assistance of a FAO/CP team and given final shape by the Bank at
appraisal. The need for the project and its conceptual foundation was
agreed and understood by all parties concerned. The project was based on
the agricultural sector review underzaken by the Bank in 1981. which had
concluded that a revitalization of the sector required a strengthening of
its support services; that the long gestation period required for
institutional and manpower development efforts necessitated corrective
action as early as possible; that without staff upgrading and assistance
from the national level. most provincial DPIs would be unable to
effectively carry out their responsibilities. The PNG government concurred
with these views and consequently requested Bank assistance in the prepara-
tion and eventual funding of a project to strengthen the national DPI.
6.       In retrospect, the project design was over ambitious and
unrealistic in that it sought to achieve targets and objectives which
essenti-lly required a strong, longer-term commitment and a slower
implementation schedule. The design also did not take adequate account of
the importance of management capacities and capabilities, organizational
stability, and Government regulations and procedures.
7.       The project was designed to focus over a five year period, on
manpower and infrastructure requirements of DPI. The model used was one
which was fairly current, and relied on bringing in qualified expatriates
to fill key positions until natiorals, who were to be trained, returned to
take over. The Department was to recruit 136 national(18 Sc. Officers,3
Econ.) and 24 expatriate staff(20 Sc. Officers,4 Econ.). Total projec
costs over the four and a half years of implementation was estimated at USD
24.3 million and salaries and allowances for staff accounted for about 422
of total project costs reflecting the dominant service nature of the
project. In terms of the Loan (USD 14.1 million), USD 6.2 million (44z)
was allocated for contract staff salaries and allowances.
a.       In order to reduce project complexity, a deliberate attempt was
made during appraisal to focus the project on DPI and proposed components
involving other Departments were excluded. Within DPI, the existing
structure was used and implementation was carried out by the relevant
Branches but a Project Coordinator was to ensure integration and proper
linkages between the various components. This arrangement subsequently
proved to be unsatisfactory because the Department's management and
administrative capability to plan, implement tnd monitor project activities
was inadequate and the project coordinator's role was ineffective due to
frequent changes and a lack of administrative support.



9.       Although the heavy administrative burden of recruiting large
numbers of expatriate and local staff and factors such as salary incentives
and housing were recognized as obstacles to recruitment of suitable staff.
yet all the expatriate staff and 80% of the local staff were scheduled to
be recruited in the first two and a half years of project implementation.
Ihile GOPNG recognized the administrative problems in the public service
and had established an Administrative Improvement Program, it was also
recognized that improvements could only be brought about gradually. In
terms of the project,however, governiment had agreed in principle to avail
itself of the services of recruitment agencies to overcome some of the
obstacles and to examine incentives on an individual basis to attract
highly qualified foreign personnel. However, subsequent results show that
these agreements in princip !e were not effectively translated into practice
and the recruitment targets proved to be highly unrealistic.
10.      The project design had focussed more on tangibles like staff
numbers, fellowships and infrastructure, with little emphasis on the
adequacy of management and administrative capability of the DPI in terms of
the systems, operating procedures, and skills to undertake, even in the
short term, effective implementation of project activities. DPI's original
proposals had contained !n-service training for technical as well as
management training but provisions for management training were excluded
from the final project design with the expectation that the Administrative
College would accommodate DPI's requirements. This did not occur and only
after the mid-term review and with the establishment of TTU and the
provision of the team of advisers in 1986187, was action taken to try to
rectify some of the management and administrative weaknesses.
11.      In retrospect, it can also be said that it is highly improbable
that the project design was suited for the stated objectives even if the
staffing exercise had, in fact, been successfully carried out. Experience
from other countries casts serious doubts on the feasibility of sustaining
an institutional development effort based on recruiting large numbers of
expatriate staff for a relatively short period of time and on the
expectation that local staff would on their return from training during
that period, be in a position to effectively fill positions which require
both technical expertise and experience and be able to carry an on-going
program at the same intensity and level of sophistication. One of the
essential requirements for such institutional building efforts to succeed
is a longer term commitment (15 - 20 years?) to a sustained effort by both
the Borrower and the Donor agency which in the case of this particular
project was not evident in its design.
Project Implementation
12.      The project, as designed, stands or falls on the success achieved
in implementation of the two core activities of staff recruitment and
training under the fellowships program. In view of the importance of these
activities the project implementation schedule called for the
implementation and completion of the staff recruitment and fellowships
programs within the first two and a half years. This proved to be overly
optimistic and the project failed to achieve the set targets even over the
full 5-year project period.
13.      Although it was recognized from the start that the successful
implementation of such a program would require considerable input of
specialized staff, and a careful timing of budgeting, staff recruitment and
other administrative procedures, and Government had in principle agreed to



avail itself of the services of professional recsuitment agents in order to
overcome some of these obstacles, in the end it was the inability to
plan,coordinate and execute in a timely manner that contributed to the s'ow
rate of implementation.Progress on the fellowships program was only
marginally better. Initially the Department preferred to use bilateral
grant funds which became available during this period. However, even with
subsequent use of project funds the planned fellowships targets and
objectives were not achieved largely because of inadequate DPI planning and
execution of the program. Factors which affected implementation weres (a)
DPI management capacity and capability; (b) Departmental reorganizatin;
(c) government recruitment policy, regulations and procedures; (d) frequent
changes in DPI senior management staff.
(a) DPI management capability - Despite the fact that PSC had approved
creation of 75 national and 22 expatriate positions in 1984, the
DPI was able to fill only a few of these positions. Within DPI,
the inability of t'. --anagement Services Branch to tackle staff
recruitment and      . act that some Branch heads saw the need to
deal directly with the PSC, indicates weaknesses in the system.
The basic capability to administer and monitor a recruitment
program was insufficiently developed and the importance of this
practical and essential function appears to have been under
estimated in the initial planning of ;:he project. In fact, no
provision was made to improve and strengthen management services.
A stronger Management Services Branct. with appropriate procedures
in place, together with a continuousl) serving, experienced
Project Coordinator with strong direction and support from Senior
Management, could have played a constructive role in bringing
about a more coordinated and forceful resolution of implementation
issues. The potential effects of any corrective actions taken
were blunted by the lack of persistent and continuous emphasis due
to frequent changes in senior management. Not until 1987 was a
concerted effort made to obtain the services of professional
recruiting agencies and to organize serious attempts at improving
management skills and systems.
(b) Departmental reorganization - At the time of appraisal in 1982,
the Government was already const1dering change: in the DPI
organizational structure. At appraisal these changes were
considered important but not essential for the success of the
project. During implementation, however, it was found that delays
and uncertainties in the finalization and approval of the proposed
modified structure had a strong bearing on the recruitment of
staff as justification and evaluation of each staff position was
based on its relevancy and fit in the Departmental structure.
Positions unless immediately filled, had to be re-evaluated with
each subsequent change of structure which in the case of DPI
continued into late 1987. The continuous reorganization created
an environment which affected DPI staff moral' and brought about a
focus on immediate or short term goals at the expense of longer
term more permanent goals.
(c) Government regulations and procedures - The establishment and
filling of each new position was a lengthy process requiring
coordination and  continuous, persistent effort, particularly on
the part of DPI.  It involved actions and approvals by DPI,
Department of Finance and the Public Services Commission (PSC).
Despite the fact that a number of positions had been created few
were filled due largely to delays in DP: but also in PSC. Lack of



-6-
suitable housing, unattractive salaries, Government policy on
'localisation' of posts and frequent imposition of a 'moratorium"
on recruitment, were additional factors.
In order to overcome some of the constraints and: delays in
recruitment, the Depa;tment, in 1987, contracted the UNDPIOPE
management services to provide a team of five expatriate advisors
to assist the newly created Investment Division, Planning and
Programming Division, and the Crop Research Division, and at the
request of the Government the Loan closing date was extended a
year to enable the team reasonable time for operation.
td) Frequent senior management changes - Invariably, frequent changes
of senior staff, particularly in leadership positions, contribute
to a blurring of project objectives, changed emphasis, and a loss
in implementation momentum. DPI experienced a number of such
staff changes during the project years including those at the
Secretary (3), Project Coordinator (5 - including 1 year without a
coordinator), and Branch Head levels. The position of Director,
Crop Research, was never substantially filled as intended until
1988 and then only for a year.
Project Results
14.      In line with the design of the project the emphasis during
implementation was on staff numbers recruited and fellowships awarded.It
had been acknowledged that since the project was designed as a "soft ware'
project it would not be possible to measure the success of the project in
terms of increased competence and efficiency of the Department. In terms
of the specific quantitative implementation indicators agreed to at
appraisal, except for infrastructure, the targets have not been fully
achieved and it could, therefore, be surmised that the objective of the
project has not been fully achieved. The project implementation schedule
expected all 24 expatriate staff and at least 109 national staff to be on
board before 1986 but by early 1986 only 15 expatriate and 78 national
positions had been created of which only 10 and 33 positions respectively
were substantially filled. Due to delayed processing, unattractive terms
and conditions of service, the ability of the project to recruit qualified,
experienced expatriates was also considerably reduced. The position as of
mid-1989 was 16 expatriate and 74 national positions filled in addition to
the four expatriate advisers that were provided under the UNDPIOPE
management services agreement. The targets set at appraisal, therefore,
proved to be highly optimistic.
15.      The fellowships component, which was to assist in upgrading the
competence of national staff and to enable them to gradually take over full
responsibilities for DPI programs, was also not able to meet the targets
set at appraisal. Of the 58 fellowships planned to be implemented by 1986
only 12 had been awarded. While available data tends to indicate that a
total of 87 staff were awarded fellowships from al', sources, most of these
were for short-term courses or seminars. Of these 20 were from the Crop
Research Division and 25 from the Education and Training Division. Only two
of the research fellt-dships were for a Masters program, the rest were for
short-term courses.
16.      No specific impact indicators were developed during appraisal.  A
general assessment for each of the major components is as follows:



(a) The Crop Research Division was established but it has not had a
substantive Director. In the absence of a research program and
direction, the proposed network of testing stations in collabora-
tion with the extension services was not established. In 1987/88
the consultant research adviser provided under the UNDP management
services agreement, formulated a research program for the division
but implementation of this program has been slow because of
shortages of staff, particularly local scientific staff.
(b) The Four Regional Extension Advisor posts were not filled as
proposed under a strengthened Information Section. Only in the
papt year have formal Memorandum of Understanding been concluded
with six provinces under which the national DPI would assist the
provinces. The agricultural adviser, in the collaboration with the
Planning division of DPI, has been conducting training courses in
agricultural planning for provincial staff.
(c) The Planning, Economics and Statistical sections of the Planning,
Economics and Marketing branch have generally fared better than
other parts of the Department. Some of the proposed staff were
recruited, and advisers provided under the UNDP/OPE services
agreement. An agricultural development policy paper and a medium-
term development strategy has been prepared. A number of
smallholder projects have been formulated which also served to
train local staff. A number of Memorandum of Understanding with
Provinces have been concluded which fonm the basis for assistance
and cooperation between the national DPI and the Provinces. With
asststance of the advisers a Management Information System has
been established for the Department.
(d) The expected output from the crop development section in terms of
being able to initiate and implement 1-2 new export crops projects
per year did not materialize since the expatriate and local staff
to strengthen the capacity of the section were not recruited.
During this period only two project proposals were prepared, using
outside assistance. Adviser assistance provided under the project
through the UNDP/OPE services agreement helped finalize three
smallholder development projects and gave on-the-job training on
project preparation to a team of local staff.
(e) The Transitional Training Unit was able to cover a range of
activities as planned but fell behind schedule due to delays in
obtaining the full complement of international and national staff
and the unforeseen diversion of resources to assist in the
development of the Government's new Resource Management System.
For those client departments and provinces with which the team was
assigned to work, organizational analysis and training was carried
out.particularly with DPI and the four provinces of E. Sepik,
Southern Highlands, N. Solomons, and Milne Bay. While the response
from the clients indicated that TTU's services have contributed to
meeting some of their skill-development needs, actual improvements
in management and planning are as yet difficult to substantiate.
Proiect Sustainability
17.      In retrospect, the project as originally designed was not
sustainable since it focused on strengthening the DPI in terms of staff
numbers and infraittructure without adequate provision for establishment and
improvement of management systems. However, this weakness was recognized



-8
in the last two years of the project period and attempts were made to
rectify the situation. Whether the limited and fragile planning and
project preparation capacity built up thus far and the systems and
processes introduced in the last couple of years of the project, can be
effectively maintained would depend on the Government being able to
stabilize and consolidate the DPI organization and leadership and create an
environment which provides adequate incentives for the organization to
function effectively and to continue to undertake institutional
improvements. Towards this end a strong, long term commitment of the
Government and Donor agencies is important.
Bank Performance
18.      Simplifying the project design by restricting project activities
to DPI and the decision in 1986/87 to support the team of advisers and the
TTU under the project was a sound decision. However, at appraisal, the
importance of DPI's administrative and management capacity and capability,
recruitment procedures, Government policy on 'localization' of posts, terms
and conditions of service, particularly on recruitment of experienced
expatriate staff, to project implementation was underestimated. Under
these circumstances the decision to cover a number of major Branches,
instead of focussing on one or two key ones with clearly identified
programs and objectives to be achieved, also turned out to be overly
ambitious. The presence of experienced expatriate officers in key
positions at the time of appraisal may have provided some measure of
confidence but the departure of these officers during the first two project
years proved such confidence to have been misplaced. The Bank also
underestimated the possible effects of the reorganization of DPI on project
implementation and staff morale.
19.      In parallel with the DPI, the Bank too experienced a lack of
continuity in staff involved in the project. In the Division directly
responsible for the project, there were changes in Divisional managers(3)
and staff supervising the project (4) with changes occurring in the second
and fourth years. After the first year n.one of the managers or staff
involved in supervision had participated in the preparation or appraisal of
the project. In the six years of implementation, the Bank spent 57 staff
weeks on project supervision. This represents an average of 9 staff weeks
per year, a relatively low figure for an important operation involving a
key Government department in a young country. There was little continuity
of staff or an appropriate mix, supervising the project which contributed
to a lack of continued focus and failure to forcefully emphasize the
identified need for urgent strengthening of DPI's management capability.
Reluctance, generally, on the part of the Bank during this period to get
involved in "institutional development' also contributed to the lack of
forceful action. In retrospect, greater emphasis during supervision on
institutional/management issues through closer involvement and a more
appropriate mix of staff expertise could have benefitted project
implementation. A more forceful resolution of issues, particularly
policies, procedures and processes affecting staff recruitment and
management of the Department, could probably have been achieved early in
the project implementation period.
20.      The main lessons from this project are:  (a) in institution
building projects it is important to take into consideration the political,
cultural, and bureaucratic environment in which the project is to be
implemented. However, since it is not always possible to accurately
forecast political/bureaucratic changes, project design should allow for
tighter supervision, both by the Bank and Government, to enable adjustments



during implementation; (b) an evaluation of the management capability of
the institution to be strengthened in terms of leadership, organizational
structure, skills, and systems is just as important as the more tangible
aspects such as staff numbers and infrastructure; (c) the size and scope of
activities should be geared to the capacity and capability of the institu-
tion (and country) to manage these activities; (d) planning of project
supervision should allcw for continuity, adequate frequency and an appro-
priate mix of staff; (e) since institution building is a long-term process,
a strong, long-term commitment is necessary from a Borrower and Donor.
21.       Action being taken by Government and the Donors, indicate a
recognition of lessons learnt. The Bank's Agricultural Assessment Review,
1988, highlighted the need for major emphasis by Donors on institutional
and human resource development on a long-term involvement basis -
particularly with reference to research and extension in DPI. The New'
Zealand Government's recent review of extension services is likely to be
followed by a longer-term assistance program for strengthening these
services. The UNDP funded institutional development programs, the FAO
human resources study, the ADB program Loan which includes institutional
measures, and the Bank's Absorptive capacity study, are all indicative of
the recognition of these lessons.
Borrower Performance
22.       The Borrower had placed high priority on strengthening the DPI
during the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project but
this priority, viewed from the Banks perspective, changed during
implementation both in terms of urgency and the time frame over which the
various activities, other than those related to infrastructure, were to be
executed. This change could be ascribed to the frequent changes in DPI
leadership, the continuous issue of departmental reorganization, and
effects of GOPNG policies and procedures on recruitment, which led to a
preoccupation, at least in the first three to four years, with immediate,
short term objectives rather than an active commitment to longer term
institution building objectives. In the absence of adequate and
appropriate management tools, monitoring and coordination of departmental
programs and activities posed serious difficulties and little was done to
try and rectify the situation until 1987. Monitoring of project related
activities was weak and reliable data was difficult to obtain. This posed
difficulties to DPI management, Bank supervision missions and to Government
appointed auditors who had to prepare financial statements.
Consultants
22.       The Advisors provided under the GovernmentlUNDP management
services agreement made useful, but limited ccntributions. Delays in
finalizing DPI's reorganizations, opposition to the advisers from some
department staff, inadequate, poor counterpart staff assignments,
contributed to their short-comings in performance. The concept and
expectation that advisers undertake both specific tasks and also provide
training to counterparts was, overall, not successful and points to the
need to review carefully such arrangements in the future.



-10 -
Proiect Documentation and Data
23.       The project design and implementation schedule called for the
recruitment of relatively large numbers of staff. Information and
assurances were given during negotiations on impending key appointments,
and imminent finalization of reorganization of DPI, but no specific
covenants were included in the legal agreement on these aspects.
24.       Had such specific covenants been included as a method of
highlighting essential activities, and had the Bank sought compliance, it
is likely that the outcome would have been an enforced, early review of the
management capability of DPI and the Government's recruitment regulations
and procedures resulting, in all probability, in improved project design
and implementation.
25.       Due to inadequate project coordination and monitoring, data was
not readily available for the various activities. This points to the need
to ensure adequate and relevant management capability.



- 11 -
PART II.
PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.        This part of the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP)
Completion Report, will focus on the following areast
(a) project design and formulation;
(b) implementation problems;
(c) achievements on objectives; and
(d) sustainability.
The lessons which had been learnt from the implementation of the ASSP are also
delineated.
Project Formulation and Design
2.        The ASSP was basically designed as a 'Software' Project to provide
sufficient infrastructure and skilled personnel to the Department of
Agriculture and Livestock (DAL)--(then DPI). The basic justification of ASSP
was that the provision of relevant Support Services to the agricultural sector
was a sufficient condition for a sustainable development in the agricultural
sector. There is little information to show that ASSP was created in response
to government priorities, as established in official development plarn. The
ASSP was designed as a project of separate component programs. In contrast to
a situation in which a department forecasts a crisis to occur some time and
puts up a unified project to cope with it, the concept of the Agricultural
Support Services project emerged in response to a tree crop survey research.
As the organization responsible, DAL (then DPI) was in fact not at all well
prepared to implement the ASSP. There were severe limits of time available
for DAL to prepare and submit a remedial project in which all the thirteen
components could be carried out. Understandably this contributed to a situa-
tion in which the thirteen proposed components were carried out independently
instead of being implemented by a simple coordinating office. Actually, the
lack of coordination did not disrupt any of the project components because
they were not functionally interrelated, and the completion of one project
component was not a pre-requisite for commencing another. Any one or all of
the components were to make a positive contribution in serving to strengthen
the capacity in DAL. They delays in the implementation of the individual com-
ponents served to increase the investment cost of ASSP.
3.        On the whole, the concept and rationale for the design of ASSP were
good and innovative. However, a major flaw of the design was that it was not
integrative and ccmprehensive. It appears that no feasibility analysis was
done to determine whether the management capacity in DPI would be adequate to
handle the complex dimensions of the ASSP for implementation. The conse-
quences of this oversight were that unattainable and unrealistic targets were
set for ASSP.



- 12 -
4.        Furthermore, even though ASSP was formulated and designed with con-
siderable inputs from the hierarchy of DPI, some principal agencies, viz.,
Department of Personnel Management (Public Services Commission), Department of
Works and Housing, Department of Foreign Affairs, which had to play active
roles in the recruitment of staff, approval 3f visa authorizations, and provi-
sion of housing tor staff were less involved in the design and preparation of
the project.
5.        More importantly, the design of organizational arrangements for the
execution of the ASSP were inadequately considered. The functional matrix
relationship which was designed for the coordination and implementation of the
components of ASSP were not clearly defined. The coordination arrangement in
fact was incongruous with the line-function organizational structure which
existed in DPI. This contributed to the weak coordination and linkages among
the components of ASSP.
6.        In addition, the monitoring and reporting on the activities of the
ASSP were not adequate. The requirement for the Project Coordinator to report
directly on a quarterly basis to the Department of Finance and Planning while
he had no authority to monitor the ASSP components was a gross mistake. The
fact that Department of Finance is too remote from the activities of ASSP to
fully know what went wrong or right contributed to the poor project control
and monitoring.
7.        Moreover, the ASSP was designed as a short term project with a
planning horizon of for four and a half years. The project designers failed
to realize that most institutional development projects take more than 10
years to get to the full development stage. With thia oversight in the time
scale of the project no follow-up projects were designed to ensure continuity
in training and reinforcement on gained capacities.
Project Implementation: Results and Problems
8.        The project formally spanned four and a half years from July 1983 to
December 1987. From the beginning to the end, the project failed to meet
major deadlines. No project component was finished on schedule, (refer to
Tables 1 and 2) and cumulative time overruns so exceeded the deadlines. This
prompted the Government of Papua New Guinea to reduce the loan by 5 million
kina and also to extend the project period to June 1989.
9.        At appraisal, ASSP was planned to recruit 138 national officers and
24 expatriate officers at an estimated cost of US$24.3 million. With due cog-
nizance that the success of the project would be dependent on the ability to
hire staff into positions in the early stages of the project, it was planned
that 80X of the target for both expatriate and national staff would have been
in post by 1985. It had not been possible to recruit the number of skilled
staff as planned. For example, by the end of 1985, 43Z and 5O0 of the planned
targets for the recruitment of expatriate and national staff respectively, had
been achieved. By the end of the planned completion date of ASSP, (i.e.,
December 1987), 63% and 531 of the targets for expatriate and national staff
respectively had been hired under the ASSP (see Table 3). One of the basic
objectives of implementation of ASSP was that it would lead to an 182 increase
in DAL's annual recurrent budgetary allocations. An examination of Table 4



- 13 -
shows that during the period 1984 to 1987. when ASSP was being implemented,
the net gain in recurrent budgetary allocations by DAL was 1.87X. The alloca-
tion of resources to the whole agricultural sector did decline during the life
cycle of ASSP; the share of agriculture in the total National budget remained
between 7-92 and did decline in real terms during that period (i.e., 1984 to
1987). This evidence supports the view that the ASSP did not lead to any in-
crease in the recurrent budget allocations to DAL during the project's life.
Institutional development may not have been a government priority.
10.       In addition, the utilization of the loans proceeded at a slower pace
than anticipated. By the end of the planrr'd completion date (December 1987);
only 25.6Z of the loans have been utilized; even when the project period was
further extended to June 1989, 912 of the funds was spent. Achievements of
ASSP to date have been dismal. The extension of the project period from
December 1987 to June 1989 did not achieve any significant improvement in the
loan utilization rate.
i1.       The causes of the low achievements on the planned targets were many.
These included:
(a) lengthy delays in the recruitment of both national and expatriate
staff;
(b) a freeze on the recruitment of staff by the government;
(c)  unattractive conditions of employment to attract suitable candidates
for ASSP positions;
(d) inflexible manpower ceilings within which the project had to
operate;
Ce) changes and discontinuities in project marnagement due to reorganiza-
tion of the DAL during the project period;
(f) lack of support and commitment by DAL Executive to the ASSP;
(g) inadequate management capacity to handle the complexity and work
load of ASSP.
12.       Bureaucratic Procedures in Recruitment.  Lengthy recruitment proce-
dures which had to be followed by the incumbent candidates contributed to the
slow rate at which staff recruitment proceeded under the ASSP. For instance,
it took between 9 months to 24 months for candidates selected for ASSP posi-
tions to be issued with visas and tickets. In addition overseas staff
arriving in PNG hLad to stay in hotels for three to six months before suitable
housing was provided. The delays led to loss of good candidates for some of
the positions.
13.       Freeze on Staff Recruitment.  Basically, the ASSP project sought to
strengthen capacities in DAL by recruiting skilled staff. The irony of the
situation is that during the implementation of ASSP the Government of Papua
New Guinea imposed a freeze on the recruitment of personnel into the public



- 14 -
service. This policy fundamentally rendered the A&sSP redundant because
skilled personnel could not be recruited.
14.       Unattractiveness of Service Conditions.  This factor accounted for
the inability to fill ASSP positions. The Public Service Commission's
Employment and Service conditions which prevailed during the implementation of
ASSP were not attractive enough to attract skilled professional staff for the
ASSP positions. As a result most of the potential candidates declined to
accept their appointments.
15.       Inflexibility in Manpower Ceilings.  Related to the problems result-
ing from the ban on recruitment into the public service was the ruling that
all ASSP positions had to be either created or reclassified and approved with-
in the manpower ceilings allocated for the Department of Agriculture and
Livestock. The manpower ceilings set for DAL and for the whole PNG Public
Service from 1985 to 1987 are shown in Table 5. An examination of Table 5
shows that DAL's manpower was cut by 29? (National ceiling by 26? and overseas
ceiling by 50). For the whole Government's public service, the manpower
ceilings for overseas recruitment was cut by 29? as compared with a 1S cut for
the National staff recruitment. The large cuts in the overseas ceilings for
the whole Public Service indic&ted the importance accorded to the localiza-
tion policy by the Government. The diminished emphasis on overseas recruit-
ment as a government policy thus conflicted with the concept of ASSP which
sought to increase DAL's capacity partly through the recruitment of contract
staff from overseas.



Table 1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT PERIOD: JULY 1983 - JUNE 1989
Total        2nd
planned at  semester                         Completion Dates
appraisal      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989
P    A     P  A      P  A      P  A      P  A       P  A      P  A
Recruitment & Hiring of Staff
(No. of Staff)
Expatriate                               24         4  0      15   6    5   6    0   2    0   1    0   0    0   1
National                                136         4   0    68  33   37  26   13  12   14   1    0   2    0   0
Civil Works (No. of Units)
Crop Research Component
Insect Stone                              1         0   0      1   0    0   1    00           0   0    0   0    0   0
Electrification of Water Supply           0         0   0      0   0    0   0    0   1    0   0    0   0    0   0
Office & Laboratory Buildings             0         0   0      00        0   1    00         0   3    0   0    0   0
Machinery Shed                            0         0   0       0   0    00        0   1    0   0    0   0    0   0
Water Reticulation System                 0         0   0       0   0    0   0    00         0   1    0   0    0   0
Green Houses - Propagation & Trials  0              0   0      0   0    0   0    0   0    0   1    0   0    0   1
High Covenant Houses                      7         00         0   1    0   6    0   4    0   4    0   2    0   0
Low Covenant Houses                       6         0   0      00  00             0  16    0   8    0   2    0   0
Middle Covenant Houses                   38         0   0      8   0   15   0   150           0  0      0   0    0   0
Agricultural Education &
Training Components
Conversioia of Science Classroom to
Science Laboratory                       1         0   0      1   0    0   1    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0
Dormitory                                 1         0   0      10        0   0    00         0   1    0   0    0   0
Audio Visual Storeroom                    0         0   0      00        0   0    00        0   1    0   0    0   0
Office Complex                            1         0   0      1   0    0   0    0   0    0   1    0   0    0   0
Ablution Block                            1         0  0        1   0    00        0  0      0   1    0   0    0   0
Laundry Block                             0         0   0      0   0    00  00              0   1    0   0    0   0
Upgrading of Existing Dormitories    1              0   0       1   0    0   0    0   0    0   2    0   0    0   0
Upgrading of PMTP Facilities              0         0   0       0   2    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0



Table 1: cont'd
Total       2nd
planned at  semester                      Completion Dates
appraisal     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     19&3      1989
P    A    P  A      P  A     P  A      P  A     P  A      P  A
Livestock Services Component
Security Laboratory for
Infections Diseases                   1         0   0     1   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   1
Dangerous Chemical Store               0         0   0      0   0    0   0    0   1    0   0    0   0    0   0
Low Covenant Houses for Animal
Diseases Surveillance                 9         0   0     2   0    4   2    2   1    0   4    0   0    0   1
Upgrading Existing Low Covenant
Houses                                0         0   0     0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   2
Transit Staff Housing                                                                                                    0
Consultancies Ja (manmonth)
Including CSIRO Program             155         0   6    40  4?   60  40   55  36    0  60    0  60    0  48
Fellowships (No. of Fellow)
Short-term Courses (3-8 months)    21           0   0    10        11        0         0        0         0
Long-term Courses (12-30 months)   37           7   0    15        15       15         0        0         0
Crop Research Reports
Summary Reports on Crop Research
Activities for periods 1973-77
and 1978-82                                 311331/5  30/6  NS 3016  NS 3016  NS 30/6  NS 3016  US 3016  NS
Annual Report                           June 30       N.S.    N.S.      N.S.     N.S.      U.S.      U.S.
P  = Planned Target                        /a   Figures reported for actual number of consultancy
A  = Actual Achievement                          manmonths procured include those provided under the
N.S.  - Not Submitted                               monitoring and evaluation component of ASSP which were
not specified in the 



- 17 -
Table 2s THE TIME FRAME OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Scheduled       Actual         Time
Starting Date     completion      completion    overrun/
Project Component   Scheduled   Actual        date           date          lags
Recruitment &          1983       1984        1987      Not completed   2 years
Hiring of Staff                                        u) to date
Civil Works            1983       1984        1987      Not completed   2 years
up to date
Consultants            1983       1983        1986      Not completed   3 years
up to date
Fellowships            1984       1984        1985      Ongoing          4 years
Table 3: ASSP STAFFING POSITION AS Ar DECEMBER 31, 1987
Subcomponent               Number Planned at Appraisal   Actual Number in Post
of ASSP                      N      0          Total        N      0      Total
Coordination                  0       0            0         2       1        3
Planning/Economics           15       6           21         9       3       12
Livestock Services            9       1           10         3       0        3
Ag. Education & Training    27        4           31         5       2        7
Agric. Development            4       3            8         2       0        2
Agriculture Quarantine       13       0           13         2       0        2
Agriculture Land Use         22       2           24         8       1        9
Crop Research                45       8           53         6       2        8
Total                     136      24          160        37      9        46
Sources ASSP Annual Report January - December (1987)



- 18 -
Table 4: ALLOCATION OF NATIONAL FUNDS TO AGRICULTURE. 1984-87
K million                    Z of total
1984   1985   1986   1987   1984   1985   1986   1987
Recurrent Budget
DAL                       8.9    9.9    9.4   10.0   24.6   23.8   25.5   25.4
Provinces                12.4   13.6   11.6  I1.a   34.2   33.3   31.5   30.0
Total                 21.4   23.7   21.0   21.8   58.8   57.1   57.0   55.4
Nat. Exp. Plan
DAL                       9.9   11.7    9.7   11.3   27.3   28.2   28.7   28.8
Provinces                 0.6    1.6    1.2    2.2    1.7    3.8    5.6    5.6
Total                 10.5   13.3   10.9   13.5   29.0   32.0   34.3   34.4
Capital Works             2.2    4.0    3.9    3.5    6.1    9.6   10.6    8.9
Capital Subscriptions    2.2    0.5    1.0    0.5    6.1    1.2    2.7    1.3
Total Allocation
to agriculture        36.2   41.5   36.8   39.2  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Allocation to agricul-
tur in constant
(1981) prices           29.3;  31.0   26.1   28.4
Allocation to agricul-
ture as Z of budget                                    8.2    9.3    7.2    7.5
Sources World Bank (1988), PNG Agricultural Assessment Review.



- 19 -
Table S GOVERNMENT MANPOWER CEILINGS, 1985-87
Percent
1985     1986     1987    change
DAL     National                            1,200      958       889     -26
Oversess                              204      141      102      -S0
Total                             1,404    1 099      991      -29
Whole Government National                  48,446   47,305   47,901       -1
Overseas                            3,115    2,625    2,198      -29
Total                           51,561   49,930   50,099       -3
Sources Budget Document No. 2, 1987.
16.       The policy on manpower ceilings in essence meant that positions
which were created or reclassified for the purpose of the ASSP did not provide
additional manpower resources but rather reduced the number of positions
available to DAL.  This situation made it difficult for DAL to get additional
replacement positions to cater for those positions which had to be sacrificed
for ASSP posts. The consequence was a serious shortage of staff for some non-
ASSP positions as well as for the appointment of counterpart positions for the
ASSP-funded positions.
17.       DAL's Reorgarization.  In terms of the objectives of strengthening
institutional capacity in DAL, there have been three institutional reorganiza-
tions of the Department of Agriculture and Livestock since the inception of
the project in 1983 to 1988. These reorganizations culminated into the
followings some ASSP positions which were identified at appraisal were either
abolished, reclassified, or not created or transferred to other Divisio..;s in
DAL or other Departments, e.g., Fisheries.  These three reorganizations dis-
oriented staff in the DAL and disrupted continuity in achievements which in
the long run demoralized the staff.
18.       Lack of Adequate Support and ComMitment by DAL Executives.  Lack of
adequate support and commitment by DAL Executive has been cited as one of the
contributing factors which negatively affected the effectiveness of ASSP. For
example, the position of Project Coordinator was never filled by a permanent
appointee after the contract of an expatriate Project Coordinator expired.
Three Project Coordinators were consecutively appointed in acting capacities
on an ad hoc basis. These Coordinators had no administrative authority to
coordinate effectively with the Component Managers. For instance, one of the
Coordinators who acted longest in the post was on Clerk Class 6 according to
the Directors of Divisions in the DAL hierarchy who report to the Secretary.
Under this situation, the Component Managers felt reluctant to report to a
Coordinator who in practice was their subordinate. This partly contributed to
the delays in the submission of expenditure reports on ASSP components and



- 20 -
this often led to the inability of the ASSP coordinating office to submit
timely disbursement claims to the World Bank.
19.       Inadequacy of Management Capacita.  Moreover, the project designers
failed to gauge correctly whether the available management and coordination
capacity within DAL would be adequate enough to implement ASSP. The low loan
utilization levels, delays in submitting disbursement claims, the weak intra
Divisional and interdepartmental linkages, indicate that the management capa-
city in DAL was at best inadequate to ensure smooth implementation of ASSP.
Sustainability of Project Achievements
20.       Crop Research.  In terms of the objectives that ASSP would improve
institutional capacity of DAL so that it can provide efficient agricultural
services to the province, there is a paucity of evidence to indicate any
significant transference of technical skills to the provinces or strengthening
of institutional capacity in DAL as a direct consequence of ASSP. However, in
a survey of opinions on the development of capacity in Crop Research as result
of the ASSP, over 502 of respondents indicated that the hiring of consultants
have helped to give leadership and direction in crop research.
21.       The extent to which capacity in research was increased by ASSP is,
however, not easily discernible. The fact that only 202 of the total number
of researchers who were to be trained under ASSP were actually trained illXs-
trates the degree to which ASSP was unable to fully utilize its resources to
increase capacity for crop research.  This evidence also supports the views
expressed by respondents that the gains in research capacity is ephemeral
because National researchers had not been adequately trained to ensure con-
tinuing in research. The ephemeral nature of the capacity gains in research
may be exemplified by the inability of the Crop Research DIvision to publish
any annual reports since 1986 after departure of the author/consultant of the
1983 annual report which was published in 1986.
22.       Agricultural Planning, Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation.  The
impact of ASSP in developing staff capabilities in agricultural planning in
both DAL and provincial DPIs have been imperceptible even though training
through workshops were conducted in agricultural planning in all the
provinces. The training vas ad hoc, lacked continuity and coverage in respect
to spread to the provinces. However, an important achievement of the ASSP was
the development of a sustainable capacity in monitoring and evaluation in DAL.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) was significantly strengthened with
consultancy services provided under the ASSP. The MEU of DAL continues to
produce DAL's quarterly reports after the departure of Monitoring and
Evaluation consultants provided under ASSP.
23.       Consultancy Services.  Some of the major priorities of ASSP
included: the use of consultants to work with counterparts in order to trans-
fer experience and skills which can be used after the departure of consul-
tants. These were to be accomplished through timely recruitment of skilled
overseas staff to ASSP funded positions within the first two years of the
project life with the assistance of consultancv firms. The recruitment of
skilled personnel by the consultancy firm has been slow and untimely even
though some consultants were recruited to provide in-house training in agri-



- 21 -
cultural planning, project preparation, monitoring and evaluation and in crop
research.
24.       The effectiveness of the services provided by consultants have been
mixed. In a survey of opinion on the effectiveness of consultants over 702 of
respondents indicated that most of the consultants were operationally ineffec-
tive and contributed little to i.ncrease technical capacities in DAL. However,
exceptional mentions of the effectiveness of consultants in the monitoring and
evaluation as well as in crop research were made.
25.       The ineffectiveness of the consultants have been attributed to the
following:
(a) high turnover and discontinuity in consultancy services. Consul-
tants did not stay long in positions to provide any meaningful and
significant inputs in training and transfer of technical skills;
(b) the employer (Department of Agriculture and Livestock) did not fully
utilize the abilities of consultants. DAL did not indicate clearly
to whom the consultants reported directly, no definite job descrip-
tions and specific tasks were given to consultants, rather consul-
tants were used to accomplish tasks on an ad hoc basis in a classic
'crisis management" style.
(c) difficulties which were encountered in appointing counterpart staff
for consultants. It is interesting to note that up to date no coun-
terpart staff have been identified for full attachment to ASSP con-
sultAnts due to compliance to government policy on manpower
ceilings;
(d) delays in bureaucratic procedures to recruit overseas and national
staff. especially in the issue of visas, housing and selection of
applicants.
(e) friction and antagonism between the consultants and some national
staff. Some national officers did not get on well with some of the
Consultants. This generated an environment of anxiety, rejection
and negativism which were not conducive to the efficient performance
of the consultants.
Lessons and Recommendations for the Future
26.       The success of the training component of ASSP, in terms of the
degree of its impact especially on increasing staff productivity and
efficiency has been rather limited. 'While this may be traced back to struc-
tural and institutional problems in the Department of Agriculture and
Livestock and the whole structure of the Papua New Guinea Public Service, this
report intends to highlight on a number of ways in which both the Wo-ld Bank
and the Government of Papua New Guinea may improve their performance to ensure
that future projects achieve their intended objectives.
27.       Institutional Constraints and Framework,.  Preparation of institu-
tional strengthening projects like ASSP should start by an analysis of



- 22 -
constraints on institutional development. Using development plans and govern-
ment efforts in the institutional development and what is needed to assist
them in securing their gains. In particular, estimates of future manpower
needs in the DAL should be assessed in light of possible policy changes. It
should then be possible to make a reasonable forecast of manpower requirements
and the need if any, for new types of training. The project proposal should
then be related to the outcome of the above analysis. It should be determined
whether the proposed project correctly identifies priority need for trained
manpower and whether the project proposal actually addresses itself to the
major deficiencies in the existing Department of Agriculture and Livestock.
28.       Proiect Obiectives, Effects and Impacts.  A basic deficiency of the
ASSP was that the project objectives, effects and impacts were not specific.
The project objectives were not clearly analyzed for each of the components to
indicate what are to be achieved. Effects and impact of the ASSP were not
clearly outlined in the project document. These essential linkages between
inputs, outputs, effects and impact should be carefully identified and speci-
fied as part of the project preparation exercise. Qualitative and quantita-
tive indicators relevant to the project should be provided in the project
document to ensure appropriate monitoring and evaluation of the project com-
ponents.
29.       Project Inputs:  Consultancy and Fellowship.  The training inputs
provided under ASSP depended primarily on the recruitment of expatriate per-
sonnel and award fellowships to National Officers. The delays in providing
training the ineffectiveness of consultants suggest the following for the
future.
(a) Better Definition of Consultants AssiRnments. Most of the Consul-
tants were contracted under the ASSP, this was not possible either
because National staff were unavailable or the National staff were
not trained. In addition, the consultants were given tasks on an ad
hoc basis that precluded any effort by the consultants to train
National staff. It is important to clearly spell out the job
descriptions of consultants and also the amount of time and effort
to be devoted by consultants to training of counterparts. These
should be explicitly spelt out to ensure that the achievement of
training of staff and transfer of technical skills take place simul-
taneously.
(b) Provide Guidelines on Appropriate Trainins Courses. In the case of
ASSP, the number of manmonths expended on seminars and short-term
courses were more than on long-term postgraduate courses. The value
and benefits of some of the short course in increasing staff
efficiency and productivity were doubtful. It appears that short
courses, seminars, conferences were a more popular choice than the
long-term postgraduate courses. This bias can be traced to the fact
that no definite guidelines on the type of course to be attended by
ASSP trainees were explicitly spelled out in the project documents.
The World Bank, in fact, on an occasion rejected reimbursement
claims in respect of expenditures incurred on short courses,
seminars. The claims which were for training costs were considered



- 23 -
to be inappropriate for disbursement under ASSP. Guidelines should
be provided on types of courses in future projects.
(c) Time Frame of ASSP. It has been realized that institutional
development projects which are training oriented take longer periods
to achieve their impacts yet projects such which are designed to
achieve comprehensive changes in skill and transfer of technical
knowledge are planned only with a short term time perspective. It
should be recognized that institution building projects may span
over one to two decades before the planned improvement institutional
capacities may be realized. It is important that a long-term pers-
pective is adopted from the onset at the project design stage.
30.       Policy Environment of Proiject.  All development efforts carried out
in a country will, of course, be affected by the policies adopted by its
government. Therefore, it cannot be taken for granted that when the projects
are proposed, the institutions to implement them will also exist. It may be
noted that governments may express their best of intentions in their policies
but these may not be matched by a corresponding institutional capacity for
implementation. Policies on staff recruitment, visa authorizations, housing
and remunerations should be streamlined to facilitate prompt recruitment of
expatriate and national officers.



- 24 -
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1
Project Timetable
Date        Date              Date
Item                               Planned       Revised     Actual
- Identification
(Issues Paper)                         (09182)                   (09/82)
- Preparation/Pre-appraisal                                        (04/82)
- Appraisal Mission                       08/82                     06/82
- Loan/Credit Negotiations                                          03/83
- Board Approval                                                    05183
- LoanlCredit Signature                                             07/83
- Loan/Credit Closing                     06188         06/89       06/89
- Loan/Credit Completion                  06/88         06/89       06/89
Comments:  (Issues raises at each stage of project cycle)



- 25 -
Table 2
Loan/Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990
Appraisal Estimate             1.8   4.9   8.8  12.0  14.1   0.0    0.0
Actual                         0.1   0.6   1.4   2.2   5.8   7.7    8.41
Actual as X of Estimate        52    122   162   182   412   54Z    602
Date of Final Disbursement    November 22, 1989
(1) Cancellations: $5.6 million in September 1987, due to slow implementation
and exchange rate changes.
$0.06 million at date of Loan account closure.



- 26 -
Table 3
Proiect Implementation
---------------------------.-_-----------------------__-------------
Indicators                               Appraisal      Actual
Estimate
-------------------------------------------------------------__------
RECRUITMENT & HIRING OF STAFF
(NO. OF STAFF)
Expatriate                                   24            16
National                                    136            74
CIVIL ORKS (NO. OF UNITS
CROP RESEARCH COMPONENT
Insect Store                                  1             1
EIlectrification of Water Supply              0             1
Office & Laboratory Buildings                 0             3
Machinery Shed                                0             1
Water Reticulation System                     0             1
Green Houses - Propagation & Trials           0             2
High Covenant Houses                          7            17
Low Covenant Houses                           6            26
Middle Covenant Houses                       38             0
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION & TRANING
cONENS
Conversion of Science Classroom to
Science Laboratory                           1            1
Dormitory                                     1             1
Audio Visual Storeroom                        0             1
Office Complex                                1             1
Ablution Block                                1             1
Laundry Block                                 0             1
Upgrading of Existing Dormitories             1             2
Upgrading of PMTP Facilities                  0             2
LIVESTOCK SERVICES COMPONENT
Central Laboratory for Infectious Diseases    1             1
Dangerous Chemical Store                      0             1
Low Covenant Houses for Animal Diseases
Surveillance                                 9             8
Upgrading Existing Low Covenant Houses        0             2
TRANSIT STAFF HOUSING                         3             4
CONSULTANCIES (man-month)
(Including CSIRO Program)                   155          292
FELLOWSHIPS (No. of Fellows)
Short Term Courses (3-8 Months)             21              ?
Long Term Courses (12-30 Months)            37              ?



- 27 -
Table 4
Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
Local   Foreign   Total    *Local  Foreign  Total
Item                 --US$ m -------- ___-_--US$ m---------
Coordination Unit             0.0       0.0      0.0        0.33    0.10    0.43
Crop Research                 2.4       2.4      4.8        2.21    1.43    3.64
Agric. Extension Support and
Agricultural Education &
Training                    2.3       1.9      4.2        1.21    0.93    2.14
Planning and Economics        0.9       1.5      2.4        0.44    0.44    0.88
Land Utilization Services &
Agric. Project Dev.         1.3       1.2      2.5        1.10    0.33    1.43
Livestock Services            0.5       0.5      0.9        0.55    0.22    0.77
Quarantine Services           0.5       0.2      0.7        0.22    0.11    0.33
Plantation Management
and Training                0.2       0.2      0.4        0.22    0.11    0.33
Transit Staff Housing         0.1       0.1      0.2        0.04    0.07    0.11
Monitoring & Evaluation       0.1       0.1      0.2        0.0      0.0     0.0
Fellowship                    0.0       1.4      1.4        0.44    0.55    0.99
Consultancies                 0.0       1.2      1.2        0.22    3.31    3.53
University of Technology      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.11    0.33    0.44
Base Cost                     8.2      10.6     18.8        7.09    7.93   15.02
Physical Contingencies        0.4       0.9      1.3
Price Contingencies           1.7       2.5      4.2
Total Project Cost           10.3      14.0     24.3
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan   0.0        0.1      0.1        0.0     0.11    0.11
Total Financing Required    10.3       14.1     24.4        7.09    8.04   15.13
*  An average exchange rate of $l.1034/Kina was used.
Average exchange rate during period of project implementation fluctuated
between $1.10249 and $1.1535 to the PNG Kina.



- 28 -
Table 5
Project Financing
Planned
(LoanlCredit)
Source            Agreement       Revised      Final    Comments
--------------US$  000-----------
IBRDIIDA Expenditure
Categories                14.1                     8.5
Co-i .nancing
Institutions               0.0                     0.0
Other External
Sources                    0.0                     0.0
Domestic                    10.3                     6.6
Total                   24.4                    15.1



- 29 -
Table 6
Studies
Purpose as defined                  Impact of
at appraisal         Status        Study
Studiest
1. Summary Reports        Review & summaries      Completed   Good - used for
for Crop Research       research results                   program planning
1973-1982
2. Land Evaluation        Resource inventory &   Completed   Good - used for
assessment of land                  planning purposes
potential
Comments:



- 30 -
Table 7
Status of Loan Covenants
AGREEMENT  TYPE OF  UPDATE  CUR ST                             CURRENT COVENANT
SECTION  COVENANT  DATE    CODE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT      STATUS DESC.
Loan Art.
4.02(C)            08115189  2     Furnish to the Bank not        Complied
later than 6 months after
the end of each year a certi-
fied copy of the auditor's
report.
STATUS CODE:
1 - UNAVAILABLE               5 - TO BE WAIVED/DELETED
2 - IN COMPLIANCE             6 - NO LONGER RELEVANT
3 - PARTIALLY IN COMPLIANCE   7 - TO BE AMENDED
4 - NOT IN COMPLIANCE         8 = NOT YET DUE



31 -
Use of Bank Resources                    Table R
A. STAFFINII
EL             82  laa   a   a   a    as IL
Pr.ppr.l)al   8t.1   -    -                                86.1
Appealea      2.S   68.2  -      -      -     -      -    66.7
bogot1^46ion    -    8.1   -            -     -             8.1
Supervision   -      .5   7.5   5.5  16.8  12.7   7.5  52.0
Other         -      .6   -      -      -     -      -       .5
TOTAL         86.6  578  7.5   5.5  16.8  12.7   ?.5  147.4
B. Hissions
Speciali-   Perform.
Stage of      Month/   No. of    Days       zation       rating    Type of
project cycle    year    persons in field  Represent/a  status   problems/c
APR              07/82        3                 E,A,A
Negotiations    03/83
Effectiveness   10/83
Supervision      08/83       1        10          A         1/1          M
03/84       1         5         A          2/1          M
12/84       1         5         E          212          M
04/85       1        11         A          2/2          F, H
11/85       1         7         AE          3           M
04/86       2        12         AE, AE      3           H
07/86       1         9         A           3           M
03/87       2         9         A. AE       3           M
04/88       1         8         A           3           M
04/89       1         9         A           3           M
/a  Key to Specialization: A-Agriculturalist;  AE=Agricultural Economist;
E=Engineer
/b  Key to Status:  l=Problem free or minor problems; 2-Moderate problems;
3-Major problems
Ic  Key to Problems:  F-Financial; MHManagerial; T-Technical; P-Political;
o-Other



IRIAN   JAYA  (INDONESIA)
...... ...'7-- --- 
[~~~~~ ''S                                                          N 
_____________ /5                                                           / 15                         1
c/ I                                                                             -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -
IV,I 
-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -----                -----               -  N            
4   ,.   t   ..   s.,   r                    .  i K  
I~~~~~~I
j~~~~~~~~~b
I                .1~~~~1
I  -~~~~C
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
IIA~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~:  N ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     c 
8~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;  ,;,|         
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -   ,    __U
cn>-
i~~~~.1 Li   2 f          
|i|l|lj   gR                         ;          
t                                                                         0~~~~~Ir
IIitI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~i'i   ~~~~~~~~~~~                    -~~~~~~~    7~~~a



