Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3518-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
US$14.1 MILLION
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
April 12, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
Calendar 1981    October 1982
US$1.00        =  K 0.67             K 0.77
K 1.00         =  US$1.487           US$1.30
K 1 million   =  US$1,487,000        US$1,300,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)             =  2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) =  0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acris
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCL       -  Bougainville Copper, Ltd.
CPI       -  Consumer Price Index
CSIRO     -  Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization
DPI       -  Department of Primary Industry
FAO/CP    -  Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ICO       -  International Coffee Organization
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
ISNAR     -  International Service for National Agricultural Research
NPEP      -  National Public Expenditure Plan
NPO       -  National Planning Office
PNlG      -  Papua New Guinea
PSC       -  Public Service Commission
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Beneficiaries:  Department of Primary Industry (DPI)
Amount:          US$14.1 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:           Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable rate.
Financing
Terms:         The proceeds of the loan would be allocated to DPI through
the National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP) and through
budget allocations. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk and the interest rate risk.
Project
Description:  The project would expand and improve the country's agricul-
tural support services in the areas of research, education
and training, extension services, sector planning, agricul-
tural project development and regulatory services. The
loan would finance expenditures for civil works; equipment,
furniture and vehicles; salaries of expatriate and national
staff; travel and subsistence expenses; operational expenses,
such as materials and supplies, utilities, leasing and
operation of vehicles; consultancies; and fellowships. If
properly implemented, the project would be essentially
risk-free. Uncertainties relate essentially to project
implementation, such as the expeditious recruitment of
necessary staff and close cooperation between the central
and provincial agricultural services. Recognizing this, the
Government has agreed to employ professional recruitment
agents and to adopt gradually the proposed research/extension
approach in the provinces.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs:/a                                        Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million)  -----
Crop Research                          2.4        2.4           4.8
Aigricultural Education
and Training                         1.3        1.1          2.4
Planning and Economics                 0.9        1.5           2.4
Agricultural Extension
Support                              1.0        0.8          1.8
Land Utilization Services              0.8        0.6           1.4
Agricultural Project Development    0.5           0.6           1.1
Livestock Services                      0.5       0.5           0.9
Quarantine Services                    0.5        0.2           0.7
P'lantation Management
and Training                         0.2        0.2          0.4
Transit Staff Housing                  0.1         -            0.1
Y.onitoring and Evaluation             0.1         0.1          0.2
Fellowships                             -         1.4           1.4
Consultancies                           -         1.2           1.2
Base Cost                           8.2       10.6         18.8
Physical contingencies                 0.4        0.9           1.3
Price contingencies                     1.7       2.5           4.2
Total Project Cost                 10.3       14.0         24.3
Frocnt-End Fee Uii sank loan             -O.                    0.1
Total Financing Required           10.3       14.1         24.4
t Lnancing Plan:                                        Local      Foreign      Total
-----  (US$ million)  -----
IBRD                                    -        14.1          14.1
Government                            10.3         -           10.3
Total Financing Provided           10.3       14.1         24.4
Estimated Disbursements: Bank FY:  1984   1985          1986       1987         1988
-------- (US$ million equivalent) --------
Annual                1.8    3.1       3.9        3.2           2.1
Cumulative            1.8    4.9       8.8       12.0          14.1
/a Including taxes and duties, equivalent to about US$1.1 million.



- iii -
Rate of Return: The benefits of the project are difficult to quantify.  Elence
no rate of return has been calculated.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4243-PNG dated April 8, 1983.
Map No.:          IBRD 16740



I
I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for the equivalent of
US$14.1 million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance
an agricultural support services project. The loan will have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNG), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
that report and subsequent. economic missions, and draws from recent IMF work
on Papua New Guinea (PNG).
Structure of the Economy
3.         Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains', rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest
urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita
GDP in 1981 was US$786. The population as of mid-1982 was about 3.0 million,
spread among 19 provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000),
each with its own parliament and separate administrative apparatus.
4.         The modern sector of the economy is dominated by copper mining and
associated investments and by the public sector. In the late 1970s copper,
through Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL), accounted for about 15% of GDP; by
1982 this had fallen to 6.5% as prices declined sharply and as the more pro-
ductive veins were being exhausted. The Ok Tedi mine is thought to have
contributed about 3% to GDP in 1982 (largely through capital investments);
this is expected to grow to perhaps 12% of GDP in 1987, thus more than
compensating for the decline in BCL. Non-mining industry accounts for about
9% of GDP -- low for a country of PNG-s per capita income -- while government
services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the upper ranks, account for
about one-quarter of the total. Strikingly, the primary sector, which
employs about 85% of the labor force, only contributes about 35% of GDP,
a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.



-2-
5.         PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annum despite
the strong growtlh in copper exports. The latter half of the decade was even
worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% per annum) despite some good years,
particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the seventies
were roughly neutral. However, the years 1980 and 1981 showed an average
decline of per capita income of about 4% per year, and in these years the
terms of trade effect did begin to bite as the Government cut back services
and restricted the growth in the money supply to protect the balance of
payments and the value of the Kina. The terms of trade effect was a negative
10% of GDP in 1981; the terms of trade loss is expected to have worsened to
about 15% percent of GDP in 1982 and to improve only slightly over the
following five years. Growth, on the other hand, is expected by the
Government to average 4.5% through 1987 (2.2%° per capita), largely because
of investments (direct and induced) and exports associated with the Ok Tedi
mine. While growth rates are likely to improve somewhat as a result of the
impact of Ok Tedi, continued poor agricultural performance, together with a
prudent demand management policy (to protect the balance of payments as well
as the value of the Kina) may result in continued sluggish growth. Although
PNG is now actively seeking to reduce real wages to stimulate investments,
this policy -- imposed at a time of austerity -- may not succeed if the
demand for labor arising from the construction of the Ok Tedi mine and
related activities gives renewed impetus to wage demands.
6.         The economy has been severely affected by the sharp drop in
commodity prices that began in 1980. The price of copper dropped to its
lowest level in 30 years, leading to a drop of K 60 million in the Mineral
Resources Stabilization Fund reserves between 1981 and 1983. The prices of
agricultural export commodities have fallen by half since the late 1970s.
Lower export receipts will depress economic activity and reduce imports.
Exports are not expected to regain their 1979 level until 1984, when gold will
begin to be exported from the Ok Tedi mine. After taking account of the
budget support grant from Australia, the current account deficit in 1982 is
estimated to have been about US$430 million, or about 9% of GDP. With other
official and private capital flows as projected, the expected deficits will
be covered without undue strain on reserves or the debt-service ratio. The
role of the Australian grant is significant in supporting higher levels of
government expenditures, GDP and imports than would otherwise be possible
with PNG-s own resources.
7.         In view of the fact that most of its export prices have been subject
to fluctuations, often sharp, the Government has taken a number of measures
to reduce the impact on the general economy and on the producers of export
crops. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to smooth the
impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabilization funds for
coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscillations in prices
received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural products have
had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they have
contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they



-3-
have shielded producers from income declines, and their total resources are
still relatively healthy as a result of substantial levies accumulating in the
late 1970s, when export prices were at historical highs.
8.         Following the establishment, prior to independence from Australia
in 1975, of the Minimum Wage Boards between 1972 and 1976, real minimum
wages more than doubled in that period, giving PNG the highest wage costs of
the developing countries in the region. Since independence, two three-year
wage agreements have limited the rise of both public and private sector
wages to that of the consumer price index, subject to a present annual
maximum of 11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real wages that
occurred during 1972-76. The wage situation was accompanied by a "hard
Kina" policy causing the Kina to appreciate vis-a-vis PNIG-s major trading
partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands and keeping down
prices of imports (40% of GDP by value). This tended to offset somewhat
imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price levels has
averaged about 7.5% between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the interna-
tional inflation index of 8.7%. Price levels over 1981-82 have moderated
further to about 4.5%, which is probably as much a reflection of the fall in
business activity as it is of the moderation of import prices.
9.         Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government has decided to seek to impose a three-year
freeze on urban wages. This measure, which may be politically difficult to
implement, will involve a strategy by which the first five percentage points
of domestic inflation would not be compensated; thus a 5% increase in the
CPI could not be compensated at all, and a 13% increase in the CPI would be
compensated by an 8% wage increase. Youths up to 19 years of age would only
be paid 50% of the basic wage. This policy, if successful, should tend to
restore profits and land rents, and should begin to improve the relative
competitiveness of Papua New Guinea-s exports.
10.        The Government has also responded to its straitened circumstances
by raising taxes in 1982 and 1983 in face of a deflationary situation,
lowering government expenditure by 10% in the latter year, and laying off
3,000 employees, about 6% of the total public service. Nonetheless, the
public deficit in 1983 is expected to reach K 163 million, or 10% of
estimated GDP, about the same relative gap as resulted in 1982. As was the
case in 1982, none of this will be financed by borrowing from the Central
Bank. Borrowings from foreign commercial banks are expected to amiount to
about US$80 million in 1983, as compared with US$100 million in 1982.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.        In the post-independence period a concerted effort was made to
define a set of economic and social priorities according to which government
resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more weight has been



-4-
given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-making process
for the budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and
implementation of a comprehensive development plan. While a "National
Development Strategy" has been defined and strategic objectives identified
as the basis for resource allocation, these have not represented a basis for
a growth-oriented development strategy as such.
12.       The NNational Development Strategy instead places a high priority on
improving the quality of life for the rural population, focusing on rural
development in the less developed areas of the country. A second objective
is the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at reducing
the present, very heavy, reliance on aid and leading towards economic self-
reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural potential
of the country, but also the fact that for quite a few generations the
agricultural sector will be the main source of income generation and employ-
ment. The second objective, while not directly benefiting the vast majority
of the population, is intended to provide a resource base for the financing of
development programs. Implementation of the second objective clearly entails
the importing of foreign capital and expertise, for which PNG has been very
open -- particularly with respect to minerals investments.
13.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year
plan for the public sector which focuses politicaL decision making on nine
strategic objectives and the tradeoffs among them.. While the basic aims of
the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall economic policy and
to direct public spending to the activities that have the highest national
priority, its coverage is limited to new projects and forward planning is
only carried out for one year. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the
1978 expenditures (K20 million), but subsequent plans have been covering
increasing portions of the budget as government revenues have grown. In the
1983 budget, the TPEP encompassed more than one-quarter of total expendi-
tures. Implementation of NPEP projects has been delayed by lack of staff
and experience, but the record is gradually improving. In effect, the NPEP
process emphasizes the management of recurrent costs associated with capital
projects, but is not, strictly speaking, geared tc development.
Development_Issues
14.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the decentralization of government activi-
ties, the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial
resources, and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation
and investment in the agricultural sector.
15.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing interferes with the ability of the provinces to



-5-
develop their own plans. PNG-s topography has made it a country of
scattered tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of
political decentralization was a necessary response to secessionist
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the National
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through national
government conditional and unconditional grants, national government refunds
of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own taxation
measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to
their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance; but
while in the 1982 budget they comprised over 70% of the total receipts of
the provinces, they amounted to less than one-quarter of total national
government revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial
governments is the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most
urgent priority of the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting,
planning, and project identification and preparation.
16.        Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled
manpower and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has
made substantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals,
especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its
first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country still relies
heavily on expatriates for many necessary services. This situation has
created a relatively high-cost government and a dependence on the Australian
grant (now equal to about 10% of GDP) to help meet these costs. In the
public sector, localization has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to
80% in 1971, but at the higher levels of skill, requiring post-secondary
education, the proportion of nationals is still only around 40%. The
shortage of qualified staff is reflected in the existing vacancies in
government, and in some departments the shortages of professionals are
critical. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing staff, and the policy of localizing positions held by
expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua Ilew Guineans. While
various training programs have been established to fill these needs, they
have thus far proved inadequate.
17.       The Government s efforts to attain financial self-reliance emphasize
modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure accom-
panied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid from Australia. Domestic
revenue accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68, 60% of
the total in FY76 (immediately after independence); and 68% in 1981. Over
the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has been a major source of
domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and reaching a peak of 27% in
FY76, but falling to 6.5% in 1982. While mineral revenues will be largely
restored when the Ok Tedi mine becomes fully operational in 1984, revenues
from these sources may not regain their former share of overall revenues.



- 6 -
Thus if agricultural commodity prices remain depressed, the Government may
well have considerable difficulty in managing a more rapid phase-out of
Australian aid after 1985/86.
18.      Capital expenditures (including those financed by external assist-
ance) as a share of the total budget have been relatively modest. While
these expenditures doubled between 1978 and 1980 (to reach 15,' of the total
budget), they dropped by one-third in 1981 and have stagnated at those
nominal levels -- 9-10% of the total budget -- since then.  While in the
past the availability of the Australian grant, together with substantial
revenue from the mining sector may have contributed to a certain laxity in
financial discipl:ine in the area of current expenditures (particularly for
wages and salaries), this situation no longer prevails.  Even with fairly
substantial increases in taxes over the period (but excluding the Australian
grant) government revenues stagnated between 1980 and 1983, and the
Government is undertaking a 10% cut in current and capital expenditures and
substantive reduction of the size of the public service.
19.       While economic management has been largely sound and a nominal
framework for planning economic development has been evolved, the country½s
growth performance: has been disappointing, averaging somewhat less than the
rate of population growth over the 1970s. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future.  Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, investment in the sector remains low, and! its prospects for the
coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster its growth.
The major constraints have been inadequate extensiorn services for small-
holders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation of
holdings too small for economic redevelopment, a shortage of managerial
talent, and legislation designed to encourage the transfer of foreign-owned
plantations to Papua New Guineans, which has been a serious disincentive to
reinvestment. The Government recognizes the gravity of the situation and
has taken some initiatives to improve it, including suspension of the
plantation redistribution legislation, measures to supply management skills
to Papua New Guinean-owned estates, and steps to reorganize extension
services. The country faces a particularly serious problem in the area of
coffee. Production of this crop has fared better than other major agricul-
tural exports, with production now about 50% over quota. Unfortunately,
sales to the non-ICO market bring a price 40% below the ICO price. The
Government recognizes this problem and intensive studies on crop
diversification will be undertaken.
External Sector
20.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quarter
of GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were



- 7 -
only about one-third as high.  Since FY73, however, earnings from copper
exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small
deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive, despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months
worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline in
the copper content of the Bougainville mine and contained inflation in the
import sector have dramatically changed the situation, with the current
account turning from a positive K55 million in 1979 to a negative K260 million
(15% of GDP) in 1981.
21.       The current account position is likely to be in poor shape until
the end-1983 at least, with the deficit up by 75% -- and assuming the
Australian grant below the line -- between 1980 and 1982. This will be the
case not only because of the adverse commodity price situation, but also
because requirements for the construction of Ok Tedi will cause imports to
grow faster than exports. Especially with the help of Ok Tedi gold exports
and continuing conservative demand management, exports will begin again to
exceed imports and the resource balance will turn positive by the mid-1980s.
PNG is likely to require an average net capital inflow of over US$200 million
p.a. (in 1981 prices) through 1990, but the bulk of it will come in 1981-86,
when the minerals sector will finance over half of the inflow through direct
foreign investment and borrowing. If the rest of the capital requirement is
met by concessional loans and through official borrowing on terms similar to
those recently obtained by the Government in world capital markets, the
result would be a small increase in debt service requirements. Assuming
a small improvement in growth rates (to 3.5% p.a.), debt service ratios would
rise to about 10% by mid-decade (the 1981 level was 6.1%) to fall to around
3% in 1990. Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1981
amounted to US$757.0 million, of which US$191 million (25%) was owed to the
Bank Group. Debt service payments to the Bank group are only 11% of total
debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       As of March 31, 1983, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 10 loans and 13 development credits, totalling US$213.9 million.
The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved
in 1968; more recently, a petroleum exploration technical assistance project
of US$3.0 million was approved by the Board in July 1982. Project implementa-
tion has been satisfactory, though the first rural development project in
the Southern Highlands experienced some difficulties with recruitment of
essential expatriate staff. The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the
transitional problems of recruiting and training their replacements led



- 8 -
to delays in project monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has
progressed approximately on schedule. As of March 31, 1983, eight credits
and six loans were fully disbursed, and the loans and credits to Papua New
Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$198.1 million as of
February 28, 1983.  Annex II contains a sumnary statement of Bank loans and
IDA credits as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
with strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy.
The Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives:
(a) support for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) develop-
ment of large-scale opportunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based
on the substantial agricultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion
of human resource development. In FY83, along with the Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project referred to above, a US$31.0 mi:Llion loan for a Road
Improvement Project was submitted to the Board in Akpril. A third agricul-
ture credit project and a secondary education project are under appraisal.
24.        The proposed project will strengthen support services to the agri-
culture sector, by providing for the reorganization and strengthening of the
Department of Primary Industry (DPI) and the expansion and strengthening of
the program for plantation management training.
25.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were managed by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate for FY82 was 11.5%, compared to an
average of 38.5% for FY77-81. Disbursement rates for selected comparators
for FY77-81 were as follows:  Columbia - 23.3%; Philippines - 19.3%;
Morrocco - 20.1% and Benin - 30.0%. It does not seem possible to determine
a trend since low disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement
year, then another low disbursement year. PNG's disbursement figures reflect
periodic disbursements of substantial amounts against particular large
projects rather than steady disbursements for all projects.
III. AGRICULTURE AND ITS SUPPORT SERVICES
Agriculture in PNG
26.       With a land area of 500,000 sq km and a 1980 population of about
3 million growing at about 2.3% p.a. PNG is sparsely populated and the
considerable agricultural potential only partly utilized. While agriculture



- 9 -
contributes only about one-third to the country's GDP and about 40a to its
exports, most of the country-s rural population /1 depend on agriculture for
their livelihood. The dominant role of this sector as employer and source
of income for the great majority of the people will continue in the
foreseeable future. What is changing is the Government-s recognition of the
role agriculture will play in general economic development and budget
allocations are now reflecting the importance of agriculture.
27.        Papua New Guinea's diverse topography has resulted in the formation
of numerous isolated environments, particularly in the Highlands region, each
with its own set of climatic, soil and other natural conditions, and with a
matching multitude of plant varieties. The geographic fragmentation has also
given rise to the development of numerous- isolated communities which are
separated from one another by physical as well as linguistic and cultural
barriers. This natural and human diversity poses considerable problems for
administration in general and specific functions such as agricultural research
and extension in particular.
28.       Agriculture follows three modes of production:  the plantations
numbering about 900, originally foreign-owned and managed but now increasingly
in Papua Nlew Guinean hands; smallholder cash cropping; and subsistence pro-
duction from shifting cultivation, with considerable overlap among the last
two. The most important cash crops are oil palm, copra, coffee, cocoa, with
minor quantities of rubber and tea. Over the last ten years, the estate
sector, with the important exception of oil palm and coffee, has declined
while smallholder production, except for copra, has followed an upward
trend. However, this progress in smallholder cash cropping was accompanied
by a de' erioration on the foodcrop side as evidenced by a marked increase in
food imports, particularly of rice.
29.       The estate sector has stagnated mainly because of the uncertainty
about land ownership and land use rights which has kept many expatriate
planters from investing in the sector for a much-needed rehabilitation. Other
difficulties are the lack of managerial and financial expertise in cases where
plantations have reverted to national management, agricultural wages that are
high in comparison with competing countries and an unfavorable world market
situation.
30.       Development Objectives and Strategy.  The main goals of agricul-
tural development in PNG are: to reduce food imports and to broaden
agricultural exports as well as to improve the livelihood of rural families.
The Government-s recent recognition of the importance of agriculture is
manifest in a wide area: in the greater flexibility of the Government on
expatriate ownership and management of plantations, in the formulation of
a national food and nutrition policy recognizing the important role of
/1 The 1980 Population Census established that 87% of the country-s people
lived in rural areas.



- 10 -
traditional agriculture and in the explicit realization that for agriculture
to advance on a broad front, an improvement in support services is
imperative.
The Bank-s Role
31.        Since the country-s independence in 1975 the World Bank has
supported agricultural development in PNG through four projects:  (a) nucleus
estate development -- Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project
(Ln. 1333-PNG), US$12 million, effective January 6, 1977; (b) integrated
rural development -- Southern Highlands Rural Development (Cr. 841-PNG),
US$20 million, effective February 26, 1979; Enga Provincial Development Pro-
ject (Ln. 2125/Cr. 1227-PNG), US$6 million/2 million, effective September 16,
1982; and (c) agricultural credit -- Second Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr. 1149-PNG), US$15 million, effective May 26, 1982.
32.        In 1981 the Bank undertook a large-scale review of the agricultural
program in PNG.  As a result, it was decided to focus future assistance on
rehabilitation and diversification of the tree crop sector; nucleus estate
projects to assist smallholders; and rural development projects. The
success of all such efforts will depend on vastly improved support services.
Agriculture Support Services
33.        Agricultural support services in PNG are provided by a number of
Government and nongovernmental agencies, with the largest and most important
contribution coming from the Department of Primary Industry (DPI). DPI is
headed by a Minister and a Secretary, and consists cf the following branches:
Planning, Economics and Marketing; Policy, Review and Coordination; and
Fisheries which report directly to the Secretary. The Branches for
Management Services; Agriculture; Livestock; and Education and Training
report through a Deputy Secretary. The recent devolution of administrative
responsibilities to the 19 provinces brought about a reorganization of DPI,
with about two thirds of the staff being transferred to the provinces. The
most important function shifted to the provincial Departments of Primary
Industry was agricultural extension, and the great majority of provincial
agricultural staff serve in this area. Important functions retained by the
central DPI were largely those where economies of scale militated against
provincialization, e.g., agricultural research, or where a national interest
was perceived, e.g., quality control for export crops or quarantine
services.
34.        The dismemberment of the previous DPI resulted in a serious
weakening of the country-s agricultural support services as the central
organization was drastically reduced without creating an equivalent structure
at the provincial level. In a number of cases, provincial agricultural
services were too small to permit the aggregation of a significant body of
expertise, and the fiscal basis of the provinces was seldom sufficient to



- 11 -
support an adequate development of its agricultural services. The difficul-
ties stemming from the process of administrative devolution were compounded
by the simultaneous and continuing departure of experienced expatriate
officers, by a slow decrease in the quality of general and agricultural
education, and by persistent staff shortages (at present about 600 positions
are filled on an acting basis). As a result, today-s DPI (the combined
national and provincial services) is by common consent weaker than its
unified predecessor.
Crop Research
35.       At present, crop research is spread over six sections of DPI's
Agriculture Branch: Horticulture (i.e., foodcrops), Agronomy, Agricultural
Chemistry, Land Utilization, Plant Pathology, and Entomology. Crop research
in PNG is also carried out by other Government Departments, e.g., Mines and
Energy, Industry Boards for cocoa, coffee and oil palm, the University of
Papua New Guinea, and the University of Technology. DPI has five main
stations serving major agro-climatic zones and crops, and two smaller
stations serving particular crops.
36.       Research activities extend from farming systems to crop improvement
and crop protection, and relate to a wide range of disciplines and commodi-
ties. The existing manpower situation and organization of research make it
difficult to concentrate critical masses of manpower on either the important
commodities or systems of production in both lowland and highland
agricultural situations. It has therefore been difficult for research to
generate and alapt appropriate crop production technologies that would have
an impact on increasing the productivity of both cash and food crops.
Agricultural Education and Training
37.       The training of agricultural staff is essentially the responsib-
ility of DPI's Education and Training Branch. It supervises the National
Fisheries College and four Agricultural Colleges. To bring the bulk of
provincial and central DPI staff to an acceptable technical level and to
provide them with knowledge and skills which they presently do not acquire
at the colleges, Government plans substantially to expand its in-service
training and to devote one college exclusively to that purpose.
Planning
38.       DPI-s planning and economic functions are presently undertaken by
two Branches: Planning, Economics and Marketing, and Policy Review and
Coordination. Planning work has two major orientations, provincial and
national. Provincial planning work consists of assisting, advising and
training on-the-job provincial staff and of ensuring consistency of
provincial and national planning work. This includes a monitoring and
evaluation function vis-a-vis provincial agricultural development projects.



- 12 -
39.       The performance of the economic and planning services is con-
strained, as is the case for all other DPI services, by a shortage of properly
trained and exper:ienced personnel, and by specific shortcomings in the fields
of sectoral plann:ing, monitoring and evaluation, and farm systems analysis.
A second difficulty concerns the organization of economic and planning work
in two branches, 'Leading to a somewhat artificial separation of planning,
policy and economic data collection and analysis functions. Following
suggestions made by the Bank in its 1981 review, the Government plans to
combine the marketing functions of the Planning, Economics and Marketing
branch with the Agricultural Development Section of the Agriculture Branch
to form a Development and Marketing Branch, and to combine all other
economic functions in a new Policy Planning and Coordination Branch.
Agricultural Extension Support
40.       The primary responsibility for agricultural extension has been
transferred to the provinces. However, important assistance functions such
as linkage with agricultural research, advice to provincial extension
services, staff upgrading, information and publication are located in the
Education and Training Branch of the Central DPI. PNGCs extension service
is hampered by the following: (i) the widely scattered population and the
great geographic fragmentation and resulting logistic difficulties; (ii) the
low qualifications of a great portion of the staff, and (iii) the lack of
adequate and appropriate extension packages, especially for food crops.
Because of different channels of responsibilities these problems call for a
coordinated effort: of provincial and central governments.
Land Utilization Services
41.       The Land Utilization Section of the Agriculture Branch undertakes
investigations and cataloging/mapping of PNG's physical resources, with
emphasis on soils, landforms, climate and vegetation. Its role is that of
a service and deveblopment unit, supporting other Departments and provincial
governments as well as potential investors.
42.       For many years land utilization work in PNG has received valuable
assistance from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization (CSIRO) of Australia. As the final phase of more than 30 years
of work, formulation of actual resource assessments will be financed under
the proposed project.
Agricultural Project Development
43.       The Agricultural Development Section of the Agriculture Branch is
responsible for national export crop development projects. Now DPI wishes
to increase the capacity of this section to a level where it could initiate
one to two new projects per year.



- 13 -
Livestock Services
44.       The slowdown in the development of PNG-s beef cattle industry and
the devolution of Government functions from the center to the provinces have
affected the orientation and effectiveness of DPI-s Livestock Branch. Animal
disease and pest control are gaining in importance as PNG, traditionally
free from a number of serious animal diseases, is increasingly at risk
because of the growing volume of international exchange and large-scale
development projects in the border areas.
Quarantine Services
45.       Of the agricultural support services in PNG, the least appreciated
in terms of its national importance is the quarantine inspectorate. Yet the
potential damage arising out of shortcomings of this service is obviously
much larger than for any of the other services. With its present staff and
facilities, the inspectorate is unable to carry out its responsibilities.
Only some of the country's 12 shipping ports and 3 international airports
are staffed and equipped to undertake quarantine work. Government plans to
establish new facilities in four locations while strengthening staff and
facilities at five existing stations to cope with the most urgent quarantine
needs.
Plantation Management Training
46.       The return to national ownership and management of many plantations
has revealed a serious shortage of national expertise in all aspects of
technical, commercial and financial operations. To meet this demand, a
Plantation Management Training Program has been established and under the
proposed project, assistance would be provided for a new training center.
IV. TIIE PROJECT
47.       The project was identified by the Government with Bank assistance
in November 1981 and prepared by an FAO/CP mission in May 1982. Preparatory
work for specific components was undertaken by a group of consultants
(education and training, extension support) and by ISNAR (agricultural
research). Appraisal took place in July 1982 and post-appraisal in November
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 14 to 17, 1983 with
a Government delegation led by Mr. Robert Kaul, Assistant Secretary, Depart-
ment of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4243-PNG, dated April 8,
1983) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.       The proposed project is the result of Government's realization
that a revitalization of the agriculture sector will require improvement of



- 14 -
support services. This argument has been made in agricultural sector
reviews undertaken by FAO, IFAD and the Bank. To rneet the identified needs,
the Bank recommended and assisted in the development of the proposed
project.
49.       The project is essentially a "software project" in that it involves
a nearly 10% staff increase in DPI (136 nationals and 24 expatriates) and
an 18% increase to DPI-s annual recurrent budget, about US$3.0 million. By
providing fellowships and training it is expected that five years after
project completion, all 24 expatriates would have been replaced by nationals.
Consequently, the legal covenants necessarily relate to adequate staff and
funding.
Project Description
50.       The Project is designed to assist PNG in improving its agricultural
support services through the reorganization and strengthening of the Depart-
ment of Primary Industry by providing additional staff, vehicles, equipment,
furniture, housing, staff training, consultant services, fellowships and
operating expenses. It would consist of the following components.
Crop Research (US$4.8 million) /1
51.       The component would have four distinct elements:  the creation of
a Crop Research Division; the improvement of central research support
(laboratory services); the strengthening of DPI-s research and experiment
stations; and a post-graduate training program for national scientific
officers to staff the research organization.
52.       Crop Research Division.  The establishment: of a separate Crop
Research Division would consolidate activities now tndertaken by six
sections within the Agriculture Branch, provide all crop research with a
superstructure and expedite implementation of the other subcomponents.
53.       Central Research Support.  This subcomponent would assure an
adequate back-up of field work in the areas of: analysis; data processing and
storage; statistical analysis; identification of insect pests and diseases;
and expertise in post-harvest handling of perishable foods and in food
processing.
54.       Research and Experiment Stations.  The subcomponent would support
the concentration of research programs and of available staff on the most
important cash crops and food systems (cocoa/coconut, coffee/tea, lowland
food crops, highland food crops). Cocoa and coconut research would be
/1 Base costs are in March 1983 prices.



- 15 -
located at Keravat/Tavilo, coffee and tea research at Kuk and highland food
crop research at Aiyura. Bubia, because of land shortage and other
constraints, would not be suited to undertake the research program on lowland
food crops. Among the possible solutions is a relocation to the University
of Technology at Lae or Keravat or Latoki. DPI is presently engaged in
discussions with the cocoa and coffee industry boards, about proposals to
develop joint work programs.
55.       Research Scientist Training.  The project would provide for post-
graduate training to permit an eventual staffing by national officers of
PNG's crop research service.
Agricultural Education and Training (US$2.4 million)
56.       This component encompasses pre-service education at Certificate
and Diploma levels and in-service training of central and provincial DPI
staff. General management courses can be carried out by the Administrative
College which has considerable experience in this area. To avoid staff
constraints, the Government agreed to expedite requests for staff increases
at the College under the 1984 NPEP in order to handle the planned management
training program for DPI. If, for some reason funds should not be available,
Government agreed to prepare a modified training program which could be
carried out with the existing staff at the College.
Planning and Economics (US$2.4 million)
57.       Within DPI's Branch for Planning, Economics and Marketing, the
project would assist the Planning, Economics and Statistical Sections. The
Planning Section staff would be upgraded and strengthened to enable it to
help provincial planning efforts and other parts of the national DPI. The
Economic Section would be strengthened to enable it to carry out production
and marketing research and industry evaluation for policy formulation and
planning purposes and the Statistical Section would be expanded by four
clerical positions.
Agricultural Extension Support (US$1.8 million)
58.       The proposed project would strengthen the four Units (Extension
Advisory, Publications, Radio Broadcast and Libraries) constituting the
Information Section of DPI-s Education and Training Branch. Extension
advisory services would assist the provinces and at the same time aim at
creating institutional linkages with agricultural research.  The success of
this approach would to a large measure depend on the active cooperation of
the provincial DPIs. While individual perceptions of the respective roles
of central and provincial agricultural services and of possible forms of
assistance and cooperation obviously differ widely, the general reaction of
provincial governments is favorable.



- 16 -
Land Utilization Services (US$1.4 million)
59.       This component would include assistance for three activities: soil
erosion studies; a land capability survey of alienated land; and a land
evaluation for subsistence and cash cropping. The first would determine
soil losses and run-off in six provinces to help develop a suitable package
of soil conservation measures under various agro-ecological conditions.
The land capability survey for alienated land would cover 200,000 ha of
unused privately or Government-held lands. Its aim would be to evaluate its
development potential as a basis for subsequent programs to develop or
rehabilitate it.  The land evaluation for subsistence and cash cropping
would constitute the last phase of CSIRO-s work in Papua New Guinea, its
end-product being an overall resource inventory and assessment of land
potential.
Agricultural Project Development (US$1.1 million)
60.       Under the proposed project, the Agricultural Development Section
would be strengthened to enable the Section to step up its activities to
a level of 1-2 projects per year. The Department of Lands provides an
important input into agricultural development work through land survey,
lease processing, and inspection. It has been recommended to Government
that a support program by the Department of Lands would be funded under the
1984 NPEP.
Livestock Services (US$0.9 million)
61.       The proposed component would strengthen the animal disease and pest
surveillance program throughout the country; provide funds for essential
facilities and equipment at the central veterinary laboratory; and support
a survey of the mineral status of ruminants. The d'isease and pest
surveillance program would be increased and the Central Veterinary Laboratory
would be strengthened.
Quarantine Services (US$0.7 million)
62.       The proposed project would build up the quarantine inspectorate to
a level where it could cope with the greatly expanded workload deriving
from PNG-s increased contacts with foreign countries.
Plantation Management Training (US$0.4 million)
63.       This component includes upgrading a classroom and dormitory at the
training facility planned for Milne Bay, the purchase of vehicles, furniture
and equipment. The Government agreed during negotiations to expedite funding
requests under the 1984 NPEP for three additional staff positions for the
plantation management training program.



- 17 -
Transit Staff Housing (US$0.1 million)
64.       Three low-cost housing units will be constructed in order to
facilitate the transfer of national officers to project components located
in the capital and thus to assure timely implementation of these components.
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.2 million)
65.       The Planning Section within DPI-s Planning, Economic and Marketing
Branch would be responsible for monitoring project implementation. Following
normal procedures for NPEP projects, these officers would also prepare
quarterly progress reports for review by the National Planning Office and
the Department of Finance. In addition, the proposed project would provide
funds for three evaluation exercises by external consultants at the start,
near midpoint and towards the end of project implementation. An initial
baseline survey would be conducted.
Fellowships (US$1.4 million)
66.       The proposed project would provide for training at various levels
and for durations ranging from short-term courses to one year of formal
education in support of the following project components:
(a) Crop Research: 21 staff for a total of 648 months of training;
(b) Agricultural Education and Training: 16 staff for 192 months;
(c)- Agricultural Extension Support: 8 staff for 46 months;
(d) Agricultural Project Development: 4 staff for 30 months; and
(e) Quarantine Services: 9 staff for 27 months.
Total: 58 staff for 943 months.
67.       This training component would upgrade DPI staff in specific areas
where training is not available locally. It would increase the competence
and efficiency of their respective services and facilitate the eventual
national staffing of positions presently held by expatriate officers.
Consultancies (US$1.2 million)
68.       Under the proposed project, about 69 man-months of expatriate tech-
nical assistance would be provided to DPI for the following:
(a) Policy and Planning (33 man-months) to assist in the develop-
ment of data system and the coordination of national and
provincial planning;



- 18 -
(b)  Agricultural Project Development (32 man-months) to help
identify and prepare agricultural projects;
(c)  In-Service Training (4 man-months) to assist in the
development of training materials for in-service training
courSes and in the delivery of short term courses; and
(d) CSIRO program: US$0.7 million (last phase of long-term program
for which detailed cost estimates are available).
69.       The consultancies have been costed at about US$8,200 per month
which would cover salaries and travel to and from the duty station. At the
time of project appraisal billing rates for experienced consultants averaged
about US$4,300 depending on such factors as nationality, area of
specialization, age.
Implementation Schedule
70.       Most of the civil works, e.g., the insect store, staff houses,
houses, dormitories and laboratories will be undertaken in 1984 and 1985.
Consultants will be engaged starting in 1984 for policy and planning,
agricultural project development and in-service training. About 51 fellow-
ships will be granted in 1984 and 1985 for both short- and long-term courses.
Project Cost
71.       Total project cost is estimated at US$24.3 million over the
four-and-a-half years of project implementation. Of this about US$14.0
million (58%) is the foreign exchange component. Base cost estimates are
expressed in March 1983 prices and include about US$1.1 million in taxes and
duties. Unit prices for housing, subsistence and car rental follow the
relevant Government standards; for staff salaries the DPI salary scales were
used. Consultant service costs are based on recent cost quotations of the
National Planning Office.
72.       Physical contingencies of 10% were applied for all items except
staff salaries and consultancies. Annual price contingencies are 6% for
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986 and 1987 were added for
local and foreign costs alike. They total 21% of base costs plus physical
contingencies.
Financing Plan
73.       The Bank would finance US$14.1 million of the total project costs,
equivalent to the foreign exchange component plus the capitalized front-end
fee (US$0.1 million). The Government would finance US$10.3 million (42%).



- 19 -
Procurement
74.       Because of their overall small size (not likely to exceed
US$200,000 equivalent for any given location and year) and spread over
several provinces, project components and years, civil works amounting to
US$2.6 million are unlikely to attract foreign bidders and, therefore, would
be carried out following local competitive bidding in line with national
bidding procedures which have been found satisfactory. In some isolated
locations where suitable contractors would be unavailable, civil works
estimated to cost less than $100,000 would be carried out under force account
by the Department of Works and Supply. Purchases of vehicles, furniture and
equipment estimated to cost US$1.3 million would be procured by local
competitive bidding procedures. Items estimated to cost less than US$30,000,
up to an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured through prudent
shopping.
75.       Civil works and furniture contracts in excess of US$100,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent, respectively, expected to cover about 55% and 60% res-
pectively of purchases in the two categories, would be subject to Bank review
of bidding documents prior to bidding and of bids prior to award. Consultant
services in the amount of US$0.7 million would be contracted in accordance
with the Bank-s Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursement
76.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made over a 4 1/2-year
period and would cover:
(a) 60% of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for
equipment, vehicles and furniture; and
(c)  100% of total expenditures for expatriates  salaries, con-
sultants services and fellowships, and 60% of total expendi-
tures for staff travel and subsistence, and monitoring
and evaluation.
77.       Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account, for
equipment and furniture purchases under US$30,000 and for other operational
expenses would be made against certified statements of expenditure; all
other disbursements would require full documentation. The statements of
expenses would be reviewed and approved by the Project Coordinator
prior to submission to the Bank, with the supporting documents to remain
with him to be available for subsequent auditing as well as for review by
Bank supervision missions.
Accounting and Auditing
78.       The Departmental Accountants in DPI would have responsibility for
the maintenance of separate accounts for the individual project components in



- 20 -
accordance with sound accounting practices, and would ensure that an annual
auditing of these accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
would take place before June 30 of the following year (i.e., six months after
the close of PNG's fiscal year). Certified copies of the audits and the
auditor's report would be forwarded to the Bank by September 30.
Implementation
79.       The main responsibility for project implementation would be with
the DPI. The relevant DPI Branches would be in charge of the day-to-day
implementation of the individual project components, and in each partici-
pating Branch, one staff would act as Component Manager. DPI has further
appointed one of its officers as Project Coordinator to assure proper link-
ages among the various components and with the Bank.
80.       To assure a prompt beginning, the following positions have been
funded in the 1983 budget and are expected to be filled by October 1, 1983:
four national Quarantine Officers and the following four expatriate staff:
Research Director; Officer-in-charge of Research Training; Land Development
Officer; and Information and Communications Specialist.
Recruitment and Staffing
81.       The identification and appointment of the incremental staff
(national and expatriate officers) will put a heavy administrative burden on
the relevant Government agencies, particularly DPI and the Public Service
Commission. In order to facilitate the search for expatriate staff, PSC has
agreed to enlist the services of specialized recruitment agencies and FAO-s
Agricultural Operations Division. By 1988, a year after project completion,
half of the 24 expatriate staff funded under the project would be replaced
by nationals, and the remaining posts would be localized in the next four
years.
Benefits
82.       The main benefits expected from the project are:  (a) increased or
more cost-efficient production in smallholder cash cropping, subsistence
agriculture and iestate production; (b) avoidance of possible economic losses
from the strengtlhening of the quarantine and animal disease control
services; and (c') increased general administrative efficiency and technical
expertise of DPI staff.
83.       These benefits are difficult to quantify.  However, findings from
other developing countries suggest that specific imnprovements in agricultural
support services can lead to impressive results: the introduction of the T&V
extension system in Turkey and India led to substantial yield increases for
cotton, paddy and wheat, often without a significant increase in other inputs.
Similarly, research on a number of crops in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico



- 21 -
yielded annual internal rates of return between 35 and 96%. Investment in
quarantine and plant disease control should be seen as a prudent insurance
policy.
Justification
84.       In Papua New Guinea the agriculture sector is performing well
below its potential and the deterioration in support services over the last
decade is considered one of the main reasons for poor performance. Support
services have been fragmented and weakened by the decentralization of
important support functions and the continuing departure of experienced
expatriate staff. Unless a determined effort is made to strengthen the
central DPI in several key areas and to enable it to assist the provincial
agricultural staff, the service may eventually cease functioning except in
a narrow administrative and regulatory role.
Environmental Considerations
85.       By improving plant quarantine services and reducing the risk of
major pest and disease attack, the project will have a positive environmental
impact. It would also enhance Government-s ability to design and implement
environmentally sound agricultural development programs and projects.
Risks
86.       If properly implemented and maintained, the proposed project would
be essentially risk-free. Uncertainties are limited to project imple-
mentation itself. The proposed project would require a considerable input
of specialized staff, and a careful timing of budgeting, staff recruitment
and other administrative procedures. The Government is fully alerted to the
difficulties of this task and is taking measures to mitigate them.
87.       Several project components require cooperation between the central
and provincial agricultural services. This applies particularly to the
research/extension linkage which even in the best circumstances is a complex
and demanding task. The Government and Bank realize the inherent uncertain-
ties. It is therefore proposed that the extension advisory component and
its links with agricultural research be given continuous attention during
supervision and a prominent place in the monitoring and evaluation process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
88.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Independent State of Papua
New Guinea and the Bank and the Report provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
90.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
E. Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 12, 1983



- 23-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L'
TOTAL            461.7                                  MOST RECENT             tiDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        4.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  190.0        390.0     786. 0                  890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIALEST)       51.0        146.0     299.0                  701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR ITHOUSANDS)  1932.0        2394.0    3007.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.7           9.8      17.9                    32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         4.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           9.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RUACHED                   2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         4.2          5.2       6.4                  255.4                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    508.4         546.6     625.3                 1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.5         42.0      42.0                    39.9                    39.7
15-64 ERS.                          56.6         55.0      54.8                   56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          3.0       3.3                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)                                 ' v
TOTAL                               1.8          2.1       2:3/c-                 2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              15.3         15.1       8.3                    3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0         41.5       6.8                   35.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.2         18.1      15.1                     9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.9       2.6                     2.0                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OP HARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       3.0ld                 36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0        100.0     105.0                  115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF                 -
&EQUlREMUIIS)                    79.3        83.6       86.7/e                106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           41.9         46.4      47.07h                 54.4                     66.0
OF YHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.7         19.9      19.97h                 13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2         19.3      13.6                     6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.6          46.4      50.6                    59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0        133.0     104.5                    63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      20.0/f                 32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.07?                 51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      19.07I                 20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         14.0      18.0/f                  37.7                    59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..          5.0       5.0/f                  24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          14390.0/    11509.6   14040.O/e                8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2450.0    2347.1    1585 .57                 4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             170.O       150.5/8   214.9/.               1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                                ..         52.1j    96.7Te                 651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     272.7/e               2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                   27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AV'ERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.1           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                     .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              80.0           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



-24 -
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MI-DDLE INC0ME           MIDDLE INCOKE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDZCATION
ADJUSTO EEROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMRY:      TOTAL                 32.0         52.0      64.0                   96.2                     104.3
VALE                  59.0        64.0       73.0                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                 7.0        39.0       55.0                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          8.0      12.0                   37.6                      41.3
MAL                    2.0        11.0       17.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                 0.5         4.0        8.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. IZ OF SECONDARY)  16.0          19.4      22.3/h                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0         29.7      30.5                   35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                          18.0         23.0      22.97h                 25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        29.4         32.1      32.0/f                  73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          7.3       6.4/h                  9.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PPULATION                             .           ..      54.4                  116.5                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                  37.6                     107.7
YEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                  .       6.5                    53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA            .         ..                          2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1058.4       1244.9    1492.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.4         41.3      40.6                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      82.1                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.3          5.8       7.7                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PFRCENT)
TOTAL                                54.8         52.0      49.6                    38.5                     33.6
MALE'                                61.2         58.5      56.4                    50.5                     50.4
FEtALE                               47.7         44.9      42.2                    26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                     1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .            ..
RIGdEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    .             ..
L0WEST 20 PERCEhT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    .        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     400.0                   194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     275.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  178.2                   518.0
RUIAL                                ..           ..         ..                  164.9                   371.1
ESTIMSATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBUN                                ..           ..      10.0                   24.4
RURAL                                 .           ..      75.0                   41.1
Not available
Sot applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagem, for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 ref-r to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
IC  lIdiganous population growth rate 1i  2.87; /d 1974; /e 1977; /f 1975; 7  1964; /b 1976.
May, 1982



-25-
-ANNEXI
Ve0aaAl bthoo:th~ tsaamdes(e   oscscnoloJoWdi  the sasaa                                                -4rtts   o   -oiitisl. I iteIth-     sto  sta  rhet sy coy too its intc-                    3     o
ftlo.tCofol bto boocrlt   orooo f        plsc th.I f. doo-d ti-    e.sd     -hrateto Crtt  difjet ddfesnos bt..tcootrto
th   ofoso   tops  c   (1g-0enootr    co  of she srI! foo   .o.tr  ood  (21 )               otr   troop  tith  -tosofshither c-ero. Lo-e  thco rte.  ototry _roop
ti  hs  91ootcocs y  focot  or    fit   lbe1      01 Ioposecs"troo   shots  itddls  tscot  torch   frcsoff104d!,1-1f,.es   Ia -ohs                  - tcr be ofcttht
ctItt   ifor---,to          sol ho.sosrooset  is      .,tlb4O  ..ec.a  of eec todio-srtocsI ..too ..  ht  once'K.   ore ..o..   ocefol. is coprotrt                      .o
AML* (titoo-t  aq.m.                                                                                    Poolstt  t  foetirel tad - total. orbto. a-t  r-tl- Ppoto.lt   (toal
Ttota  - Ttotle1   fo   otolo_       too   lood  .... .. d tLsa               19er; 79O dat.-           ott.cd tal)lIJL dioo          .y.thei   rsrolosL       aot  ofho-pl-Itlb IsO.
L-torcl      sit   of  ario o l cre  oast rs.o-aly  os P -tastrly                            clleitlei. "PrAlio  to  prlo-st  -tettr:I              stli       hoep it.. cod  .a-
for osp.psoce   ohtcd kltohee  Iotsoo   tILe  1elton; 19(9 dots.                                     hitoitllttoto    Icoo. teioocas atltct-cm                             rLr sratfsd
oaito  byl sao  oso        hottrio  oa Vsld lea  Aras(1905-it btaai). L960.                             set sadlci ...rsrs tot P,oool   s.fdb  opyttc    lth
1970. 00. 1900  dar.T                                                                                    adilo   ..l sstso...r. noa..soof.co)oro    fe    0otlo    ooe
Ott Ilicoot, ptto- ...I       to-   ~ so esd bidto-.tait an    orh c  aloe                              aed  -otL heeplola., lo-s  or  araI. £  opfeea d Iteloa  ar    rtoc
"trirtt) to killoroco  of ro-       qovlarpartptr 19019,co  lOOt                                        oar.a.        iptotolte     hoopot-t. aeisoltatsoi  oodeo  tota.
9t.1 -hospirole  disided by the  Ioa    f hots.
POPLAI"9Tt 6   ITl  tAlTC
Tstoi ?.P.lasloo, hid-hoer (toted)-A f July l 196   1979,. cd 19600                                tOOtl
dart.                                                                                              Aottctt tie. sf  Ircod  oooaooh-oshold) -ttl  orha, ora  rood-
tlrito   IotLIto    fr Ion   oftoal  -tol  of -rba  no toot.  VpopLoston;                               A hoa.e.o ldIoott               ...otatoo     ot todiloloo1  sf    bts1019ho-lt
aao    ootrl1960. 1970, -od 1990 dr.ith. itt...ftld foL                                                            ttottlyoyts
toaw    oalto   t oecoao  o    ol byrtoli_ -ad  _eriiY.tre                                        d-etlltra    otpo    -rly       ollirre 000 bOa o-pcrattosros    0
iPjo1tl.o. Pooscrso  for sortelIto  toesooPtl dtio three Ie.-Ia  assi.-                            uonis    at.-
1. ,_L,                                                                                                                      .ZRlotitfo  topeot-s    or biltht ioete..it  ilth   -toosy'. ro  r.Ott.  ooe L.-Moses. to ..leotIlo it     pooro  of ooolloof-  otl  orto hod coral 
ss,nOfaI=        litt. eop-ersoy a-hulao  orI 77.5 ytt.Th. pOro-                             Coottlrl  oclr  wIh s-lsottoty  10llirt qoalttoe  spcrot
coesfor faroltey raeas    oo   irolhesaeco ~hId.Clo   0.  tOtal  orb. oat   -1t dooll1 oeseoiglo
hoP oo,ts  L0 .ht ...  ....... on  ofohs   tr ro irtOtf  -oo lory                             ThOCAtTOSt
set forrillty trondo for ptojso_lo   rotose.                                                     lotdtooio              t P.oro
jjAldtatyoooootlo   - Io  ortioosy  pralslon   here  ts to tr hoit coo                 Piolsa    orhoo1 - roho.1  scIr od fesole  G- oe  roo.              . ott froolo
the bilthi r-c  to oqoo  In rho dootIb toe,00  also  rho I9 arotst-                                   troleo   o   l  agos   h    rorylrle   eoeaIeo   epo  r
totoonaso. int        sothdol   fter fbetlLOytt            Islio.t.rtr    ooo-t    ooslr;                                          slyIoos  ohid.o   gsd 6-Il
the tolaaettl Xa of ooi  t    otroo o  ras,                   .hn .ah   -rosthystha   dordttdff.-rtr  IItooh   of orbsat Idotl    for
L-tatd  tonrh  ito.eI of rho yt Ietsd ohr.ttesr   of the  popoaton010     .ssPopl   r  Is:':bn'  oretotrh    t Ita  soin  ago
toropa   000. aod CMo tao  of deoloo   of ferl"ity  tars n  ra 'pis.                        fondr Ic            --oo,  acad f-tlo   Conyote  oc abor; ostoodory
Io t s  ...oat r.  olri....     oohe       Th. yoooh tefc  aotIsory  porl.inp isdoe %-orc.L. Itchltl  or h -ohrtsoo5                                                thlh   f-r pooiAs
ottotIl  its roood.                                                                               osoly of 12 to 10 ysctt ofo.;...eooer  ..oet  oto tststly
Posooloslos OoOahf~~~                                                           aooodad.
Pet o- to  hcdytor  oTolrlnPet aq-t  kllonoo   (100 hertat) o..Jf                         -oatoaloot           -oo  f        Irst f ooco..darr)  V- prtl-lto toos
total  -to; 1910. 19070 an  1979 dats.                                                             totns  e..ba            . tocrtlal. ootr   rtcsoob ytcoidopnd'-
Pe s . is  crtootl  orI           tcoo   s  eoo  o  attottl.tod                                  on .yo         ... drers.rto   todo    cr ro
tiaplotos   lt hytoootIpeoor) -Chidldre  (0-1k ysat), sorktof-afe  ill-                      Prsto  co  too      -ay        Is d-0100  07 osbtts of Lretolso. to ht
Lsrloo; ...10, 1070. crM90   ar.Odl litrt-oo    Itor   (ottorot) - Llssro-aaolts  labla  to  -td and ol
Pptto  rrh    rt(tor7-011 - 000-5  otoonh torn  of oots1 aid-                                  a .lb..rtott  of  -orI tOolt popolotlon alt4  15 yano  5   Oer
750tpoolotlo fo  1900-60, 1960-010  ott 1970-to.
Pootolo  tosl  et  (orrol   ot  -t dool gltoho.  roo          f orheo ppo-             COnsIPO0O It
isrios  for1950-0. 190-70,sod   070-h                                                  P- -sros  tosfe  soco  rorolo                       ...o.. gaaaa   oats  -oprioe eoto
(cods flrsb tote  (coo rhood     000a1 lIre  hlrhe Pet tbooard of .ld-,to                                00  sttlgi lee   sht  icdFt.il    o                    oOssitlna. -Iteca d
P.P.,&srro; 19000  1907, erd 100  daro.                                                               tLttey  nlloh     e
Crot heath bets (Ott tho....no  - -.-Ia dsatIte Per rto....od  Of Ald-Ytoo                            Ladlo Oo-tOet  flr thoono    ooot                  All rypts of tlhctfot radio
ppoio;19000  1970.  o   90dt.                   -ircrest t sotolOclIcpo  th adIof ypoato;cldo-o
trss ttl4 oslo  bR-e-oac   -oht of dooStbtrto   onco- wIll hotit-osts Lcootsr-                                         t  loo  loe      4 to. Yeat  oht-rgerrt    ftos
hot ooss  tetooth   pettod If eh:toroe                   lt...rset eos-spsolfio  Lst-                 Itcsat   icr   aofrtoo  ycat  sa y rot. I -o-oatbi etr
ollty   ate; oooly 0000pee   aorageaoodlo9  10 100. 1970. aod 0080.                          -a sottoe  abolith.d   ohln
fsiyOaeo-cctrc    rol7O.sotN                              Ooo   onro   otrteT  lolssfo   oooopylto)-T   eorseftbodars
ofA---oholdoos    ot  aoyoao   atoo    aiy-                    aottpott                       ortlpoi   o  thoo- hIf  Tol TVo;  0                         fid c llotor.d ... rttreI
ononoef oiltlhoatog  ec  (1 - l4ycte  ot  05    itI-oooiL.trst                            Se -ssococt Ct Ioolat       .. ffthochd   fo_oly)-bosrt  otito
tp.obloaiotL de-o-d policoily to r-rodih- ero    tc   I   srrlss
PM AMh 901170                                                                                             n  h Oe datlly   if It ory-ct  at Iosot foot -lint o    kI.
tss   ffodOootoootCpt  (16-110)                    Odee of P-tcpt  arsol                      iooa O-Io  OotrohcP-o  I-iorr  oct Ysa-e st-d oI  oh  oero
poatooito  o  oil  ood oooodiirs.   todocron  erloOe   -stcd feet sd                  rIcIets sold dorrrg stit ysor, toolooiog aoaooio.e  to. dristotise
toro -fsola) ofthi.  are edibl  cod rortLt  ot t            fe.. cfto  eod
to   ea  ooodd).    ohrt  ptodoetlt of coon ooot                  Is.. oso  00              1009  PIOft
-"to-I  -otre9   prodra p.I.   oinite  1911r.100   o  1000 doTo-                                   Tot-1 bo   oc  (thoos..oos) - ttostll    ol.Ipcso, trolodIng
aesty  oqfrolot  f rs  foo  ecyilt  ooc lailo  I  oaooro9cr  sfia                   ooerto   porlaPIo o  alltote I IfoioonLS.    rDIoo  ooootO...r
cr too.  A-alble.  iop   aomytodaerrpoooto   oots Isos                                              50   oPotable; 19609, 1970 ond 1080 doht..
eoote   n                                                                                     FOce-osob  t   opOsorld    te1to.sce  r.1. _ ~I-sco) - Fse1l  lcito   boot a, pttre-rre  of total labor tot-.
qooslttc ced  o fod   ooossis,  od  osee  0  Alctloots.    sqote-AerlrLSot  ictt) - tLbs  fort  On. tof lg    -orary   hro   snd
eooca woe acotntd  ho fA  itaetd00 yOyellOglcalontofto  Iooisn                          raio    srrtaco   oa   Iaboo foro-, 1960. 1070 cod 1050 data.
cot  et  t bfthoto   of poolrlo. cdalo'o   10 po fao  to   at    tedtcrolYg-al    o                                                     -a     p ..oroo I ftoa isr feros;
hocoobold tonal; 1961-65. 1970 toO  1070 asra.                                       1910.Pi,.  fl'iIi.  197  sod lOfO-d data. 
nO, eopply of food pol t 0.  ,cr s-yclo of food is Ieflod asaioo.  so-                               _tfrtoty totse ar  c-opotd c  totl1, oa-t..od f-slt labot f.roc-
s     Ioose    f 60 ITa   of roodl Poost  ro  onPo.   2   t    o   nta   e                     1960;.1970. cod 1990i dora         ..se  ... hO-d onI 0l,     tslcI.o rota.
otoaelss   hen tIeIf 7) &ase of tota  ptoost  ot,   d 23 grea of                            foe  -ai-crc   sto  froa  -alocls- rt
cotmt prstt  to  n   rotsf  for rh  _old   proroso...d by 096 Is the Otoid                  fonsolotrpdtlro   t~lo  -Ktot.o of pooltonote   15 sod 65 tad    s
t9-lt Toot So-oy; 1961-65, 1070 snd 1907 dots,                                                        torofrilabor fotI5
Pettroto  totlr  rpyy tot  otn  od p1,sO  -Ptotclo  aopply of fond de-
rOpd  ro   sIns  odpoee   0  oso  rt -ar  1961-Oh. 1070 cod 1977 dote               ifiItOOf            I)2yI
ate  5roop 1-4  yooos, roobhillrno  lo  hi.O  ae trooP.  otas            votsgln-                    Spro, Iohost 1   oot.poar2   ero.ttpost4   ers
foioo data tatlr      from  h1t  ttca  1960. 19>0  and 1080 dac.                                     a  heeshdt
515L7                                                                                                P079Th 59Cr? CORipS
efa.p05i.od II!; 61ro-.; 11,179ad19 W.asaI i.                                              SkooetotyOlo.ioii   otlcOcIolol cthIah                                         ris
ba Wf stl   iotl-  tco   o I   of oI. st   teseosobIs sooses to, PI..f.... fotecitls,J
pens lc fthe I  t-aPotos  00001cr loos.   Is       tsat apoblit                             psl P-     cooI-0   of the Iosntto.   lbtre  It-c  Lie dttisd from  she tota
=onbo.S5055-scoe
Motteloot    too' Iterots o  poolct                        bi            ....toal .o.. o   rur. 
seCh.    fPoi   ttl    tat   tdttl    etditveosaicoos
potatoecofchirreftrsepesttt h.  tleadsoc   o    oid
lb. oaibcotioo  oattiarettli. sort.  t s-tooatr rrretcoa. of coma coorst
oa  tot-asc   h  sle-don r-tcO-        t  h L   se oty  pIt-.ttsa   nteoi
tar rontallet tOOe. ~ ~     ~      ~      b, -lj                                                                                           K1  96



- 26 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PCRODUCT IN 1981 /b                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1960-        1970-        1975-
US$                     1969         1974         1980
Million        %         ------(Constant prices) -
GNP at Market Prices       2,486.7      100.0         6.5/c        5.2/c        1.0/c
Gross Domestic
Investment                 707.3       28.4        19.2          8.1          6.8
Gross National Saving        446.9       18.0
Current Account Balance    542.9        -21.8
Exports of Goods, NFS        875.0       35.2         9.9         25.3         -0.3
Imports of Goods, NFS    1,237.0         49.7        16.5         -2.9          3.6
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /d           Employment          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million   __          '000       _        US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture            659.4        32.1      996    87.6         774         39.9
Industry               699.0        34.1       27      2.4    25,141       1,295.3
Services               696.3       33.9       114    10.0       6,642        342.2
Total/Average       2,054.7        100.0    1,137   100.0       1,941        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    % of GDP
1981                1981           1976-1978
Current Domestic Receipts                 374.0                18.2            19.7
Current Expenditures                      589.1                28.7            32.2
Current Deficit                           195.1                 9.5            12.4
Capital Expenditures                       55.9                 2.7             4.5
External Assistance (net)                 184.0                 9.0            13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar year
basis.'
/b  National accounts and balance of payments figures differ, since the first is
on a flow and the second on a payments basis.
/c  Growth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
/d  At factor cost.  These figures are for 1981.
7e  Preliminary.
not applicable
November 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
March    March
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1978      1979      1980      1981       1981      1982
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                           449.0    571.7    553.1    554.7         545.7    553.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net                13.5      35.0      15.0      42.3       55.8      70.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net              193.8    227.5    301.9    342.6         308.0    350.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                31.4      35.3      31.9      33.5
Consumer Price Index (1977 = 100)               105.8    111.9    125.4    138.7         134.3    140.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                            5.8      5.8      12.1      10.6       11.0        4.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 41.8      17.4      32.7      13.5       24.9       13.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1981)
1979    1980    1981 /a                                  US$
(US$ Million)                                         Million    %
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,058.6 1,038.9    875.0  Coffee                            168.2    18.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,028.5 1,288.4  1,237.0  Cocoa                              80.2      9.0
Resource Gap (Deficit = -)    30.1  -249.5   -362.0  Copra & Copra Products                68.3      7.7
Timber & Timber Products        52.1      5.8
Factor Services (net)          -109.8  -175.7    -88.6  Copper Concentrates               226.7    25.4
Transfers (net)                 157.9   162.0    190.3  Gold                              212.1     23.8
Balance on Current Account       78.1  -263.3   -260.3  All Other Commodities              85.2      9.5
Private Capital (net)            15.7    27.9    155.7  Total                             892.7   100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)           37.5    68.9    137.9
Errors and Omissions /b         -21.7    85.7        4.0  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Increase in Reserves            109.6   -80.7       37.3                                          US$
Million
Imports of fuel and related                               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          757.0
materials                       76.4   108.7    183.3  Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed          757.0
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 /c
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            7.0
1977                             1980                     Nonguaranteed Private Debt
US$1.00 = K 0.79                 US$1.00 = K 0.67         Total Outstanding & Disbursed             7.0
K 1.00 = US$1.27                 K 1.00 = US$1.49
1978-1979                        1981                     IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 03/31/83)
US$1.00   K 0.71                 US$1.00 = K 0.67                                           13S$ Million
K 1.00   USS1.41                 K 1.00 = US$1.49                                            IBRD   IDA
1982 Jan-June                          Outstanding & Disbursed            41.0   81.4
US$1 = K 0.72                           Undisbursed                       31.1   32.6
K 1.00 = US$1.39
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  84.1  114.0
/a  Preliminary.
/b  Including capital n.e.f.
/c  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
..  not available
April 1983



- 28 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                   Amounts (US$ millions)
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Numb,er      Year      Borrower      Purpose            Bank    IDA   U1ndisbur,ed
Eight credits and six loans fully disbursed              58.5    62.4         -
1333-PNG    1976        PNG      Agriculture             12.0                 3.08
841-PNG    1978         PNG     Rural Development                20.0        7.30
1856-PNG    1980        PNG      Third Highways          17.0                15.99
1934-PNG    1981        PONG     Primary Education        6.0                 6.00
1087-PNG    1981        PNG      Primary Education                12.0/a    10.94/h
1149-PNG    1981        PNG      Second Agric. Credit             15.0/c      9.36/b
2125-PNG    1982        PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.   6.0                   6.00
1227-PNG    1982        PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.              2.0/d      2.00/b
1279-PNG/e  1983        PNG      Technical Assistance              3.0/f      3.00/b
Total                                       99.5   114.4        63.67
of which has been repaid /g                 14.9      0.4
Total now outstanding /g                    84.6   114.0
Amount sold                 8.1/g
Repaid                      7.67g            0.5
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                   84.1   114.0
Total undisbursed                           31.07   32.60       63.67
/a  Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
commitment).
/b  Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms
of US$ commitment.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
/d  Credit amount  [s SDR 1.7 million (equivalent of US$2.0 million at time of
commitment).
/e  Signed on November 5, 1982, effective April 8, 1983.
/f  Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).
/g  As of February 28, 1983.



- 29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 1333    Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta.  It includes a 4,200 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholders, developed as a
joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes: 5,600 ha of
oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots; long-term credit
facilities for smallholders to be provided through the PNGDB; extension and
visiting inspection services; and technical assistance for project
management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road network.
All civil works have been completed. About 80% of the smallholder
plantings have been undertaken, and 95% of the families are on site. The
recent introduction of the oil palm weevil for pollination has led to a
significant decrease in labor inputs and boosted production.  The project is
expected to be essentially completed by the end of 1983, in line with the
appraisal estimate. Administrative responsibility for the project will pass
from the Department of Finance to the Department of Primary Industry from
April 1, 1983.
Credit No. 841   Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
September 7, 1978; Effective Date: February 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The purpose of the Project is to raise the standard of living of
the population in the Project Area by improving subsistence agriculture,
increasing incomes through the development of cash crops, the construction of
an electricity transmission line, the upgrading or construction of main and
feeder roads, the improvement of formal and nonformal education and the
provision of health facilities.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- .0 -                           Page 3 of 5
Most of the civil works under the project have been completed, and
staff recruitment has made good progress. This should permit an accelerated
implementation of components which so far have been lagging (e.g., coffee
clan blocks).
Loan No. 1856    Third Highway Project; US$17.0 Million Loan
of September 16, 1980; Effective Date:
November 6, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Highlands region up to Togoba. It will, further, help strengthen the
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating, through the
help of consultants, a strategy for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for transport
planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at the
national and provincial levels. The civil works have been successfully
tendered and construction is underway.  Civil works are now about 50%
complete with the work scheduled to be completed in June 1984, a delay of
about 12 months beyond the appraisal estimate. The consultant's work on
rural transport studies has been completed. Consultants to assist the
improvement of road maintenance procedures and practices have been appointed
after protracted delays.  Tribal fighting, social unrest and poor security
continue to cause delays and difficulties in the area.
Loan No. 1934    Primary Education; US$6.0 Million Loan
and               and US$12.0 Million Credit of May 11, 1981;
Credit No. 1087  Eiffective Date:  August 28, 1981;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The project is designed to assist the primary education system
through (a) improviing education management; (b) raising quality through
improved textbooks, materials and teacher training; and (c) increasing
access by assisting the provinces to expand and improve existing schools and
to establish new schools.
Implementation in civil works and recruitment of experts is
progressing satisfactorily. Activities have commenced to strengthen
provincial education planning in preparation for implementation of the
provincial fund. A, project accountant has been recruited after a substantial
delay and disbursements are expected to accelerate.



ANNEX II
-    -                           Page 4 of 5
Credit 1149       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$15.0 Million Credit
of December 7, 1981; Effective Date: May 26, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project will finance over a period of three years a share of
PNGDB's planned agricultural lending and also support the expansion of
related agricultural services. The project has two principal components:
(a) field development of about 8,000 ha of coffee, cocoa, oil palms and
rubber, and establishment of piggery and poultry enterprises through
subloans made by PNGDB; and (b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting
materials supplies, and of other support services to agriculture, such as
crop development teams, consultants and studies.  Disbursement of the
subloans has slowed due to lack of properly trained staff to process,
supervise and administer the subloans. However, present efforts to recruit
additional national staff and consultants should ease this problem.
Loan 2125 and    Enga Provincial Development Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan
Credit 1227       and US$2.0 Million Credit of June 28, 1982; Effective Date:
September 16, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project constitutes the first four-year phase of the
Government s eight-year plan to accelerate social and economic development
in the Enga province. Specifically, the project will: (a) help to
maintain food production and improve nutrition by promoting growth in the
subsistence system through the introduction of improved agricultural tech-
nologies and practices to farmers; (b) support low-cost income-generating
activities, e.g., cash crops and small-scale enterprises; (c) improve
provicial roads, facilities for health care, and government services; (d)
increase the coverage of the formal and vocational education systems; (e)
support community development activities to promote inter-clan cooperation,
thus creating conditions conducive to development; and (f) strengthen the
provincial government, local and social services and the availability of
trained manpower through technical assistance, training and local
participation.
The project became effective on September 16, 1982. Most of the
expatriate and counterpart staff planned for recruitment in the first year
are already in place. The civil works program has been delayed due to lack
of funds. The 1983 budget contains adequate funds to cover the 1982 and
1983 works program.
Credit 1279       Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project:
US$3.0 Million Credit of November 5, 1982; Effective Date:
April 8, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project comprises (i) a geological/geophysical reassessment
of past exploration data with the objective of preparing reports designed
to generate interest in PNG's prospects by the oil industry; (ii) strengthen-
ing of the Geological Survey Division of the Department of Minerals and



- 32 -                              ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Energy by the provision of technical assistance, the acquisition of essential
office facilities where all past exploration data will be assembled, and the
training of PNG nationals; (iii) a promotional effort aimed at inducing oil
companies to seek exploration licenses in PNG; (iv) a prefeasibility study
of the development of a small gas-condensate field in PNG and a re-evaluation
of the gas reserves from five earlier discoveries; and (v) other studies, the
scope of which remains to be determined.
The project manager and consultants have been appointed.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time required to prepare project: 1/2 year
(b) Project prepared by: Government of PNG, with assistance from
FAO/CP
(c) First presentation to the Bank Group: December 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1982
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 1983
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
Supervision mission to assist with project startup is scheduled
for September 1983.
Section III: Special Conditions
None.



I
I



2N       =       :                                                                   '     5. 
N   '<   . :f S    r-/                I R I AN    JAYA   (IN DONESIA)                     /
------       -               .              -' '' - -- --   -   - -'  - - --- ,_
_.~~~~~~~~ __,  0V§                                                 I   f '
- - -a-:- - - -             -   - - -t - - - - -              - -                                                 |
~~~~~~~I                .                       3,,r=+,,   
,        rtCX-,~~~~1     I 
i ~~ ~  ,   X'                                 W                 I    I 
- -' - -   -  - -- -- -_                                ___-_-_- - - -
I  0      s            1                                 2        1-------------------------~~~~~~~I 
3          7                                                                        >
-I 'j   - - - -                       ------
___________                                             -I          / 1                                    - I _>
>~~~~~~'                       ,/nzaOi                 ° \-<',  I  C                   I   Zf
i4,~~~~~~ h' R'~                                         /        -                                   n   =Di
,            1-                              '~~                                    ~     ~~~~~ ,   H 9
-                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
2
3                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o  / ~~~~~~~~~~~                /~ ~~r



