Report No. PID11441
Project Name             Republic of C¶te d'Ivoire-Economic Recovery...
Credit (Rural Poverty Relief)
Region                   Africa
Sector                   Economic Management
Project ID               CIPE71375
Borrower                 Government of C¶te d'Ivoire
Implementing
Agency                   Ministry of Economy and Finance
Abidjan, C¶te d'Ivoire
Contact Person:. Mr. Kouassy Oussou (Directeur
General de l'Economie)
Tel:     (225) 20 20 08 42 / 08 43
Fax:     (225) 20 20 08 56
Date PID Prepared        June 10, 2002
Appraisal                March 12, 2002
Projected Board Date     June 11, 2002
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Once hailed as one of Africa's few stable and successful countries,
C¶te d'Ivoire witnessed unprecedented instability during 1999 and 2000.    In
December 1999, a military coup ousted President Konan Bedie and was followed
by a "national salvation government" led by the military junta of General
Guei until its own ouster in October 2000. Although the December 1999 coup
was bloodless and greeted with relief by the population and political
parties, the transition period up to the Presidential election of October
2000, from which some opposition candidates were excluded, was marked by
increasing violence and human rights abuses. Political tensions have since
eased. Peaceful municipal elections were held in March 2001 and the long
awaited "national reconciliation forum" was launched in October 2001 to mend
the country's social fabric and consolidate social peace. This was followed
by a meeting in January 2002 of the four major party leaders who agreed to
continue the reconciliation process and adopted a 14-point resolution for
that purpose, along with an implementation plan.
The Ivorian authorities are aware that return of political stability
and economic growth will depend on continued democratic reforms and the
implementation of sound economic policies, as well as the resumption of
external aid. After the municipal elections and the launching of official
investigations into the human rights violations which occurred at the end of
2000, the European Parliament agreed in June 2001 that the conditions were
met for a gradual resumption of its dialogue with the new government. The
European Union (EU) has decided to fully resume its aid program. In August
2001, the IMF approved a six-month Staff Monitored Program (SMP) for the C¶te
d'Ivoire. Successful implementation of the SMP paved the way for the
preparation of a program to be supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF), which was approved by the IMF's Board in March 2002.



The government has launched the preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy
Program using a process which allows for the participation of all segments of
the Ivorian society. An Interim PRSP (I-PRSP) was completed in February
2002, and the full PRSP is scheduled to be completed in a year.
2.      Project Objectives
The proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) would be the main
instrument of IDA's support to help Cote d'Ivoire recover from the turmoil
that followed the military coup of 1999. As part of this effort, the Ivorian
authorities have prepared an Economic Recovery Program (ERP), with the
objective of recovering the lost ground and creating the basis for future
progress on poverty reduction. The recovery program, which will be
implemented during 2002-03, would permit C¶te d'Ivoire to return to strong
and sustained high growth by focusing on: (i) creating the conditions for
renewed broad-based growth driven by the rural economy and a private sector
that is more confident about the future; (ii) improving public sector
delivery with participation of local communities; and (iii) improving
efficiency and accountability in public resource management. It also aims to
alleviate poverty amongst the poorest segments who are the rural workers and
sharecroppers in export agriculture and the near subsistence food crop
farmers and who constitute the labor force needed for growth.
The proposed ERC is designed to support these goals by making available
quick-disbursing financing to help preserve a stable financial environment
during the implementation of the ERP, and also enable the government to
allocate higher levels of resources to the priority sectors of primary
education and health, working through mechanisms that build local capacity to
take responsibility for and manage these critical services.
3.      Project Description
The ERC will be disbursed in three tranches. Its proceeds will help
the government: (i) meet the costs of the economic recovery program within a
stable macroeconomic environment; and (ii) increase resource allocation to
the priority poverty-sensitive sectors of primary education and primary
health (including the fight against HIV/AIDS).
4.      Project Financing
The amount of the ERC is US$200 million equivalent. Disbursement of
the three tranches would be released subject to both general and any specific
conditions being met. The first tranche of US$100 million equivalent would
be disbursed upon credit effectiveness.
The second and third tranches of US$50 million equivalent each, could
be disbursed over the following twelve months, provided that: (i) there is
satisfactory progress on the implementation of the program outlined in the
Letter of Development Policy; (ii) the macroeconomic framework remains sound
(as indicated by keeping the PRGF-supported program on track); and (iii)
specific conditions are fulfilled.
5.      Implementation
The overall reform program that this Credit supports will be
implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. An Inter-Ministerial
Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister/Minister of Economy and Finance and
including the representatives of the priority sectors, will oversee and guide
the implementation of the program. The program's day-to-day supervision will
be the responsibility of a Technical Unit established within the Prime
Minister's Office/Ministry of Economy and Finance. The implementation of
-2 -



individual components will be the responsibility of the relevant line
ministries (Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health, Public Works) and
other agencies.
6.      Sustainability
The Technical Unit will be responsible for preparing regular progress
reports for the Inter-Ministerial Committee and IDA. IDA's support to
implementation will be provided through the Country Office, which will be
strengthened in early FY03 with the recruitment of a local economist and the
posting of an internally recruited senior macroeconomist. This support will
be closely coordinated with the IMF and other donors providing support to the
government's I-PRSP. The General Financial Inspection Directorate of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance will carry out the audits of the 2002 and
2003 public expenditure programs of the Ministries of Agriculture, Health,
Education and Public Works. The National Accounts Chamber (Chambre des
Comptes) of the Supreme Court (to be replaced by an independent Cour des
Comptes), will be responsible for the a posteriori control of the
implementation of the budget and the audit of all the organizations that
receives funds from the State. IDA reserves the right to seek an audit of
the Credit deposit account.
The government's ownership of the Economic Recovery Program and its
commitment to the Economic Recovery Credit are high and considered adequate
to ensure the successful implementation of the reform program.
7.      Poverty Category
The ERC would specifically address poverty reduction by targeting
structural reforms and public expenditures in key sectors, and by actually
channeling public funds to activities directly benefiting the poor,
particularly in rural areas. Successful implementation should increase
incomes and employment opportunities in the rural economy, expand access to
and improve the quality of primary education and health services, while
strengthening local communities participation in the delivery of such
services and improve budget formulation, execution, monitoring and reporting,
while strengthening accountability. By focusing on reforms to create the
conditions for renewed broad-based growth in the agriculture and private
sectors, expand access to and improving the delivery of basic public
services, and improve the public expenditure management program, the Credit
would have a direct impact on poverty reduction.
8.      Environmental Aspects
The ERC is a structural adjustment operation and the requirements of
Operational Directive (OD) 8.60 apply. It is estimated that none of its
components would have a significant negative environment impact. The
government is already implementing satisfactory road maintenance mitigation
measures (under the IDA-financed Transport Sector Program). The
liberalization of the cocoa/coffee and cotton sectors, and improved farmers
access to services and technologies, will improve the financial profitability
of growing these crops and may therefore involve potential environmental
risks. However, the government has already adopted reforms that would
discourage agricultural/cocoa encroachment in natural forests and a
comprehensive set of appropriate technologies - micro-spraying, integrated
pest management (IPM), soil conservation measures -- are already promoted,
and would be strengthened, through the IDA-financed National Agricultural
Services Program. The overall PRSP impact assessment system will include a
specific comprehensive environment impact assessment component. The latter
will be developed within the context of the PRSP preparation and will be
-3 -



fully operational before the end of 2002. This is a Category C project and
will require no additional environmental analysis.
9.      Program Objective Categories
IDA continues to work closely with all of C¶te d'Ivoire's development
partners to support the country's programs. The medium-term PRSP will
provide the overall framework for donor support, including IDA's and IMF's.
The ERC operation is designed specifically to complement efforts supported by
the IMF under the PRGF and by other donors. The PRGF will focus on a
stabilization program, as well as on key structural measures identified in
the I-PRSP which directly affect the macroeconomic program, in particular in
the energy and the financial sectors. The reforms supported by the ERC would
be coordinated with those supported by other donors to ensure coherence,
avoid gaps and/or duplication. In the area of poverty reduction measures,
the EU is expected to be a close partner.
10.     Contact Points
Emmanuel Akpa
Task Manager
(202) 473-4367
The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 9, 2002
- 4 -



