                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28818

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-36560)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                            COTE D'IVOIRE

                                                 FOR A

                                   ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT




                                              May 20, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 4
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective February 2004)

                            Currency Unit = CFAF
                            CFAF 717.52 = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 1.00 = CFAF 539,4

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1 - December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARCC        Autorité de Régulation du Secteur Café/Cacao
BCC         Bourse du Café et du Cacao
CAA        Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CIDT       Compagnie Ivoirienne de Développement des Textiles
CIF        Cost Insurance Freight
COGES      Community Management Committees
ERC        Economic Recovery Credit
ERP        Economic Recovery Project
FDPC       Fonds de Développement des Activités des Producteurs de Café
FDPCC      Fonds de Développement des Activités des Producteurs de Café et de Cacao
GDI        Gross Domestic Income
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
I-CAS      Interim Country Assistance Strategy
IDA        International Development Agency
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PRGF       Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ROC        Review of Operational Committee
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SIGFIP     Financial Management System




                          Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Director     Mamadou Dia
                          Sector Manager      Robert Blake
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Zeljko Bogetic

                                       COTE D'IVOIRE
                              Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                   27

Project ID: P071375                                                  Project Name: Economic Recovery Credit
Team Leader: Zeljko Bogetic                                          TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 20, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Economic Recovery Credit                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-36560
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (30%); Central government
                            administration (30%); Crops (20%); Health (10%); General
                            education sector (10%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); Education for all (S); Health system performance
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/15/2001                                     Effective: 06/30/2002                06/20/2002
     Appraisal: 03/07/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/11/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire/Ministry of Economy and Finance
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Robert Blake                                   Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Zeljko Bogetic                                 Emmanuel Akpa
ICR Primary Author:             Zeljko Bogetic


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Background note: The ERC was approved in June 2002 shortly after the IMF-supported PRGF
when it seemed that the country was on its way toward recovery and stability following three
years of political upheavals. The first of the three tranches was disbursed on effectiveness.
Unfortunately, barely three months into the program implementation, on June 19, 2003, a civil
war unexpectedly broke out, effectively partitioning the country into the government-controlled
south and rebel-held areas of the north, putting on hold most of the reform agenda underpinning
the ERC until the project closure in December 2003. Therefore, project implementation in terms
of ICR assessment was unsatisfactory (U), essentially because of the conflict and related security
and political constraints.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the Economic Recovery Project (ERC) were the following:

(i)     create the conditions for renewed broad-based growth, driven by the rural economy and a private
        sector that is more confident about the future;
(ii)    improve public sector delivery, with participation of local communities; and
(iii)   improve efficiency and accountability in public resource management.

The ERC was a quick-disbursing credit of SDR 160.2 million (US$200 million equivalent at the
exchange rate on Board approval) in three tranches, designed to support the nascent economic
recovery in concert with an IMF-supported PRGF, but project implementation was soon interrupted
by an unexpected civil war. The project was approved on June 11, 2002. The ERC was to provide
assistance to Côte d'Ivoire in the aftermath of the turmoil that followed the military coup in December
1999. The following three years were characterized by political instability, sharp decline in per capita
income, and rising poverty, but in 2002 there was sufficient stability and hope for durable recovery that an
adjustment credit was deemed important to assist the economic recovery. A three-year IMF program was
put in place just three months before the ERC approval. After three years of declining per capita income,
during the first eight months of 2002 the Ivorian economy grew at the rate of close to 3 percent. These
signs of recovery, however, were shattered by an unexpected civil war that broke out on September 19,
2002, which halted the implementation of most project objectives and resulted in sharp deterioration of
economic and social conditions.

The ERC was the main instrument of IDA support of the government's Economic Recovery Program
in 2002. More specifically, the Credit aimed to: (i) provide quick disbursing financial assistance to help
stabilize the public finances; (ii) support priority reforms to promote rural productivity and
competitiveness, improve service delivery; and (iii) strengthen public resource management and
accountability.

The Credit marked the full resumption of Côte d'Ivoire's adjustment program. During the late 1980s
and early 1990s, the country's economy suffered from an overall economic decline, weak public finances,
and increasing poverty. Economic growth resumed in 1994 through 1997, triggered by the devaluation of
the CFA franc and some structural reforms. But growth faltered during 1998-2001 largely because of
growing political instability, deterioration in terms of trade, deep cuts in the public investment program,
and weakening private confidence. However, an IMF Staff Monitored Program launched in August 2001
helped the government rebuild track record of performance and was, therefore, followed by a Poverty



                                                     - 2 -

Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) in March 2002. The PRGF complemented the ERC by supporting: (i)
structural reforms in the cocoa, electricity and financial sectors; (ii) increased spending in health and
education; and (iii) measures to strengthen public and corporate governance.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives remained unchanged and the project design was not modified.

3.3 Original Components:

The program supported by ERC included the following measures: (i) create the conditions for renewed
broad-based growth; (ii) expand access and improve delivery of basic public services, such as education
and health; and (iii) improve public expenditure management. These components are briefly discussed
below:

Renewed Broad-based Growth. Under the ERC, the government's Economic Recovery Program for
2003-3 was to pursue renewed broad-based growth through reforms in two areas: (i) promoting
agricultural growth; and (ii) fostering private sector development.

In the agriculture sector, the authorities planned to promote competition at all levels of the cocoa/coffee
chain of production and export; they also aimed to foster a more competitive cotton sector, which is
dominant in the poor regions of the north. To these ends, in the cocoa/coffee sector, the government
intended to ensure that: (i) the new regulatory framework, to be introduced before the 2002-03 sale/export
campaign, would avoid the concentration of market power; (ii) the new regulatory institutions would be
representative, efficient and accountable, through open and fair elections of farmer representatives, clear
policies and procedures, annual programs and budgets, and satisfactory management systems; (iii) a new
export mechanism, under which quotas or other quantitative financial restrictions were to be eliminated,
would be in place before the start of the 2002-03 sale/export campaign; and (iv) a reduction in cocoa/coffee
taxes and levies (limiting them to 30% of the CIF price in 2002). The government had also renewed its
commitment to liberalize the cotton sector.

In private sector development, the government planned to adopt a Letter of Privatization Policy in which it
would set out its vision, institutional framework, and specific policy intentions regarding the portfolio of
enterprises to be privatized. The government was also to finalize the restructuring plan for the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) by the end of June 2002 and reduce its ownership to 20% or less by
end-2003. To re-establish confidence with the private sector, the government planned to reexamine the
enterprise inspection visits and revise the Fiscal Procedures Manual with the view to create a less intrusive
fiscal environment for private enterprises.

Improved Public Sector Delivery. under the ERC, the authorities also aimed to improve delivery of basic
public services, with particular emphasis on education and health.

In education, the government intended to: (i) maintain the education's budget share to at least 3.8% of
GDP into the medium term; (ii) undertake a Public Expenditure Review of the sector; (iii) decrease the cost
of textbooks by opening up to competition important activities such as editing and book supplies; (iv) lower
the cost of education to poor families by providing textbooks free of charge; (v) transfer budget allocations
to schools' committees (COGES), with 3,000 primary schools targeted in 2002 and secondary schools to
follow in 2003; (vi) expand the school meals program by at least 4% per annum; and (vii) include
reproductive health in the curriculum and fund volunteer HIV/AIDS committees in all schools.



                                                      - 3 -

In health, the authorities planned to: (i) prepare a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the sector;
(ii) implement a Public Expenditure Review for the sector; (iii) improve the effectiveness of human
resources for health, through a decentralization of recruitment and management, improved career
development, and technical training; (iv) align the Ministry of Public Health's organization, resources and
management with the government's decentralization policy; (v) strengthen the health management
information system; (vi) study ways to progressively increase autonomy of the drug procurement agency;
and (vii) raise the proportion of generic drugs from 42% to 75% by 2003.

To intensify the fight against HIV/AIDS, the authorities aimed, under the ERC and in preparation of an
IDA Credit for HIV/AIDS Prevention, to undertake the following measures: (i) expand multimedia
information and public information campaigns; (ii) set up and monitor on a pilot (voluntary) basis
counseling and testing schemes in secondary municipal areas; (iii) test methodology for meeting the needs
of HIV/AIDS orphans through community support systems; (iv) test and initiate on a pilot basis HIV/AIDS
training for sector ministries' personnel; and (v) test funding mechanisms for local community-based
initiatives for fighting HIV/AIDS.

Improved Public Expenditure Management: Under the ERC, reforms were envisaged in budget
formulation, budget execution and procurement, and internal controls and audits.

In budget formulation, the main goal was the development of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF). A new unit (Cellule de Revue des Dépenses Publiques) being created by the government with the
support of the European Union was hoped to build the local capacity in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance for systematic public expenditure analysis and monitoring; it was envisaged to carry out a public
expenditure review in 2002. In budget execution, measures were to be taken to accelerate the pace of
disbursements for project implementation. In procurement, a new code was to be submitted to the Council
of Ministers for final adoption in September 2002. The internal controls and audits were to be improved
by strengthening the Financial Control Directorate and the General Inspection, both within the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. In addition, the National Accounts Chamber (which was responsible for auditing all
the organizations that receive funds from the State but had very limited operational autonomy, staffing and
resources) was to be restructured into a fully autonomous Court of Accounts.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revision occurred in the Credit's components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


This operation was not formally evaluated for quality by the Quality Assurance Group. Quality at entry is
assessed as satisfactory for the reasons explained below.

Consistency with Bank and Government priorities

ERC objectives were broadly compatible with the 2002 Bank's I-CAS and the Government's
I-PRSP. The I-CAS identified the need for an adjustment operation to provide quick disbursing emergency
financial assistance. The I-PRSP envisaged a set of reforms to improve rural productivity and service
delivery (basic social, economic infrastructure and essential services), which were essential components of
the ERC. Also, the project's components and detailed action plans were broadly consistent with the
government's medium-term reform priorities identified by the government in the Letter of Development



                                                    - 4 -

Policy (LDP).

Quality of design


The design of the project was appropriate with its three main pillars firmly rooted in the Bank's and
the government's strategic policy frameworks. As mentioned above, the objectives of the Credit were
consistent with those stated in the I-CAS­­the liberalization of the agricultural sector, improved delivery of
social services, and enhanced governance and capacity in public institutions. The choice of the lending
instrument for the Credit was also aligned with the I-CAS, which stated that the ERC would: (i) provide
quick disbursing financial assistance to help stabilize the public finances; and (ii) assist in the
implementation of priority reforms for improving rural productivity and service delivery. The preparation
of the project, however, sheds some light on the internal debate and the final design of the project.

The initial project concept called for a quick disbursing operation, mainly focused on the rural sector,
but during policy dialogue it became clear that a broader operation designed to help reestablish government
credibility and broad basis for economic recovery was needed. [ Memo from Jean-Paul Chausse to
Mamadou Dia, 09/24/2001, "RCI ERC draft Concept Paper and ISDS for the Country Team Meeting",
page 1.]. The difficulty of establishing a clear distinction between what is urban and rural for the support
of reforms in the education and health (including HIV/AIDS) also led to a broadening of project scope and
design from a sector approach towards multi-sector, nation-wide approach [Chausse, page 1]. Other rural
components (natural resource management and rural infrastructure) initially considered were dropped as
the project concept evolved toward a multi-sector approach. The ERC had also to be coordinated with
on-going sector operations. Most important, the policy dialogue revealed that it was imperative to provide a
broader-based operation to a country that was subject to major shocks to the foundations of growth and
human development; the broad operation, therefore, aimed to help government jumpstart structural reforms
and reestablish a basis for equitable, broad-based growth. The revised project concept document clarified
that: (i) existing operations in education, health and rural development would continue to deal with issues of
internal efficiency in the respective sectors; and (ii) the ERC would focus on cross-cutting public sector
management issues. [see Memo from Peter N. Gomba to Country Team, 10/05/2001, "Côte d'Ivoire ERC:
Revised Draft Concept Document ­ Request for Sectoral Inputs", attachment "Côte d'Ivoire: Economic
Recovery Credit ­ Draft Concept paper: Summary", page 6.].

As the project progressed through the Bank reviews, its scope was broadened further, to the point
where concern was being expressed that it lacked focus. Memo from Peter Ngomba, 03/08/2002,
"Minutes of ROC Meeting held on March 7, 2002 on Côte d'Ivoire ­ Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
and the Interim CAS (I-CAS)", page 3. Suggestions were made, during the Regional Operations Committee
(ROC) meeting, to drop from the project the difficult policy and institutional issues in the agricultural
sector that may require a sustained effort and a longer time horizon than the one covered by the ERC.
However, some participants and the country team argued that immediate action was needed to handle the
policy and institutional issues in the cocoa/coffee and cotton sectors, which should be in place before the
next crop season (at that time, this meant by September 2002). The ROC recommended that: (i) the credit's
central objectives be brought out more clearly; and (ii) the ERC could possibly focus on fewer priority
areas. Ngomba, page 3. Following a mission to Abidjan in mid-March 2002, the credit's objectives were
refocused into the three key objectives and components as explained in section 3.1 and 3.3 above. [ see
Memo from Mamadou Dia to Callisto E. Madavo and Theodore O. Ahlers, 04/17/2002, "Côte d'Ivoire:
Revised Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), Confirmation of Appraisals by ROC", page 1.].

In retrospect, the broad-based nature of the operation was appropriate and the inclusion of the
reform of the cocoa/coffee sector in the proposed program was inevitable as this was the key sector of
the economy. The nascent reforms in the sector had to be supported. Also, technocratic professionals


                                                      - 5 -

pushing for these reforms needed support against the vested interests. Simply put, the Bank had to be
engaged in the sector despite the existing problems of vested interests. To mitigate the risk that these vested
interests derail implementation, policy dialogue called for future audits of the operation of the regulatory
bodies and this was, indeed, implemented in 2003. These ex-post audits, indeed, revealed governance
problems, but it is not clear what more could have been done ex-ante, during project design, to mitigate
these risks.

Following the ROC recommendation, the credit tranching was adjusted to better reflect the balance
of the policy package and prior actions. Specifically, during the ROC meeting, concern was expressed on
the front loading of the ERC (first tranche $120 million, second tranche $80 million), in view of the
relatively soft nature of the proposed prior actions. Ngomba, page 4. The ROC meeting requested the
project team to review the proposed 60:40 disbursement proposal, based on the strength of the policy
package and prior actions. Memo from Mamadou Dia to ROC Participants, 03/22/2002, "Minutes of ROC
Meeting held on March 7, 2002, on Côte d'Ivoire, Interim Country Assistance Strategy and Economic
Recovery Credit", page 2. The Credit was finalized as a three tranche disbursement ($100 million, $60
million and $40 million). The revision in the tranching proved to be a prudent decision, in light of the
subsequent stalled policy and institutional reforms in the country.

The President's Report could have presented more clearly the expected key impact and output
indicators. Several of these indicators were interspersed in the text. They could have been, however,
summarized in a summary table, including baseline and target data, to facilitate credit monitoring and
evaluation.

The credit also sought to support the national decentralization framework. The credit aimed to
promote targeted programs supporting the empowerment of rural service users ­ farmers' organization,
school parent associations, local health committees. This reflected a justified concern about excessive
centralization which caused inefficiencies in public service delivery and expenditure execution, often
resulting in delays and/or leakages of public funds intended for local beneficiaries. At the same time, the
question remains whether the support of decentralization could have been perhaps better handled in a
separate and more comprehensive operation to promote the decentralization of local finance.
_______________________

1/ Memo from Jean-Paul Chausse to Mamadou Dia, 09/24/2001, "RCI ERC draft Concept Paper and ISDS for the
Country Team Meeting", page 1.

2/Chausse, page 1.
3/ Memo from Peter N. Gomba to Country Team, 10/05/2001, "Côte d'Ivoire ERC: Revised Draft Concept
Document ­ Request for Sectoral Inputs", attachment "Côte d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit ­ Draft Concept
paper: Summary", page 6.
4/ Memo from Peter Ngomba, 03/08/2002, "Minutes of ROC Meeting held on March 7, 2002 on Côte d'Ivoire ­
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and the Interim CAS (I-CAS)", page 3.
 5/Ngomba, page 3.
 6/Memo from Mamadou Dia to Callisto E. Madavo and Theodore O. Ahlers, 04/17/2002, "Côte d'Ivoire: Revised
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), Confirmation of Appraisals by ROC", page 1.
7/ Ngomba, page 4.
8/ Memo from Mamadou Dia to ROC Participants, 03/22/2002, "Minutes of ROC Meeting held on March 7, 2002,
on Côte d'Ivoire, Interim Country Assistance Strategy and Economic Recovery Credit", page 2.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the ERC is judged to be unsatisfactory as most objectives were not achieved,
essentially because of the conflict and related security and political constraints on economic policy
making. Long delays in return to normalcy and territorial integrity and periodic surges of violence since the
outbreak of the civil conflict in September 2002, unfortunately resulted in stalled reforms in all three
project components, especially in the war affected areas. Following the first joint IMF/Bank post-conflict
mission of June 2003, the IMF PRGF was declared off track because of the interrupted structural reforms
and slippages in fiscal policy associated with the conflict. The completion of the PRSP and HIPC decision
points were delayed. Hence, the macroeconomic framework could not be termed adequate. Also, the
government lost administrative and fiscal control in the rebel-held areas and project implementation in those
areas was severely disrupted. While broad development objectives remain appropriate in the medium-term,
in the short-term, post-conflict situation the government was forced to deal with the more pressing
problems such as: (i) restoring durable security; (ii) implementing demobilization and disarmament and
territorial re-integration (DDR); and (iii) re-establishing unified administration and provision of basic social
services in the entire country. These challenges, however, proved more difficult than envisaged and by
end-2003, only limited progress was achieved while the country remained de facto partitioned.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Renewed Broad-based Growth. The objectives of this component were not met, and the component is
rated unsatisfactory (see Table 2 of Annex 1). Growth and equity objectives could not have been met for
both exogenous, conflict-related reasons and internal, policy weaknesses, which were, in turn, amplified by
the difficult security environment. Conflict-related uncertainties, shattered private sector confidence, and
supply constraints on transport and trade have severely limited growth outcome in 2002-03. Instead of
growing at about 2.5-3% per year as projected before the conflict, growth faltered to about ­2 to -4% in
2002-3 period. Poverty increased in the same period by four percentage points to an estimated 42-44% in
2003 (Table 1 below); this estimate includes an estimated million refugees, including 500,000 children who
have been largely out of school since the outbreak of violence. As a result, neither growth nor equity
objectives could have been met under these conditions. On the economic policy side, fiscal management
weakened as military expenditures (including outside normal budget channels) crowded out social spending,
governance deteriorated and structural reforms underpinning the potential growth recovery stalled. The
IMF-supported PRGF was interrupted and in June 2003, the IMF staff concluded that the program could
not be resuscitated. As a result, the maintenance of the adequate macroeconomic framework for the ERC,
which provided macroeconomic underpinnings to structural reforms, could not have been termed
satisfactory.




                                                       - 7 -

Table 1: Expected and Actual Outcomes on Growth and Poverty (in percent)

                                        2002                                      2003
                     Expected   1/          Actual 3/            Expected 1/          Actual 3/

Annual growth        2.6                    -1.6                 2.9                  -3.8

Poverty rate         38                     40-42  2/            36 1/                42-44 2/



1/Côte d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Project, World Bank, June 11, 2002, Annex 6.
2/Based on growth elasticity of poverty of about 0.3.
3/IMF staff data (2003 Article IV Consultation Staff Report) for growth and the Bank's Public Expenditure Review
(December 2003) for poverty estimates.

In the vital cocoa/coffee sector, considerable governance problems were documented both before and
during conflict; privatization program was halted and private sector confidence deteriorated
significantly. A study on the marketing mechanism for cocoa was been undertaken; its results were
discussed with the industry group, the Bank and the IMF. And a new price support mechanism was
introduced. A minimum purchase price was set up at CFAF 625/kg. Subsequently in 2003, however, the
minimum price was reduced because of the decline in world prices and the reported lack of reserves to
support the minimum price. An interim volume ceiling on purchases per exporter was also established.
After considerable discussion with the authorities, the government agreed to undertake initial audits of the
cocoa/coffee regulatory bodies (ARCC, BCC, FRC and the FDPC) before the conflict. ARCC's mandate is
ensuring competition in the regulatory and legal regime governing cocoa/coffee sector; BCC is an exchange
charged with marketing and risk management of cocoa/coffee; FRC's mandate covers financing and
exports of cocoa/coffee; and FDPC's objective is financing of rural development programs using voluntary
producer contributions. These audits were conducted albeit with less than satisfactory cooperation from
some of these bodies and revealed potential governance problems which needed to be followed-up with new
audits of financial flows accumulated under the price support scheme. The new audits covering the period
of the conflict also met with reluctant cooperation from the bodies being audited and the information
provided was not complete. Nevertheless, these incomplete audits concluded that there were likely problems
of management, representation, and the use of funds, as well as the lack of full cooperation by some
regulatory bodies. The Bank's dialogue with the authorities on this issue has been frank and open, but there
was little or no follow up on the audit recommendations that would demonstrate the government's resolve
to tackle this issue. As a result, governance in the sector is deemed as problematic. Second tranche
conditions under this component were not fulfilled before closure date of December 31, 2003 (see Table 2
for the summary of these conditions and their status at loan closure.). Regarding private sector development
and privatization (including CAA, the government's state bank), there was also a delay associated with the
conflict. Confidence in the private sector remains low and sustained return of foreign investors is yet to
happen.




                                                      - 8 -

Table 2: The Status of Second Tranche Conditions on Renewed, Broad-Based Growth, end-2003

Specific second tranche conditions under growth component                                   End-2003
1. Adoption of new regulatory framework for cocoa/coffee marketing based on
competition and excluding any administrative allocations or quotas, unless otherwise          Incomplete 1/
agreed with the IDA.

2. Implementation by BCC/FRC of a competitive marketing strategy for 2002/03
cocoa/coffee crops, excluding any administrative allocations and quotas, unless otherwise     Incomplete 1/
agreed with IDA.

3. Implementation by ARCC, BCC, and FDPCC of the agreed recommendations of the
audit of their activities and financial statements; adoption by them of non-tax levies for    Incomplete 2/
cocoa/coffee in the 2002/03 crop year; and approval of the annual budgets for the crop
year 2002/03.


1/New framework introduced and a study of marketing of cocoa/coffee completed. However, the influence of the
state remained strong and farmer representation weak, while strong vested interests affected adversely performance
of these bodies and gave rise to governance problems.
2/Initial audit recommendations were not followed, and second audits of financial flows could not have been
completed because of the lack of cooperation and full disclosure by some bodies. Non-tax levies and budgets were
approved.

Improved Public Sector Delivery: This component is rated unsatisfactory. Second tranche conditions
under this component were not completed (Table 3). Regarding implementation of delivery of education
and health services, the situation is considerably worse in war-affected areas than before the conflict, due to
disrupted supply (e.g. closed hospitals, schools) and the increased demand from refugees. In the south, the
rising demand also resulted in more difficult and delayed access to services. The enhancement of the
communities via the school committees (COGES) was hampered by the fighting as some 800 of the 3,000
COGES in education remained in the ex-rebel controlled areas. The authorities reported that most of those
unaffected by the war had opened their accounts and had received disbursements. Some progress was
made in the opening of the market for school books. After considerable initial resistance, the Ministry of
Education agreed to work with NGOs in the rebel controlled areas to validate the local primary school
program and facilitate the speedy return of children to schools in the affected zone. As a result of this
intensive dialogue in the final months of project life, notable progress was made in the education sector
starting January 2004, a month after the ERC's closing, particularly in the elimination of the monopoly in
textbook publishing, the distribution of free textbooks to primary schools, and the government approval of
student exams and the opening of the new school year in the ex-rebel held areas. As a result, despite the
overall assessment, this sub-component as it relates to school opening appears marginally satisfactory,
albeit under much more constrained conditions than envisaged at project design stage.




                                                         - 9 -

Table 3: The Status of Second Tranche Conditions on Improved Delivery of Services, end-2003

Specific second tranche conditions under growth component                                     End-2003
1. The signing of agreements between the Ministries of Education and Health, on the one
hand, and the selected education and health sector COGES, on the other; the opening of          Incomplete 1/
bank accounts in appropriate institutions by the COGES; and the deposit of at least 60%
of the budget allocations for the activities of the COGES in those accounts.

2. The opening to competition of textbook publishing and editing for primary education;
and the supply of free textbooks to 43 selected school districts.                               Incomplete 2/


1/Opening of bank accounts and allocations of budget allocation was not made to COGES in the ex-rebel held areas
(about one third of all COGES). Most banks remained closed in the ex-rebel held areas of the north and west and
the government had no information on the functioning of COGES in these areas.
2/Competition was allowed albeit with significant delay compared with initial expectations and supply of free
supply of textbooks was to all 43 districts (several of which were in rebel-held areas) was not completed.

Improved Public Expenditure Management: This component is rated unsatisfactory. During the
turbulence, budget implementation was severely disrupted; external finance dried up; and priorities shifted
towards concerns with national integrity and security. Public expenditure management deteriorated as
standard processes could not always be observed. The government resorted to a sizeable extra-budgetary
financing of military spending. Governance and fiscal transparency deteriorated. With country effectively
cut   in   two    parts--north     and      west    held  by     ex-rebels   and    south   and    center  by the
government­­inter-governmental fiscal relations were broken and the process of decentralization stopped.
Longer-term fiscal issues of resource allocation and medium-term planning receded into the background.
Nevertheless, the treasury continued to operate and manage a very difficult cash flow situation, while
managing to maintain external repayments to the IMF and the Bank. However, since the outbreak of the
war until end-2003, the government was forced to accumulate external arrears to other external (mainly
Paris Club) and internal creditors of about 14% of GDP. Specific second tranche condition under this
component remained incomplete as of the time of loan closure (Table 4).

The Integrated Public Financial Management System (SIGFIP), launched in 1999 to strengthen
budget execution, continued to contribute to a slow implementation of development projects during
this time although there were important improvements since its introduction. The system enables the
government to track the status of public expenditures at any moment and has, therefore, improved
expenditure control capacity of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Budget execution through the
SIGFIP, however, followed steps that unduly slow the entire process. Delays in executing expenditures
were partly due to a high turnover, lack of accountability and inexperience of some Administrative and
Financial Directors (DAAFs), who are key participants in the process. The processing timetable was also
too long, with beneficiaries, in extreme cases, not receiving payments for six months. Weaknesses in fiscal
management continued well into 2003 when an emergency budget was passed with considerable delay.




                                                        - 10 -

Table 4: The Status of Second Tranche Conditions on
Improved Public Expenditure Management, end-2003

Specific second tranche conditions under growth component                                  End-2003

1. Transmission to the National Assembly of the draft laws on Public Procurement and        Incomplete 1/
on the establishment of the Cour des Comptes (Lois de Reglement).


1/Procurement law was transmitted to the national assembly and subsequently passed but Cours de Comptes not
established and there was delay in finalizing the Lois de Reglement for years 2001 and 2002.

The PER, which was restarted with the first post-conflict mission in June and August-September
2003, documented weaknesses in public expenditure management, mostly in the expenditure execution
and control stages. In view of the slow progress with the establishment and capacity building of the public
expenditure review unit within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and new post-conflict needs, the
Bank-led PER (December 2003) was reformulated as a two-stage, rapid analytical response to the new
situation. The report focused on an overview of main macro economic and social effects of the crisis, an
assessment of public expenditure management and expenditure controls, while highlighting the most
pressing governance and transparency issues.

The PER also reached agreement with the authorities to address the SIGFIP related problems of
disbursement of Bank projects by channeling the flow of Bank funds outside normal SIGFIP procedures,
allowing them to faster reach intended beneficiaries.

Other institutional reforms were also delayed: the law to create the Court of Accounts was
resubmitted to the National Assembly in May 2002 but still waiting for approval. The decree on the
reform of the Procurement Code was adopted by the Council of Ministers in September 2002. The
Treasury implemented several measures to strengthen internal capacity, transparency and accountability in
the areas under the control of the central government. Steps were taken to strengthen the Financial Control
Directorate and the General Inspection of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with financial assistance
from the European Union. As mentioned above, a number of measures were undertaken at the end of 2003
to streamline government procedures to facilitate the acceleration of Bank loan disbursements. The overall
performance of public expenditure management system, however, could not be termed as satisfactory
because of major conflict-related pressures on fiscal management and remaining transparency issues.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

There was some limited progress in the institutional development, which was also hampered by the
civil war and the volatile political situation. As discussed in section 4.2 above, some new institutions
were earlier established in the cocoa/coffee sector to provide a more participatory and private-sector driven
regulatory framework. This is deemed organizational progress compared with the previous state marketing



                                                        - 11 -

mechanism. These bodies, however, turned out not to be sufficiently independent from the state or local
vested interests. Audits of these institutions, that were started in 2003, are clearly steps in the right
direction, but follow-up on recommendations is lacking. In the cotton sector, privatization of
CIDT-Nouvelle­­the state-owned cotton ginning and marketing organization­­was stalled. Also stalled
was the restructuring and privatization plan for the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, the main state
bank. Some progress was made in the decentralization of education, with the transfer of budgets to local
school management committees (COGES) in the government controlled areas. Steps were also taken to
open up the competition for the editing and supply of school textbooks. A new public procurement code,
which strengthens the formal legal framework and establishes an independent control system, was approved
by the Council of Ministers in September 2002. The subsequent Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR), however, revealed a number of areas where the letter of the relatively good law differs from
actual, less transparent practices. A decree converting the Chamber of Accounts, responsible for the a
posteriori control of all the State organizations, into a fully autonomous Court of Accounts was submitted
to the National Assembly in May 2002 and still awaits approval. Overall, the institutional development
impact, despite limited progress in the areas noted above, is also rated unsatisfactory.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


From September 2002 through the closure of the Credit at the end of 2003, half of the country was
outside the government's control. The political and security situation severely disrupted project
implementation. For example, out of 3,000 school committees targeted by the program, about 800 were
located in ex-rebel held areas. Politically and practically, the government was unable to establish links with
these committees under conditions of a country cut into two territories. The government's revenues were
also severely impacted by the interruption of the financial flows between the government-controlled areas
and the parts of the country held by the ex-rebels. As donors (including the Bank) sought to remain clearly
impartial during the conflict, they largely avoided new project financing to the government-controlled areas
only. This also led to some tensions in the policy dialogue. The programs assisted by the Credit covered
the areas controlled by the government (which covered the entire territory during the first three months of
implementation) and after the outbreak of the conflict tried, whenever possible, to reach the population in
the areas held by the ex-rebels (e.g., textbooks for school children). For lack of regular access, the Bank's
PER with focus on the impact of the crisis, public expenditure management, and governance and
transparency was only conducted in the government-controlled territory.




 11/In view of the slow progress with the establishment and capacity building of the Public Expenditure Review
Unit within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and new post-conflict needs, the Bank-led PER (December
2003) was reformulated as a two-stage, rapid analytical response to the new situation. The report focused on an
overview of main macro economic and social effects of the crisis, an assessment of public expenditure management
and expenditure controls, while highlighting the most pressing governance and transparency issues.




                                                      - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


The government could have made more efforts to contain the fiscal deficit and extra-budget
expenditures and maintain/improve fiscal transparency and operation of the cocoa/coffee bodies.
Faced with the threat to integrity of the territory and security, however, the government chose to limit
reduce social expenditures to basic spending (and concentrated in the government-controlled areas) and
reduced repayments to many external and internal creditors in favor of a substantial increase in military
expenditures. The government also strengthened control and influence over the vital cocoa/coffee sector, the
key foreign exchange earner, which happens to be mostly located in the government controlled areas of the
south. An IMF recent Article IV consultation report documented that this control involved a diversions of
funds from the cocoa/coffee regulatory bodies managing the sector to support the government's
rearmament program. Given the circumstances, no significant progress was made in the elimination of the
State's role in the cotton sector or in the privatization of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. Progress
was made, on the other hand, in late 2003 with the simplification of government procedures to facilitate
disbursements of the IDA credits in the context of the PER.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Coordinating across ministries suffered during the crisis, in large part because of political differences
among various parties. In the government of national reconciliation (which functioned with some
interruption between April 2003 and March 2004), tensions arose among several ministries and agencies.
Project coordination was hampered by the political frictions among the ministers and officials affiliated
with different parties. At the same time, a core of competent technocrats at the Ministry of Economy and
Finance provided continuity in the Bank dialogue with the authorities.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Due to the political situation in Cote d'Ivoire and implementation difficulties, disbursements under
ERC totaled only $104.3 million out of the $200 million committed.12/ Because of the changed
SDR/dollar rate (the loan was denominated in SDR), the first tranche equivalent at the time of
disbursement was $100 million. Only the first tranche was disbursed, given the insufficient progress in
meeting the second tranche conditionality, particularly the measures relating to the cocoa/coffee sector.
Prospects for meeting the third tranche conditionality also appeared highly unfavorable, mainly due to the
lack of progress in the privatization of the CAA, financial sector, and the CIDT-Nouvelle, in the cotton
sector.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the measures enacted under the ERC is rated as negligible because of the
following reasons. Delays in return to normalcy and territorial integrity resulted in stalled reforms in all
three project components, especially in the war affected areas. Following the first joint IMF/Bank
post-conflict mission of June 2003, the IMF PRGF was declared off track because of interrupted structural
reforms and slippages in fiscal policy associated with the conflict. The completion of PRSP and HIPC
decision points were delayed. While broad development objectives remain appropriate in the medium-term,



                                                      - 13 -

in the short-tem post-conflict situation the government will be forced to deal with the more pressing
problems, such as restoring durable security, implementing demobilization and disarmament and territorial
reintegration (DDR), and restoring provision of basic social services in the entire country.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Under the I-CAS, the ERC was envisaged as the main bridge instrument of IDA's re-engament
strategy in Côte d'Ivoire. The ERC was to provide quick disbursing emergency financial assistance to:
(i) stabilize the public finances; and (ii) improve rural productivity and service delivery (basic social and
economic infrastructure and essential services). No other fast-disbursing support operation was to be
provided prior to completion of a full PRSP and next full CAS. As the ERC implementation was not
successful, the transition to other regular operations could not have been completed.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Bank performance during loan identification and design is assessed as satisfactory. The ERC was
compatible with the I-CAS and the government's medium-term development strategy. There was
considerable and open discussion about the design issues and recommendations of the ROC meeting were
taken into account in the final design. A large team was involved during project preparation. The Concept
Review meeting seems to have tightened the loan's focus to three main pillars. The Credit's appraisal,
however, may have overestimated the government's willingness and commitment to pursue structural
reforms, particularly in the cocoa/coffee sector, which is not only major source of government revenues but
also strong vested interest. The Credit met the five-month standard for time elapsed between appraisal and
board presentation.


7.2 Supervision:


Bank performance during supervision is assessed as satisfactory. Bank missions were suspended for
security reasons for nearly a year since the eruption of the civil conflict in September 2002 and no
supervision could be held in the ex-rebel occupied areas to establish the degree of completion of second
tranche conditions related to delivery of public services. Most of the country was under Phase III security
during this period and Abidjan country office staff had to be transferred to neighboring countries. There
was, however, enough pro-activity to deal with the problems of poor implementation under highly uncertain
conditions. Only the first tranche of the loan was disbursed on effectiveness. After the conflict, supervision
mission resumed in mid-2003 in conjunction with the IMF staff visit; this Bank mission rated project
implementation as satisfactory at that time, in part to give time to the new government to put the reform
program back on track. Following a subsequent mission in November 2003, as it became obvious that no
substantial improvement in project implementation was made, and a decision was taken to close the project
in December 2003, the original closing date. Supervision missions were limited in staffing as there was
limited scope for sector specialists to deal with the areas covered by the Credit (education, health,
agriculture, and banking particularly), given the political situation in the overall country conditions and
major travel restrictions. As a result, because the Bank acted proactively in a highly constrained situation
by factors outside Bank control, Bank performance during supervision is deemed satisfactory.

12/Because of the changed SDR/dollar rate (the loan was denominated in SDR), the first tranche equivalent at the
time of disbursement was $100 million.



                                                     - 14 -

Finally, Project implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Letter of Development Policy
(May, 2002) prepared by the Borrower provided a comprehensive framework for program design. The
Borrower implemented an important series of measures prior to Board presentation, which drove forward
the reform agenda in the three components of the Credit.             There was notable progress in: (i) the
cocoa/coffee sector, with the previous elimination of the Caisse de Stabilisation and the launching of audits
in the sector; (ii) public service delivery, through the initial transfer of budgets for education to the
Community Management Committees (COGES); and (iii) public sector management, through draft laws
for procurement and the preparations for the establishment of a Court of Accounts. Specifically, before
Board presentation, the government took the following actions:

Creating the Conditions for Renewed, Broad-based Growth

(i)      Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a Statement of Privatization Policy, satisfactory to IDA,
         outlining the process of reorganizing and privatizing the CAA and the privatization strategy of the
         CIDT-Nouvelle;
(ii)     Inauguration of a new partnership with the private sector via launching of collaborative work on
         revision of the Fiscal Procedures Manual;
(iii)    Launching of an audit of the activities, procedures and financial statements of ARCC, BCC, and
         FDPCC up to March 2002; and
(iv)     Launching of a study of the regulatory framework a to ensure real competition at all stages of the
         cocoa production chain (filière), and avoid emergence of dominant positions, as well as to define
         the marketing mechanism to be put in place before July 2002 for the 2002-03 harvest;

Expanding Access to and Improving Delivery of Basic Public Services (Health and Education)

(v)      Increasing the allocation for primary schools within the approved 2002 budget of the Ministry of
         National Education by CFAF 6.8 billion (2.8 percent of the current budget of the ministry),
         distributed as follows: CFAF 2.5 billion for textbooks; CFAF 2.2 billion for school kits; CFAF
         1.8 billion for GOGES; and CFAF 0.3 billion for canteens;
(vi)     Allocation within the approved 2002 budget of the Ministry of Health of CFAF 680 million (1.25
         percent of the total) to subsidize the purchase of essential drugs by the poorest and most vulnerable
         people in the health districts of Tiassale, Grand-Lahou, Guiglo and Duekoue; and agreement with
         government on the principles of managing these funds by the GOES for the benefit of the intended
         beneficiaries;
(vii)    Publication of legal texts (decree and arrête) reorganizing the GOGES in the education sector,
         enabling them to manage budgetary resources transferred to them or directly collected by them,
         with a reinforced role and responsibility for parents; and the adoption of a guiding manual of
         procedures;



                                                     - 15 -

(viii)   Agreement on the list of COGES participating in the program of decentralized management in the
         health and education sectors;

Improving Public Expenditure Management

(ix)     Agreement with the World Bank and the EU on a concept paper for the 2002 PER; and
(x)      Transmission to the National Assembly of the audits (Lois de Règlement) of the 1999 and 2000
         budgets, including the reports by the Chambre des Comptes.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory for the reasons outlined
in Section 4. The conflict that erupted in September 2002 and the subsequent split of the country into two
parts diverted the attention of the government from longer-term structural reforms. Project implementation
was affected adversely by country conditions and weakening policy performance across the components,
especially in areas outside control of the government. As a result, major structural reforms critical to the
development of the country's development potential, which were expected to be supported by the ERC,
have yet to be implemented.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Performance of implementing agencies, an inter-ministerial committee, a technical unit, and the line
ministries is deemed unsatisfactory. An inter-Ministerial Committee, chaired by the Prime
Minister/Minister of the Economy and Finance, and including the representatives of the priority sectors,
was to oversee the implementation of the program. This committee did not provide the necessary guidance
because of political frictions among ministries due to different party affiliations. Day to-day supervision
was the responsibility of a Technical Unit to be established within the Prime Minister's Office/Ministry of
Economy and Finance. The unit provided progress reports on the project. The unit's work, however, was
hampered by inadequate cooperation between the ministries. The implementation of individual components
was the responsibility of the relevant ministries and other agencies. Progress in these components stalled,
due to the civil war and ensuing political upheaval, as well as unwillingness of some ministries (e.g.
education) to provide services to the ex-rebel held areas.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. The overall Borrower performance is rated
unsatisfactory because of the conflict conditions that affected project implementation soon after the
approval of the Credit and policy weaknesses in governance, transparency, service delivery and public
expenditure management. Having said that, one must recognize that near-war conditions and changed
priorities of the government from reform to dealing with war affected heavily all aspects of Credit
implementation. While one cannot separate the war conditions entirely from the role of all parties involved
in it, some limited progress in a few areas should be recognized as marginally satisfactory, even though this
came around end of the life of the Credit and under much more constrained conditions. This is the case, for
example, in education (i.e., returning children to school in war affected areas etc.), some progress in
strengthening treasury operation.


8. Lessons Learned

Progress in the implementation of the ERC has been generally inadequate in large part because of the


                                                    - 16 -

conflict related constraints, although very limited progress was made in a few areas. While some
progress was achieved in aspects of public sector management and the initial liberalization of the
cocoa/coffee sector, delivery of social services deteriorated significantly because of the partition of the
country. And privatization of agricultural and financial institutions did not progress.

The experience of this project implementation points to the following main lessons:

   l The conflict that started three months after project approval essentially blocked policymaking and
        reform implementation and led to a substantial decline in population welfare. Post-conflict
        uncertainties lingered for a long time (in this case for 15 months and most of the implementation
        period), resulting in stalling of structural reforms and delays in economic recovery. Under these
        conditions, which were very different from those envisaged at the outset, the initial design of
        development policies and structural reforms underpinning the ERC practically did not matter: key
        reform policies were simply blocked because of major security, political, and budgetary
        constraints. Nevertheless, even under these conditions, some limited reforms were possible if there
        is sufficient political will and technical capacity to deal with the problems under the government
        control.

   l The government commitment to reforms is critical if policy actions are to be sustained but reform
        priorities can change significantly in the wake of a war situation. When designing such operations,
        it is important to try to anticipate likely changes in such commitment and how the project design
        would respond to those changes in an effective manner. Yet, it is especially difficult to gauge in
        politically volatile conditions. For example, during project approval, the successful prior record
        with the IMF-Staff Monitored Program and the on-going PRGF provided considerable comfort that
        structural policy agenda was, indeed, high on the government agenda. However, country conditions
        changed dramatically for the worse three months into the implementation, and these conditions
        became the most important factor of project outcomes. The conflict changed the government's
        short-term priorities from reform to dealing with the conflict.

   l Country volatility was a risk clearly identified in the President's Report of the ERC and the I-CAS
        and draft I-TSS: there was a recognition of a continuous risk that the national reconciliation
        process may stall or reverse. The Bank, together with other donors, was trying to be responsive to
        the volatile situation in Cote d'Ivoire, by supporting the reconciliation process through financial
        and technical support. It was a calculated risk worth taking. Unfortunately, a somber lesson
        follows that sometimes these types of interventions simply do not work in a volatile environment.
        The potential benefits of such interventions, however, are so high, that it is worthwhile for the
        Bank to take a calculated risk and pursue such operations in similar settings. Remaining engaged
        with the country, in these circumstances, was better than staying out.

   l Selectivity and realism are essential when the reform agenda is vast and available capacity might
        be limited compared with the agenda, especially in volatile political situations. Such constraints
        applied in the budgetary expenditure management reforms, which envisaged substantial
        restructuring of institutions, in their scope, organization and budget support. These constraints
        were made even more binding upon the outbreak of the conflict.

   l The design of a quick-disbursing credit in multiple tranches seems appropriate for countries which
        are moving slowly or taking only partial measures for their reforms, or when risk of
        non-implementation is high. This gives the Bank sufficient flexibility to monitor progress of
        reforms more closely and better apply performance-based, fast-disbursing lending under volatile


                                                     - 17 -

        conditions. Three-tranche approach in this case was a prudent choice given the uncertainties and
        the eventual implementation outcome.

    l It took a long time to convince the government of the need for the Bank's exit from this operation
        as country conditions effectively blocked project implementation. In part this reflects the perception
        that when the Bank closes a project, there is a sense (not always justifiable) that the country
        program "loses" these resources as closed projects are not automatically replaced by new project
        funding; it takes time to develop new projects and their approval is uncertain. Within the Bank, this
        situation leads to adverse incentives to prolong decisions regarding exit from operations even when
        conditions call for it. The authorities may also be slow to recognize the inevitable need to close the
        project that has few chances of being resuscitated. A possible lesson for the Bank is to explore
        ways to minimize these incentives and find institutional ways in which a project that should be
        closed can be easily replaced by a new project (with similar funding) that is better tailored to new
        circumstances. Such a mechanism would provide incentives to both the government and the Bank
        staff to react with greater pro-activity to rapidly changing country circumstances.

    l The ERC was just one of a broader Bank strategy and its collection of instruments for the pursuit
        of its dialogue with a country in a post-conflict situation. That strategy also evolved into a draft
        I-TSS designed to guide Bank operations in the post-conflict period. Under the I-TSS, key
        instruments included new lending, active managment and restructuring of the portfolio, and
        economic and sector work (e.g., PER, CPAR). The ERC had a catalytic effect in pursuing a
        country dialogue in the approval stage. But with changed country conditions, this dialogue was
        subsequently carried out through other Bank instruments, notably the restructuring of the portfolio
        to meet post-conflict needs, and the completion of a Public Expenditure Review report geared
        towards systemic public expenditure management issues and the need to increase disbursement of
        the Bank projects. Therefore, one lesson for projects that need to be closed in similarly volatile
        environment is that the Bank needs to develop and put in place quickly a flexible post-conflict
        strategy that will enable it to carry its dialogue with other available instruments, given new
        constraints.

    l The Bank could possibly envisage a more modulated response in the design of specific projects in
        the context of volatile country situations. For example, a low- and high-case scenario could be
        developed at a project level, with related trigger points, to allow the Bank to better respond to the
        volatility. Such a design could, in principle, be cost effective (low transaction cost) and provide
        greater flexibility in the dialogue with volatile countries.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's report was received and will be incorporated in ICR document that will submitted to the
Printshop.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Indicator                                       Projection Prior to Credit Approval, 2002    Actual on Project Closing,
(Source: MOP and Annexes)                                                                    December 31, 2003
A. Creating the Conditions for Renewed
Broad-based Growth
Cocoa sector: individual exporter's share (p.   No more than 10% of total output             Broadly completed
9)
Financial sector: the Government's              20% or less of the outstanding shares        80% of the outstanding
involvement in CAA (p 11)                                                                    shares
Cotton sector: privatization of CDIT-Nouvelle   Elimination of State ownership               Not done.
(p. 11)
Reduced state role in production and marketing (i) Implementation of audits of cocoa/coffee (i)Not done
of crops, leading to higher pass-through of     bodies
prices to producers (p. 9)                      (ii) Unreduced share of price accruing to   (ii) Not done
                                                producers
Real annual growth rate (Annex 2, p. 3)         4%                                           -3.8% growth
Annual inflation rate (Annex 2, p. 3)           Less than 3%                                 4%
Higher private sector saving and investment     10.5% GDI/GDP
(p. 5)
Cost to business of dealing with government    Reduced cost to business                     Unfavorable reports in view of
bureaucracy (p.11)                                                                          conflict
B. Improving Delivery of Basic Public
Services
Education: budget share of GDP (p. 13)          At least 3.8%                                n.a.
Rising share of total education to primary      33.6%                                        n.a.
education (p. 12)
Rising school enrollment, especially for girls  71.4%                                        Decline in enrolment in the
(Annex 2, p. 7)                                                                              north and west
Education: school meals program expansion       At least 4% per annum                        Not done
(p. 13)
Health: generic drugs as % of total purchased   75%                                          Not verifiable
(p. 15)
Education/health: deposit of the budget         At least 60% of the budget allocations       Only in government
allocations in the bank accounts of the COGES                                                controlled areas
(p. 21)
Education: supply of free textbooks to the IEPs In 43 selected school districts              Incomplete.
in the school districts (Annex 2, p. 8)
Increased supply of generic drugs (p. 15, 21)    (i) Completion of a study on procurement        n.a.
                                                 and distribution of essential drugs
                                                 (ii) Improvement of procurement of drugs        n.a.
C. Improving Public Expenditure
Management
Audits: transmission to the National Assembly 2001 budget and report                         Not done.
of budget audits (Annex 2, p. 11)
Revised Procurement Code: transmission by       Transmission to the National Assembly for    Done.
the Government to the National Assembly for     adoption
adoption.(Annex 2, p. 11)
Court of Accounts: law on the creation of the   Transmission to the National Assembly for    Incomplete: was submitted,
Court of Accounts (Annex 2, p. 11)              adoption                                     but no approval by the
                                                                                             National Assembly




                                                            - 19 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                            Component                          US$ million       US$ million
   Creating conditions for renewed broad-based growth            100.00             100.00               100
   Expanding access for improving delivery of basic public        60.00                                    0
   services
   Improving public expenditure management                        40.00                                    0

   Total Baseline Cost                                           200.00             100.00
                              Total Project Costs                200.00             100.00
                        Total Financing Required                 200.00             100.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                           Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                  Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank        Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Creating conditions for      100.00                         100.00                          100.0
renewed broad-based
growth
Expanding access for          60.00                          0.00                           0.0
improving delivery of basic
public services
Improving public              40.00                          0.00                           0.0
expenditure management




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/2002                   2    Education Specialist (1); Human        S               S
                                              Development Specialist (1);
                                              Team Leader
               03/2002                                                               S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               03/2002                   9    Director (1); Team Leader              S               S
                                              (1); Co-team (1); Health
                                              Specialist (1); PSD Specialist
                                              (1); Education Specialist (1);
                                              Consultant (2); Program
                                              Assistant (1)
                                                                                     S               S

 Supervision
               09/12/2002                 1   Lead Economist                         S               S
               12/12/2002                 1   Lead Economist                         S               S
               09/05/2003                 1   Lead Economist                         U               U
               11/24/2003                 1   Lead Economist                         U               U

 ICR
               01/2004 -                 2     Team Leader (1);                      U               U
               05/2004                         Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               10.5                           44,500
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    27.2                          119,401
  Supervision                              7.81                           30,829
  ICR                                      9.41                           25,141
  Total                                   54.92                           220,14




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-    Cabinet du premier ministre, Comité de pilotage des reformes économiques et
     structurelles, secrétariat général aux réformes économiques et structurelles, "Point à la
     mise en oeuvre des mesures préalables du programme d'appuis à la relance économique de
     la Banque Mondiale", Abidjan, le 10 Juin, 2002.

-    Cabinet du premier ministre, Comité de pilotage des reformes économiques et
     structurelles, secrétariat général aux réformes économiques et structurelles, "Note relative
     à la mise en oeuvre des mesures préalables au décaissement de la deuxième tranche du
     crédit d'appuis a la relance économique (ERC) de la Banque Mondiale", Abidjan, le 28
     Novembre, 2002.

-    Communiqué du Comité Interministériel des Matières Premières, Cabinet du premier
     ministre, « Réforme des filières café-cacao et coton », Abidjan, 3 Décembre, 2002.

-    Cote d'Ivoire: Strengthening Public Expenditure Management and Controls (Public
     Expenditure Review), December 16, 2003, Report No. 27141-IVC.

-    Cote d'Ivoire--Public Expenditure Review Mission­­Back-to-Office Report, September
     16, 2003.

-    Documents for the ROC Review of March 7, 2002, "Cote d'Ivoire ­ Economic Recovery
     Credit (ERC) and Transition Support Strategy".

-    Le Ministre d´état, Ministère d´état, Ministère de l'économie et des finances, « Crédit
     d'Appuis à la Relance Economique. Requete de décaissement de la 2ème tranche »,
     Abidjan, 23 Janvier, 2003.

-    Memo from Peter N. Ngomba to Country Team, 10/05/2001, "Cote d'Ivoire ERC:
     Revised Draft Concept Document ­ Request for Sectoral Inputs".

-    Memo from Peter Ngomba, 03/08/2002, "Minutes of ROC Meeting held on March 7,
     2002 on Cote d'Ivoire ­ Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and the Interim CAS (I-CAS).


-    Memo from Mamadou Dia to ROC Participants, 03/22/2002, "Minutes of ROC Meeting
     held on March 7, 2002, on Cote d'Ivoire, Interim Country Assistance Strategy and
     Economic Recovery Credit".


-    Memo from Mamadou Dia to Callisto E. Madavo and Theodore O. Ahlers, 04/17/2002.
     "Cote d'Ivoire: revised Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), Confirmation of Appraisals by
     ROC".

-    Memo from Jean-Paul Chausse to Mamadou Dia, 09/24/2001, "RCI ERC: draft Concept



                                              - 25 -

   Paper and ISDS for the Country Team Meeting".


-  Memo from Jean-Paul Chausse, 10/05/2001,"Cote d'Ivoire ERC ­ Minutes of Thursday,
   September 27, Country Team Discussions".

-  President's Report, "Interim Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Cote
   d'Ivoire", Report No. 24168, May 9, 2002.


-  President's report. "Proposed Economic recovery Credit of SDR 160.2 Million to the
   Republic of Cote d'Ivoire", Report No. P-7541 IVC, May 14, 2002.


-  Aide-Mémoire, « Crédit de relance économique: secteur éducation », Mission du 28
   janvier au 15 février 2002.


-  Aide-Mémoire, « RCI ­ Aide-Mémoire de la mission de pré-évaluation du Crédit d'Appui
   à la Relance Economique (CARE) », Abidjan, le 3 avril 2002.

-  Aide-Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale (du 28 aout au 5 septembre 2003).




                                        - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution




                                        - 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

- 30 -

