Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7541 PVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 160.2 MILLION
(US$200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
May 14, 2002
AFTP4 and AFTR2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 2002)
Currency Unit   =    CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00    =    CFAF 717.52
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
ARCC              Autorite de Regulation du Secteur Cafe/Cacao
BCEAO             Banque Centrale des Etats d 'Afrique de l 'Ouest
BCC               Bourse du Cafe et du Cacao
CAA               Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF              CFA Franc
CIDT              Compagnie Ivoirienne de Developpement des Textiles
CIF               Cost Insurance Freight
COGES             Community Management Committees
Coistab           Caisse de Stabilisation
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                European Union
FDPCC             Fonds de Developpement des Activites des Producteurs de Cafe et de Cacao
FRC               Fonds de Regulation et de Contr6le
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
HIPC              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA               International Development Agency
IMF               International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP            Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP               Letter of Development Policy
MLS               Minist&e charge de la Lutte contre le SIDA
MOH               Ministry of Public Health
MTEF              Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PER               Public Expenditure Review
PIMS              Poverty Impact Monitoring System
PNDEF             Plan National de Developpement du Secteur Education/Formation
PNDS              Plan National de Diveloppement Sanitaire
PNLP              Plan National de Lutte contre la Pauvrete
PRGF              Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
RESEN             Rapport d'Etat sur le systeme EducatifNational
SIGFIP            Financial Management System
SIR               National Refinery Company
SMP               Staff Monitored Program
STD               Sexually Transmitted Disease
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Mamadou Dia
Sector Managers:     Emmanuel Akpa
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
1.    INTRODUCTION .......................................................................I
II.   BACKGROUND ......................................................................1I
Ill.  RECENT ECONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE ....................................................................... 2
IV.   POVERTY STATUS AND THE THRUST OF THE RECOVERY PROGRAM .....................................................3
V.    MEDIUM-TERM       PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ................................................................S
A.    M EDIU M-TERM   O UTLOOF; ..................................................................................  5
B.    FINANCING  REQUIREMENTS  ...................................................................................6
VI.   GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ....................................................................... 7
VIl. IDA'S INTERIM ASSISTANCE STRATEGY.                                                                        7
VIII. THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM, 2002-03 ......................................................................8
A.   CREATING THE CONDITIONS FOR RENEWED BROAD-BASED GROWTH ...........................................................................8
B.   EXPANDING ACCESS TO AND IMPROVING DELIVERY OF BASIC PUBLIC SERVICES (EDUCATION AND HEALTH) ........... 12
C.   IMPROVING PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT ..................................................................................  1 6
IX.   FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT ............................................................. 19
A.   RATIONALE .................................................................................. 19
B.   REFORM ACTIONS TAKEN THROUGH JUNE 2002 ..................................................................................  19
C.   CONDITIONS OF CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS ..................................................................................  20
D.   AMOUNT AND TRANCHING ..................................................................................  20
E.   CONDITIONS OF SECOND AND THIRD TRANCHES ..................................................................................  20
F.   IMPLEMENTATION. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SAFEGUARDS ............................................................................ 22
Fidtuciary Safeg.ards ................................................................................... 23
Donor Coordination ..................................................................................  24
X.    COUNTRY OWNERSHIP, BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................................................  25
Xi.   RECOMMENDATION ......................................................................                   26
BOXES
Box 1: Cote d'Ivoire - Country Profile Summary ........................................................................   4
Box 2: Cote d'Ivoire: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 2000-03 ................................................................ 5
Box 3: C6te d'Ivoire Government Financing Operations, 2001-04 ........................................................... 6
Box 4: PRSP Objectives ........................................................................          7
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Annex 2     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3     Matrix of Policy Measures
Annex 4     Synergy between the ERC and the project portfolio
Annex 5     Cote d'lvoire At-a-Glance
Annex 6     Key Economic Indicators
Annex 7     Social Development Indicators
Annex 8     Status of Bank Group Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower             The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Amount                SDR 160.2 million (US$200 million equivalent)
Terms                Standard IDA terms (40-year maturity and 10-year grace period)
Implementing Agency  Ministry of Economy and Finance
Program Objectives   The government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) supported by
the Credit aims at: (i) creating the conditions for renewed broad-based
growth driven by the rural economy and a private sector that is more
confident about the future; (ii) improving public sector delivery with
participation of local communities; and (iii) improving efficiency and
accountability in public resource management.
Credit Description   The ERC is a quick-disbursing credit of three tranches. Its proceeds
will help the government: (i) meet the costs of the economic recovery
program within a stable macroeconomic environment; and (ii) increase
resource allocation to the priority poverty-sensitive sectors of primary
education and primary health (including the fight against HIV/AIDS).
Benefits             Successful implementation of the ERP supported by the ERC should:
(i) increase incomes and employment opportunities in the rural
economy and create the conditions for strengthened private sector
activity; (ii) expand access to and improve the quality of primary
education and health services, while strengthening local community
(COGES) participation in the delivery of such services; and (iii)
improve budget formulation, execution and monitoring and reporting,
while strengthening accountability.
Risks                The program faces three risks: (i) new external shocks may create
financing difficulties; (ii) renewed social unrest could interrupt the
reforms; and (iii) capacity limitations may delay some reforms.
(i)   The possibility of new external shocks is the most serious risk.
Conservative estimates of inflows have built some safety
margins into the macroeconomic framework.  The recent
upturn in cocoa prices, in particular, increases the flexibility for
dealing with new shocks.



(ii)  The probability of the national reconciliation process stalling
has diminished somewhat following the successful National
Reconciliation  Forum  of October 2001.  The broad
participation of all segments of the population in the PRSP
process also furnishes an outlet for expressing any discontent,
propels the reconciliation forward, and builds consensus
around key elements of the reform program.
(iii)  The technical capacity of the government may be tested by the
volume of tasks to accomplish to implement the reforms. Care
has been taken in program design to limit its complexity and
technical support is being coordinated from partners to further
mitigate this risk.
Disbursements        The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche of
SDR 80.1 million (US$100 million equivalent) will be disbursed upon
credit effectiveness. This front-loading is justified by the strength of
the program (upfront measures to consolidate the liberalization of the
cocoa/coffee markets; allocation of more budgetary resources to
primary health and education, to be used by local community
management groups where the poverty impact would be greatest, and
targeting more of these services to the most disadvantaged; and
reinforcement of accountability through the presentation of audited
budgets for the years 1999 and 2000 to the Parliament). It also helps
to facilitate the orderly execution of the public expenditure program.
The second and third tranches of US$60 million equivalent and US$40
million equivalent, respectively, will be released upon satisfactory
implementation of the program as a whole and the fulfillment of
specific conditions.
Financing Plan       100 percent IDA financing, with parallel financing from the European
Union, African Development Bank, the IMF, France, and other
bilateral partners of Cote d'Ivoire.
Poverty Focus        The ERC-supported program is expected to contribute to a reduction
of income poverty in rural areas, as higher pass-through of world
market prices to producers of cocoa and coffee happens in a more
competitive environment; the producers representatives in ARCC and
BCC become more accountable (and more efficient as a result), and
reduce the level of non-fiscal levies collected from the farners for
their operational budget and the reserve fund. The program is also
expected to improve human development outcomes among the poor by
expanding access to and improving the quality of basic education and
health services, as a result of higher budgetary resources going to such
services; greater community management of the services; some



targeting of free school supplies and subsidies for essential drugs to
the very poor; and greater general availability and affordability of
basic inputs (essential prices and school textbooks and supplies).
Environment Rating    Category C
Project ID Number     CI-PE-P071375






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire for SDR 160.2 million, the
equivalent of US$200 million. The ERC would provide assistance to C6te d'Ivoire during the
country's recovery from the turmoil that followed the military coup in December 1999. Coming
after three years of sharp economic decline, the turmoil resulted in a significant deterioration of
economic and social conditions of the poor in particular. As part of the preparation of an Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), the Ivorian authorities have prepared an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) with the objective of recovering the lost ground and creating the basis
for future progress.
2.    The ERP, for which they are seeking support from development partners including IDA,
will be implemented during 2002-03, and will be the precursor of programs that the authorities
expect to launch following the completion of their full PRSP. The proposed ERC would be the
main instrument of IDA's support to the ERP. It would: (i) provide quick disbursing financial
assistance to help stabilize the public finances; and (ii) support a set of priority reforms to
promote rural productivity and competitiveness, improve service delivery, and strengthen public
resource management and accountability.
II. BACKGROUND
3.    Once hailed as one of Africa's few stable and successful countries, Cote d'Ivoire
witnessed unprecedented instability during 1999 and 2000. In December 1999, a military coup
ousted President Konan Bedie and was followed by a "national salvation government" led by the
military junta of General Guei until its own ouster in October 2000. Although the December
1999 coup was bloodless and greeted with relief by the population and political parties, the
transition period up to the Presidential election of October 2000, from which some opposition
candidates were excluded, was marked by increasing violence and human rights abuses.
Political tensions have since eased. Peaceful municipal elections were held in March 2001 and
the long awaited "national reconciliation forum" was launched in October 2001 to mend the
country's social fabric and consolidate social peace. This was followed by a meeting in January
2002 of the four major party leaders who agreed to continue the reconciliation process and
adopted a 14-point resolution for that purpose, along with an implementation plan.



Cote d'Ivoire                                                                2
4.    The Ivorian authorities are aware that return of political stability and economic growth
will depend on continued democratic reforms and the implementation of sound economic
policies, as well as the resumption of external aid. After the municipal elections and the
launching of official investigations into the human rights violations which occurred at the end of
2000, the European Parliament agreed in June 2001 that the conditions were met for a gradual
resumption of its dialogue with the new government. The European Union (EU) has decided to
fully resume its aid program. In August 2001, the IMF approved a six-month Staff Monitored
Program (SMP) for the Cote d'Ivoire. Successful implementation of the SMP paved the way for
the preparation of a program to be supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF), which was approved by the IMF's Board in March 2002. The government has
launched the preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Program using a process which allows
for the participation of all segments of the Ivorian society. An Interim PRSP (I-PRSP) was
completed in February 2002, and the full PRSP is scheduled to be completed in a year.
III. RECENT ECONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE
5.    During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Ivorian economy suffered from economic
decline, weak public finance and increasing impoverishment of the population. The devaluation
of the CFA Franc in 1994 started a reversal of that trend. Economic growth resumed in 1994,
accelerating to 6.5 percent p.a. on average during the 1995-97 period. In 1997, the government
adopted a National Poverty Reduction Plan (Plan National de Lutte contre la Pauvrete-PNLP),
focused on: (i) spurring wide-spread economic growth through the continuation of the
liberalization of the economy and the promotion of private sector development; (ii) improving
basic infrastructure (in particular roads and water supply); (iii) improving social service delivery;
and (iv) reforming the agricultural sector policies to boost productivity, competitiveness and
income. The incidence of poverty declined globally from 37 percent in 1994 to 33.6 percent in
1998 and the government appeared on track towards significant progress in its poverty
alleviation objectives.
6.    Although the economy responded well to the devaluation and macroeconomic
stabilization policies, implementation of structural reforms and pro-poor policies fell short of
expectations. Economic growth decelerated sharply in 1998 and real GDP fell by 1.5 percent in
1999, due to growing political instability, a deterioration in the country's terms of trade, deep
cuts in the public investment program, and weakening private investor confidence. Public
expenditures in favor of priority sectors dwindled and structural reforms stalled when economic
growth faltered, external assistance dried up and political and social unrest escalated. In
response to slippages in macroeconomic management, governance issues and the stalling of
structural reforms, the IMF suspended its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in
early 1999. The situation deteriorated further in 2000 with real GDP contracting by 2.5 percent.
The government failed to meet its debt service obligations. External and domestic arrears
reached 14 percent of GDP in 2000. Despite some signs of recovery in 2001, particularly in
manufacturing and services, real GDP declined further by 1 percent.
7.    The adoption of the SMP marked a turnaround. The program included important
macroeconomic stabilization measures and critical structural reforms in the coffee/cocoa, energy,



Economic Recovery Credit                                                       3
electricity and financial sectors, defined with the help of Bank staff. Performance under the
SMP was satisfactory. All quantitative macroeconomic benchmarks were met, and substantial
progress was also achieved on structural reforrns.
8.    In the cocoa sector, the new Caisse de Stabilisation (Caistab) was liquidated in
December 2001, after the new institutions in charge of managing the sector in a competitive
environment were established; and the government launched a strengthened program to recover
Caistab's claims on defaulting exporters. In the electricity sector, the government took measures
to eliminate a CFAF 50 billion sector deficit (through a tariff increase and cost-reducing
measures shared by the government and energy suppliers). Agreement was reached on a strategy
to liberalize the energy sector, and reduce the CFAF 42 billion deficit of the national refinery
company (SIR) and privatize it. In the financial sector, the Savings and Postal Agency (CECP)
was split into two separate agencies and agreement was reached on the restructuring of the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA). Finally, the government succeeded in preventing an
increase in domestic and external arrears. The government repaid its arrears to IDA on January
30, 2002, leading to the full resumption of disbursements under the on-going portfolio.
9.    This satisfactory performance by C6te d'Ivoire significantly improved its prospects for a
return to sustained economic growth. It also paved the way for the preparation of a program to
be supported by the IMF under its PRGF, which was approved by the IMF Board in March 2002.
This program which covers the period 2002-04 focuses on: (i) restoring macroeconomic stability;
(ii) improving public finance management; and (iii) normalizing relations with creditors by
eliminating arrears on domestic and external debt. It will complement the proposed ERC, in
supporting key structural measures with macroeconomic relevance in the cocoa, electricity and
financial sectors, ensuring a satisfactory level of verified spending in the health and education
sectors and supporting measures aimed at strengthening public and corporate governance.
IV. POVERTY STATUS AND THE THRUST OF THE RECOVERY PROGRAM
10.   Household surveys conducted in 1985, 1995, and 1998 show that poverty is most
prevalent in rural areas. Over half of the rural population live below the poverty line and about
three quarters of all poor are rural. Of the 4 million active rural population, 61 percent are wage
employees and sharecroppers who earn less than a third of what cocoa farmers eam. School
enrollment rates amongst children of this group are frequently as low as 20 percent. The surveys
highlight the very negative impact of the economic recession which prevailed through most of
the 1980s and early 1990s (poverty rose from 10 percent in 1985 to 37 percent in 1995 before
falling slightly to 33.6 percent in 1998), as well as the high and growing disparities in income (in
1998 the income of the 10 percent richest households was 13 times that of the 10 percent
poorest).



C6te d'Ivoire                                                                                       4
Box 1: Cote d'lvoire - Country Profile Summary
C6te d'lvoire has a population profile with
an estimated 43 percent of the population                         C8te                     Burldna
being less than 15 years old.  The                              d'Ivoire  Ghana   Nigeria   Faso
population of 17 million is still growing  Human Development Index  0.42   0.56    0.44      0.31
rapidly (3.3 percent per year) and is rapidly  Real GDP/head (US$ inPPP)  1,598  1,735  795  870
becoming urbanized (46 percent of total  Life Expectancy (years)   47       61      51       45
population), with Abidjan. alone (3.5  Adult Literacy (%)          45       69      61     . 23
million) accounting for about one fifth of  Population without access to
the country's total population. Population  Safe water .58                  35      51      58
density is moderate at 45 inhabitants/sq km  Health services       40.      75      33'       30
(81 in Ghana), although it can reach more  Sanitation              61       68      59M      ;63
than 100/sq km in parts of the more fertile  Combined primary secondary/  41  43    43i       22
Southern region where increasing land  tertiary school gross
pressure has resulted in rapidly escalating  enrollment rate(%/0)                      ,
clashes over land access. All indicators of
social welfare are low, with poor access to health care, high infant mortality rates, widespread ghildren mnalnutrition, low
enrollment and literacy rates and an average life expectancy of 47 years (and expected to decline further because of the impact
of the HIV/AIDS pandemic). They compare poorly with those in neighboring countries.
Source: SIMA and National Sources
11.     According to the 1998 survey, the highest proportion of poor rural households was found
in the savannah zone (55 percent). In the forest zone, poverty levels varied between 25 percent
and 47 percent. Poverty was most acute among food crop farmers (58 percent) and agricultural
laborers/sharecroppers, but poverty was also high among export crop producers (43 percent).
The dramatic fall in the price of Cote d'Ivoire's main export crops in 2000-01 (40 percent for
cocoa, more than 50 percent for coffee and 25 percent for cotton) has had a major impact on
agricultural incomes and rural poverty, to the extent that cocoa and coffee provide the bulk of
cash income in the forest region, and cotton in the savannah region. Finally, qualitative
assessments showed that Ivorians place great importance on economic as well as non-economic
factors in evaluating their sense of well-being. Hence, in addition to access to health and
education services, the precariousness of income sources, exclusion from social networks and
lack of empowerment were all identified as critical elements of poverty. The 1995 survey
concluded that, in addition to sharecroppers, women and people living with AIDS felt
particularly vulnerable and marginalized.
12.     In view  of the poverty characteristics, the pillars of the ERP are well chosen to help
recover lost ground and prepare the basis for future progress on poverty reduction. A more
competitive and resilient rural economy would raise performance overall and also procure for the
farmers a growing share of the value of their products. Growing private sector confidence in the
economy could help the Cote d'Ivoire regain the private investment levels of the pre-decline
years and be the basis of new secondary and tertiary sector jobs and incomes in the urban areas.
These in turn would strengthen households' capacities to pay for the needed education and health
services. The policy and institutional changes being put in place by the ERP should expand
availability of these services; improve their relevance with community action; and also improve
the access of those who are particularly disadvantaged.



Economic Recovery Credit                                                         5
V.    MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A.    Medium-Term Outlook
13.   The    government's
objective is to achieve an        Box 2 CoteAd'Ivoire: Key Macroeconomic Indicetors,2900-03
average real GDP growth of                                 2000,  2001  2002  2003
4 percent p.a. over the 2002-                                          (Proj.) (ProJ.)
2005 period, with the growth  GDP Growth                    -2.3  -0.9   3.0   4.5
percet in Gross Investment/GDP (%/)      10.6   9.9  13.5   14.6
rate rising from 3 percent in  Gross National Savings/GDP(%)  7.7  7.4   11.8  13.4
2002 to 5 percent in 2004.  CPI Inflation, period avg., (%)  2.5   4.4   3.0   3.0
This is expected to decrease  Overall Fiscal DeficitlGDP (%) (incl. grants)  -1.3  1.2  -0.5  0.2
exp h eadcunt poved ty index ICurrent Account Gap/GDP (%) (incl. grants)  -2.9  -2.5  -1.7  -1.2
the headcount poverty index-                        -  -
from 33.6 percent in 1998 to 30 percent in 2005. The recovery in 2002 will be helped by the
resumption of external assistance and externally funded public investments. The rural economy
is expected to contribute to this turnaround, with agriculture going from a decline of nearly 6
percent in 2001 to an increase of 2 percent and to above 3 percent p.a. over the medium term.
This outlook is expected to be supported by a gross investment rate averaging some 13 percent of
GDP p.a. over the period. Financing for this is expected to come partially from domestic savings
projected to average some 12 percent of GDP p.a. and thus permit higher investment levels
beyond the 2002-04 recovery period. Activities in the manufacturing and service sectors are
expected to pick up in 2003, when both consumer and government spending accelerate, private
investors' confidence returns, trade and transport activities grow again as C6te d'Ivoire slowly
regains its position as a regional transit hub, and new oil fields come into production.
14.   With improved resource mobilization (revenues rising from 16.6 percent of GDP in 2001
to some 17.8 percent during 2002-04) and expected fiscal discipline, the budget deficit declines
from -1.1 percent of GDP in 2001 to less than -0.1 percent during the period 2002-04, despite
the increased resource allocation to priority sectors and basic public infrastructure. This level of
fiscal deficit is financed by the expected program aid and debt relief, at the same time as
domestic bank debt is gradually retired. With the rising output and prudent financial policies, the
inflation rate falls from some 4 percent in 2001 to about 2 percent during 2002-04, making it
possible to protect the income gains from the recovery.
15.   External sector policies for the medium term emphasize diversification of exports and
reduction of the debt burden to sustainable levels in the context of the HIPC Initiative. Using
end-2000 data and the macroeconomic assumptions of the PRGF-supported program, the Debt
Sustainability Analysis carried out for the Preliminary Document of the enhanced HIPC
Initiative showed that, after full application of traditional debt-relief mechanisms, Cote d'Ivoire's
external debt would be unsustainable in terms of the NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio, at 397
percent. The NPV of debt-to-exports ratio would be 145 percent. On the basis of the end-2000
data, the Cote d'Ivoire would thus qualify for relief under the fiscal/openness window.
Assuming a Decision Point in September 2002, after relief under the enhanced initiative, the
NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio would fall from 180 percent in 2002 to 166 percent at the
Completion Point in 2004; and fall further to 55 percent in 2020. In 2002, the debt service-to-
revenue ratio would decline from 33 percent after traditional mechanisms to 21 percent under the



Cote d'Ivoire                                                                    6
enhanced HIPC Initiative. At the Completion Point, the debt service-to-revenue ration would be
20 percent, and it would fall to about 5 percent in 2020. Under an alternative scenario, where the
projected real GDP growth rate is reduced by 2 percent (from an average of 5.7 percent in the
base case), the debt level would still be sustainable as long as the ensuing financing gap is filled
by new concessional borrowing.
16.   Under the base case projections, it is projected that the external current account deficit
would decline from 2.5 percent of GDP in 2001 (in the presence of arrears) to an average of 1.5
percent of GDP over the period 2002-04 (with HIPC debt relief in play, including the resolution
of arrears). This gap is expected to be covered by disbursements under the project portfolio, and
program aid as indicated below.
B.    Financing Requirements
17.   Government financial operations over the 2002-04 period are projected to result in
overall deficits (on a cash basis but excluding HIPC transactions) averaging CFAF 113 billion or
less than 1.5 percent of GDP. The gap widens when external debt due is taken into account.
Debt relief then intervenes as part of the financing.
18.   For the year 2002, the total
financing requirements are estimated  .Box63: Cote,d'lvoire Goverume,tFinancial Qpera,Oons,-2001-04 
at CFAF 1440 billion (US$ 2,060                                  (in billions CFA"'
2001   202   2003 --2004
million), or 18 percent of GDP.                      ;              Po     r    E2 0
Debt relief from  the Paris and   Overa balance               93    -41    1.3  11F
London Clubs is expected to armount  Changeindomestic arars  - 24 .  -8; .   -119 I  I 18
Overll bilance (CaSh -ass)9       -128: -106 ~,-107-
to CFAF 984 billion, leaving a
residual financing gap of CFAF 456  Financing                 -69   -931' -10   -i4
Domesticfti~ncing ~     -99    -95. -03   -14
billion (US$ 626 million)'. This gap  External financing-,,  ,-  30 - --1217, ^"-207>- -ii4
is after an assumed repayment of  Financing Gap '                   1440'  16   395
some CFAF 95 billion in domestic  Finanicing' theGap                1440   416-  395
arrears. It would be financed by the  DebtRelief                     984
IMP                 :~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~10865 65
IMF (CFAF 108 billion or US$148       I bA  ,                        18    3
million), IDA through the proposed    Al:B                           42-
ERC (CFAF 118 billion or US$162       Eu                             39'
France                         120zi
million), the African Development    :Other Bilateral                29'
Bank (CFAF 42 billion or US$58
million), the European Union (CFAF 39 billion or US$53 million), France (CFAF 120 billion or
US$164 million), and other bilateral donors (CFAF 29 billion or US$40 million).
1 It is expected Cote d'Ivoire will become eligible for debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative with a decision
point around October-2002.



Economic Recovery Credit                                                                              7
VI. GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
19.     Early in 2001, the new    government launched a national debate on the main lines of a
priority medium-term program (la Refondation) to address the main aspirations of all segments
of the population. In May 2001, a national workshop -- attended by representatives from
government, academia, civil society, the private sector and development partners -- was
organized to launch the preparation of a PRSP. The workshop concluded that the major
constraints to growth and equitable development in C6te d'Ivoire, to be urgently addressed under
the PRSP, were: (i) faulty policies, excessive public intervention, a cumbersome regulatory
environment and poor governance, including the incapability of the judicial system to fairly
administer the laws and protect individual rights and properties; (ii) an ineffective and overly
centralized public sector, with an excessive public intervention, public expenditure allocations
and poor management and control of public finances; and (iii) the exclusion of the poor and
vulnerable groups, in particular in rural areas, from income opportunities and decision-making
processes. A Working Group -- including representatives from the public and private sectors and
from civil society -- was established under the leadership of the Prime Minister to prepare an I-
PRSP, in early 2002, with a full PRSP to follow in 2003.
20.     The I-PRSP presented to the Boards of the Bank and Fund provides strong evidence of
the government's commitment to poverty alleviation and an adequate macroeconomic
framework for the period under consideration. It describes the detailed participatory process that
will lead to the design of the full PRSP and outlines the thrust of the government's poverty
alleviation  strategy.   Set in the longer-term     framework     of "C6te d'Ivoire 2025", the I-
PRSP/PRSP has the following objectives:
Box 4: PRSP Objectives
The main poverty reduction objective is to reduce the poverty rate in the medium term from 33.6 percent in 1998 to 30
percent in 2005. In particular, the aim is to:
(I) Achieve an economic growth rate of 3 percent in 2002 and of over 4 percent on average for.the 2003-2005 period, create
jobs, and increase the income of the population;
(ii) Ensure equitable access to basic social services and to decent living conditions; and
(iii) Reduce regional and local inequalities and disparities.
These objectives are to be pursued through the following strategic priorities:
I. Promotion of the private sector as a growth engine and support for rural development to create.income and jobs;
2. Improving equitable access to and the quality of basic social services;:
3. Decentralization as a means for the people to participate in the development process, and reduction of regional disparities;
and
4. Promotion of good governance and capacity building to allow for better resource allocation and use.
VII. IDA'S INTERIM ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
21.     IDA's re-engagement strategy focuses on private sector-led growth, improved public
sector management and improved service delivery. The proposed IDA assistance during the re-
engagement period is outlined in the accompanying Interim Country Assistance Strategy (I-
CAS). The I-CAS includes three main components:



Cote d'Ivoire                                                                8
(i)   providing critically needed quick disbursing support through the proposed ERC
and a following adjustment credit in 2003, to ensure that the required external
financing is available and that essential public services are adequately funded;
(ii)  supporting national programs in health, education, transport, urban and rural
development through the on-going portfolio, which is being restructured to focus
on local community development, decentralized service delivery, and capacity
building at all levels; and
(iii)  supporting the government's national HIV/AIDS program through a multi-
sectoral HIV/AIDS project.
22.   Improved service delivery will be at the core of IDA's assistance strategy. It will be built
on establishing a strong synergy between on-going sectoral programs and targeted external
financing support under the proposed ERC (and future quick-disbursing credits that may support
the country's medium-term poverty reduction strategy). The ERC will support inter-sectoral and
cross-cutting issues (such as public sector management), while intra-sectoral priorities and
efficiency issues will be dealt with under the specific sectoral programs (Rural Community
Support Program, National Agricultural Services Program, National Integrated Health Program,
National Education and Training Support Program and Transport Sector Adjustmnent Program).
The focus of this re-engagement strategy is fully in line with the country's immediate
recovery/reconstruction needs and longer-term development needs as reflected in the I-PRSP.
VIII. THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM, 2002-03
23.   As set forth in detail in the Ivorian authorities' Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2),
and summarized in the Policy Reforms Matrix (Annex 3), the basic aim of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) is to recover the ground lost owing to the combined effects of the
economic decline during 1998-2001 and the socio-political turmoil of 1999-2000, and set the
stage for future progress. The specific objectives are to: (i) create the conditions for renewed
broad-based growth, in particular in the rural and private sector development; (ii) improve the
delivery of public services to the poor, using and building local capacity to manage these
services; and (iii) improve efficiency and accountability in management of budgetary resources.
The ERP represents an articulation of the authorities' program as it has evolved since the SMP
and as stated for PRGF support.
A.    Creating the Conditions for Renewed Broad-based Growth
24.   Renewed broad-based growth will be pursued through reforms in two areas: (i)
stimulation of agriculture sector growth; and (ii) promotion of private sector development.
Amriculture Sector
25.   In the agriculture sector, the authorities' medium-term policy goals are to promote the
role of market forces in the productive chain of the main crops so as to raise the share of value
added that accrues to producers; improve market access through the provision of better



Economic Recovery Credit                                                       9
infrastructure, and communication and information systems; enhance access by producers to
appropriate adapted technologies; and generally encourage diversification and derivation of
higher value from products. To achieve these, the government plans to: (i) promote effective
competition at all levels of the cocoa/coffee value chain; and (ii) foster a more competitive
cotton sector.
26.   Ensuring Effective Competition in the Coffee/Cocoa Chain. As part of ongoing
reforms, a new institutional framework has been put in place for the coffee and cocoa sectors. It
comprises: (i) the Autorite de Regulation du Secteur Cafe- Cacao - ARCC, is responsible for
implementing the legal and regulatory framework to guarantee competition at all levels; (ii) the
Bourse du Cafe et du Cacao - BCC, is in charge of the trading of coffee and cocoa, including a
mechanism to allow producers to manage their price risk; (iii) the Fonds de Regulation et de
Controle - FRC, has the responsibility for the financial management of export operations; and
(iv) the Fonds de Developpement et de la Production de Cafe et de Cacao - FDPCC, is in charge
of financing producer-sponsored development programs using resources contributed by the
producers. The next steps are to ensure that these institutions function to enable the sectors to
become more competitive and efficient.
27.   To achieve these, the authorities intend to ensure that: (i) the new regulatory framework
functions in a way that   avoids concentration of market power; (ii) there is true
representativeness, and therefore the legitimacy, in the governance bodies of the recently-
established institutions and that their operations are transparent and efficient; (iii) there is an
export mechanism which would optimize export receipts while allowing producers to manage
price risk; and (iv) the currently high level of taxes and levies is reduced.
28.   Regulatory Framework. The government would like to avoid the concentration of
market power in a few hands and also promote small- and medium-scale national exporters. To
guard against concentration and while waiting to work out the definitive regulatory framework,
the ARCC put in place for the 2001-02 crop year, an interim measure restricting an individual
exporter's share to no more than 10 percent of the expected total output. The government will
undertake a study of the appropriate regulatory measures to put in place to avoid the emergence
of concentration without recourse to quantitative restrictions. This regulatory framework will be
introduced before the marketing of the output of the 2002-03 crop year.
29.   The government is also aware that many distortions and rigidities exist in other areas of
the productive chain, that hurt efficiency and impose costs on producers. It is also desirous of
finding the best ways to help producers: (i) increase productivity via access to appropriate
adapted technologies; and (ii) diversify output and derive higher value from their output. In
order to find ways forward on these concerns, a second study will be undertaken in 2002 to
review the role that the regulatory framework might play in achieving greater efficiency in the
various activities of the value chain: primary purchase, bagging, transit and phytosanitary
treatment, and processing.
30.   Representativeness, Efficiency, and Accountability of the New Institutions (BCC, FRC,
FDPCC). The authorities plan to ensure that: (i) the weight of various partners in the governing
structures and the modality of the operation of the latter allow full participation in decision



Cote d'Ivoire                                                               10
making; and (ii) the representatives fully represent their bases. With the mandate of the
producers' representatives on the first Board of the Administration of the BCC having expired on
December 31, 2001, the government intends to ensure open and fair election of the new
delegates before June 30, 2002. The government will also ensure that the ARCC, the BCC, and
the FRC have clear internal policies and operational procedures that are known to all; prepare
annual programs and budgets that are adopted by their governing bodies; and have satisfactory
management systems. New operational policies and internal procedures will be adopted by June
2002.
31.   Export Mechanism and Market Risk Management. During the 2001-02 season, the
marketing of cocoa took place in a transitional mechanism allowing actual farm-gate prices to be
freely determined by the market above a minimum farm-gate price announced by the BCC and
based on world market prices. This system has worked well and allowed producers to benefit
from the recent price increase on the international market. The BCC will decide a new system
for the 2002-03 crop year.
32.   The new system to be put in place by end-July 2002 will be based on the
recommendations of a study to be undertaken shortly. Before its entry into effect, the
government will ensure that the new system has been discussed by the general Assembly of the
BCC/FRC and that it receives the support of the main participants in the sector. The government
will also eliminate all administrative allocative systems, including quotas or other quantitative or
financial restrictions. The system will be in place before the start of the marketing of the 2002-
03 crop.
33.   Taxation and other Levies. Currently, taxes and levies on cocoa total CFAF 300/kg, or
some 30 percent of the CIF price. The government's share, in the form of the DUS and the
registration tax amount to CFAF 197/kg, or some 20 percent of the CIF price or the maximum
tax level set by government. In addition, an amount of CFAF 9.2/kg is collected for the
operation of the new institutions (ARCC, BCC, and FRC); an additional CFAF 60/kg goes
towards a prudential reserve fund; and an extra CFAF 35/kg is collected on behalf of the
producers to fund the FDPCC.
34.   In the short term, government will ensure that the level of para-fiscal levies are justified
by the clearly-identified activities. The levies going to the ARCC, BCC, and FRC will be
justified on the basis of their work programs and budgets as approved by their governing bodies;
the prudential reserve fund will be capped and its management rules clearly defined; and the
levies for the FDPCC will be justified on the basis of activities requested by a majority of
producers. These levies currently amount to 10 percent of the CIF price. While it does not have
a direct say in the setting of these levies, the government thinks that the level is rather high, and
has signaled to the farmers' representatives the need to find ways to reduce them on the basis of
a rigorous review of the activities financed. As a start towards this objective, an audit of the
budget, operations and financial statements of the ARCC, BCC, and FRC for the period year
2001 through March 2002 will be audited; and clear operational guidelines, program and budget
will be prepared on the basis of the audit results for the adoption of their governing bodies by the
start of the 2002/2003 crop year. In the medium term, the government plans to work towards a
reduction of these levies on the coffee/cocoa sectors and the establishment of a tax-cum-



Economic Recovery Credit                                                      11
incentive system that would be more favorable to the development of these sectors. In the
meantime, based on the findings of the audit, new - and, hopefully, lower -- levels of the para-
fiscal levies will be set for the 2002/2003 crop year, based on the findings of the audit.
35.   Cotton Sector. The government has renewed its commitment to liberalize the cotton
sector. To this effect, the government organized in January 2002, with all concerned parties,
national workshops on cotton (les ateliers nationaux du coton) to discuss a strategy to introduce
competition at all levels within a two-year period. The workshop recommendations were to: (i)
introduce competition at all levels of the sector, within a legal and regulatory framework
permitting entry and competition at all levels; and (ii) privatize CIDT-Nouvelle within the
context of a sector open to competition.
Private Sector DeveloDment
36.   The crisis experienced by the Cote d'Ivoire since the year 2000 has diminished the
attractiveness of the environment to investors. The recovery of the economy requires the
restoration of investor confidence and of good relations between the government, investors and
workers. In view of this, the government's strategy towards the private sector focuses on
pursuing the divestiture program; improving security of people and properties and of the legal,
judicial and regulatory environment of enterprises; improving access to markets and services;
reinvigorating the financial sector; and reducing factor costs. Specifically, under the ERP, the
government plans to relaunch the privatization process; pursue the rehabilitation of the financial
sector; and re-establish confidence with the private sector.
37.   Relaunch of the Privatization Process. The government plans to take actions to relaunch
the privatization process as a way to promote the growth of the private sector as a source of
employment and income generation. To do so, the government will adopt a Letter of
Privatization Policy in which it will set out its vision, the institutional framework, and its
intentions regarding the portfolio of enterprises remaining to be privatized.
38.   Pursuit of Rehabilitation of the Financial Sector. The government will finalize the
restructuring plan for the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) by the end of June 2002.
Among other things, this plan will provide for the reimbursement of the governnent's debt to the
CAA; the restructuring proper of the CAA, and subsequent reduction of the government's
involvement to 20 percent or less of the outstanding shares, by end-2003. As part of the progress
on this path, the government expects by the mid-2003 to identify a qualified technical partner for
the CAA; and privatize (offer for sale to willing buyers) at least 51 percent of the outstanding
shares. This process has been confirmed by the government in its Letter of Development Policy
for the ERC as well as in the Privatization Policy Letter.
39.   Re-establishment of Confidence with the Private Sector. The government will examine
the enterprise inspection visits carried out by the tax services with a view to improving their
efficiency. The government will also commence a dialogue with the private sector to revise the
"Fiscal Procedures Manual" (Livre de Proce'dure Fiscales) and re-examine the emergency
modifications contained in the "Fiscal Annex" for the budget years 2000 and 2001.



Cote d'Ivoire                                                                12
13.   Expanding Access to and Improving Delivery of Basic Public Services (Education
and Health)
40.   Education. Despite years of relatively high public spending on education (more than 30
percent of total public expenditures on average), Cote d'Ivoire's performance in the sector has
been poor. Overcrowded classes and a low quality of teaching result in low completion and pass
rates. The government's 1997 National Education and Training Development Plan, 1998-2010 -
Plan national de Developpement du Secteur Education/Formation (PNDEF) - aimed at: (i)
increasing the net enrollment rate from 51 percent to 55 percent in 2000; (ii) improving
education quality at all levels; and (iii) making education and training more responsive to the
socio-economic needs of the country. The plan called for an increase in the share of education in
public expenditure from 32 percent (excluding external financing) in 1996 to 39 percent by year
2000, with about 45 percent of the education budget allocated to primary education.
41.   Implementation of the plan has been spotty. Budgetary allocations were in line with the
plan but serious internal efficiency problems considerably lowered impact on the ground. Efforts
were made by the government to respond to the need for additional teachers and textbooks but
the overall availability of textbooks and other inputs at the school level remained very low.
Results in the area of school construction and rehabilitation were also limited. Overall, sector
outcomes lagged behind expectations. Primary net enrollment rate increased only slightly from
5i percent in 1996/97 to 52 percent in 1999/2000 - higher for boys than girls and higher in urban
than rural areas. Achieving significant progress, let alone universal primary enrollment, will
require significant efforts to lower schooling costs for households and to target resources to
attract out-of-school children, i.e. the poorest and girls.
42.   The new government has embarked on the preparation of a sector-wide strategy,
encompassing all levels and all types of education (from pre-school to university and from
general education to informal literacy and to vocational training). To do so, it has initiated a
comprehensive diagnostic of the entire education sector (to be summarized in an Education
Sector Country Status Report -- Rapport d'etat sur le systeme educatif national - RESEN) which
will support the design of a new national integrated policy and strategic framework for the
education sector before the end of 2002. This policy and strategic framework will be
incorporated in the PRSP. In the interim, the government has already finalized a new medium-
term strategic framework for primary education, adult functional literacy, and out-of-school
children. Even though it is still provisional (since the outcomes of the RESEN are not yet
available), it lays out the fundamental directions for the future.
43.   The framework gives priority to rural and under-served areas, and targets women and the
rural poor. It seeks to develop basic education at low recurrent cost and to take advantage of the
decentralization process to transfer more decision making at the local levels. Its main objectives
for 2015 include: (i) increasing the national primary school gross enrollment ratio to 80 percent,
with a particular focus on rural children and girls; (ii) increasing the adult literacy rate to 70
percent for men and 50 percent for women, through the combination of expanded access to
primary education and the provision of adult literacy programs delivered by NGOs and other
local  organizations, targeting  rural  women  in  particular;  and  (iii) strengthening
professional/vocational training programs, in particular by providing alternative, community-
based training opportunities for out-of-school children aged 9-15.  The strategy of the



Economic Recovery Credit                                                      13
government in this area is built on four principles: (i) free schooling (to be implemented
gradually with a priority given to primary schools and ruralJpoor areas); (ii) improving access by
creating 1,000 new schools/year and recruiting new teachers and improving the latters' skills to
meet priority needs at all levels; (iii) the generalization of the distribution of textbooks on a lease
basis to primary and secondary schools; and (iv) the establishment of a closer relation between
schools and communities, in particular by strengthening the power and capacity of school
management committees (COGES).
44.   Under the ERP, the authorities intend to:
* maintain education's budget share to at least 3.8 percent of GDP into the medium
term;
* undertake a comprehensive diagnostic and Public Expenditure Review (PER) for the
entire sector (with an emphasis on 'credits delegues') and prepare a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF);
* decrease the cost of text books by opening up editing and supply to competition;
* lower the cost of education to poor families by providing textbooks free of charge, on
a loan basis (for all primary grades) as well as individual "school kits" (pens and
pencils, note books) to primary school children nationwide (for the four first grades);
* ensure sufficient allocations in the budget to cover basic maintenance and operating
costs of primary and secondary schools, and transferring these allocations directly
from the "Direction des Affaires Financieres" of the central Ministry of Education to
schools' committees (COGES2); ensure transparency and accountability in the latter's
use of funds through period inspections and audits (both internal and external). Only
primary schools (3000, representing 40 percent of all primary schools) will be
targeted in 2002; secondary schools will follow in 2003;
* expand at a rate of at least 4 percent p.a. and ensure the sustainability of the "school
meals program" (also supported by the World Food Program) to promote enrollment
of children (especially girls) from poor households and improve their nutritional
status and their academic performance; and
* include reproductive health in the curriculum and establishment and funding of
volunteer HIV/AIDS committees in all schools.
45.   Health. Although its GNP per capita is one of the highest in the sub-region, its health
indicators are among the lowest in West Africa. In 1996, the government launched an ambitious
National Health Development Plan (Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire - PNDS). The
Plan proposed to focus health efforts on an essential package of services to fight the most
prevalent diseases and called for targeting health services to poor regions and rural areas.
Specifically, it aimed at reducing infant mortality from 90 to 50 deaths/1000 births, extend
vaccination from 50 percent to 90 percent of the population and increase life expectancy to 60
years by 2005. To do so, the plan called for improving the access, quality and affordability of
health services by opening new health centers and maternities, the recruitment of new health
2 COGES exist in 68% of all primary schools and 100% of secondary schools



Cote d'Ivoire                                                              14
personnel and promoting cheaper generic drugs. The plan envisaged an increase in the share of
health in total public expenditures in the sector from 7.1 percent in 1996 to 10.8 percent in 2000,
while the share of primary health care would increase from 33 percent to 39 percent of total
public expenditures on health. A review of the implementation of the PNDS in early August
2001 acknowledged that although some progress had been made in improving the geographical
coverage of health facilities and in the promotion of generic drugs, implementation fell well
short of its targets. In particular, the 2000 vaccination coverage was only around 60 percent
against a Plan target of 90 percent.
46.   The I-PRSP endorses the existing policy and strategic framework embodied in the PNDS.
However, there is a clear gap between policy (which emphasizes primary health care and favors
underserved areas and vulnerable populations) on the one hand, and actual practice (which favors
hospitals and urban elite) on the other. During the 2002-2005 period, the government's strategy
would be based on the principles below: (i) aligning budgetary allocations and priority actions
more explicitly with the government's priority (addressing health needs of the poorest and
vulnerable groups); (ii) improving the access to basic health services (number of facilities;
improvements in the drug procurement and distribution system; focus on underserved regions;
and "best buys" in public health interventions); (iii) improving sector internal efficiency
(restructuring/de-concentration of the Ministry of Health); improving policy formulation,
planning, budget management and human resources management; making health services more
client-oriented; devolving of more responsibilities to community management committees
(COGES); (iv) improving equity in the health sector (intensifying efforts to target under-served
areas and the specific needs of vulnerable groups and making basic health care affordable by the
poor); and (v) ensuring the technical adequacy and proactivity of the health sector in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
47.   Accordingly, under the ERP, the authorities intend to:
*  carry out a mid term review of the National Health Strategy; update the health sector
strategy and prepare a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF);
*  implement a public expenditure review of the health sector which will also be
integrated in the PER to be carried out for other sectors;
* improve the management, allocation and effectiveness of human resources for health,
through a decentralization of recruitment and management, improved career
development, and technical training;
* align the Ministry Of Public Health's organization, resources, and management
systems with the government's decentralization policy (including updating/fine-
tuning of district and regional health plans that would align them with the MTEF and
locally set targets for each key performance indicator);
* develop capacities at each level of the health system in strategic sector management
and in management of resources to enable them to assume their new expanded roles
and responsibilities under a decentralized framework;
*  strengthen the health management information system, most notably the consolidation
of key indicators for each level of the health system, to be used as a basis to set



Economic Recovery Credit                                                     15
targets, monitor and evaluate their performance, and use to improve their efficiency
and impact;
* study ways to endow the drug purchasing agency with autonomy progressively; and
* raise the proportion of generic drugs as a proportion of the total purchased from 42
percent, with a view to attaining 75 percent by 2003.
48.   HIV/AIDS. Cote d'Ivoire's economic, social and cultural development is threatened by
the rising scourge of HIV/AIDS. National consciousness of the HIV/AIDS tragedy has risen
only slowly and the government has pursued an ineffective medical strategy. The virus has
spread rapidly and the number of AIDS patients and AIDS-related deaths have risen at alarming
rates. The intensity of the urban-rural linkages within the country and central importance of C6te
d'Ivoire in the economic and trade activities of the sub-region facilitates the penetration of the
disease in rural areas and neighboring countries. Current HIV prevalence rates are estimated at
between 12 percent and 15 percent of the adult population, and the virus has penetrated all
segments of the adult population (most AIDS patients are young adults 20 - 40 years of age).
AIDS related deaths are now the leading cause of adult mortality.
49.   Counseling for HIV/AIDS patients has been limited and the patients and their families
are often left to suffer without proper care and support. The epidemic is affecting all sectors of
social and economic life. Hospitals have become overcrowded by AIDS patients at a time when
the country lacks adequately qualified and experienced health staff, basic equipment and medical
supplies for providing minimum health to the population. The education sector is losing trained
teachers at an alarming rate (one a day), and absenteeism among HIV infected teachers and
students is having a deep negative effect on the already low productivity of the education system.
There are also more than 600,000 children orphaned by the disease, who suffer from an
economic, social and cultural deprivation of enormous magnitude.
50.   Until recently, Cote d'Ivoire had a medical-centered strategy based on three components:
(i) prevention through the distribution of condoms; (ii) ensuring the safety of the national blood
bank; and (iii) the treatment of a limited number of HIV infected and AIDS patients using
subsidized anti-retroviral drugs (ART) funded under the national solidarity fund. Recognizing
the inadequacy of such a limited response, the present government made combating HIV/AIDS
through a multi-sector approach one of its top development priorities. A new Ministry
responsible for HIV/AIDS (Ministere charge de la Lutte contre le SIDA - MLS) has been
established within the Prime Minister's Office to coordinate the national multi-sector program
and lead the national campaign against this pandemic. The MLS will coordinate the preparation
of the multi-sector response program which will be supported both by on-going operations and
the proposed IDA Credit for AIDS Prevention.
51.   Many of the following will be implemented under the ERP:
* set up and train all central ministries, regional, municipal and district health
committees and focal points as well as promising community and village-based
HIV/AIDS initiatives, preparatory to the launching of a comprehensive program
through the proposed IDA Credit for AIDS Prevention;



C6te d 'Ivoire                                                              16
*  support and expand training, care and support to PLWHA and fund their cooperative
economic income generation initiatives aimed at improving their nutrition and
welfare.  Expand multimedia information/sensitization campaigns, critical for
changing the high risk behavior that exposes individuals, especially young adults to
HIV/AIDS and STDs;
*  set up and monitor on a pilot basis voluntary counseling and testing schemes in
secondary municipal areas;
* test methodology for meeting the needs of HIV/AIDS orphans through community
support systems and prepare a program for scaling up this effort nationwide;
* test and initiate on a pilot basis HIV/AIDS training programs for sector personnel
(Agriculture, Transport, Education, Tourism, Health etc.); and
* test funding mechanisms (accounting systems and controls) for local community-
based initiatives for combating HIV/AIDS in key cities and regions to refine
management tools for the future multi-sector project.
The expected results of the IDA project would be the establishment of an effective
accounting and control system to channel resources into the multi-sector anti-AIDS program. As
such, it would link up with the reforms discussed below in the budgetary management system.
C.    Improving Public Expenditure Management
52.   The government attaches high importance to continuing improvement in the management
of its finances as the means to getting maximum benefit from the use of its resources as well as a
central element in improving its delivery of essential services to the population. The discovery
in 1998 of the inappropriate application of part of the program aid accorded by the EU to the
health sector raised awareness about serious deficiencies in the public resource management
system. A review of the framework and efficiency of public finance management in 1998/99
confirmed that the existing laws are exhaustive but that there is more to do to improve the
efficiency and transparency of their application to manage the finances. On this basis, a reform
program was prepared which deals with reforms in: (i) budget formulation, to align it with
priorities; (ii) budget execution, including procurement, for efficiency and transparency; and (iii)
internal controls and audits to increase probity. Some of the necessary measures have been
implemented with the adoption of a new budgetary nomenclature and a new accounting system;
an integrated computer system for managing expenditures (SIGFIP); and the preparation of a
new Procurement Code. The program has been under implementation since 2000. The reforms
will be reinforced under the ERP.
(i)   Budget Formulation. Under the ERP, the government intends to use regular reviews of
its public expenditure management to ensure that resources are being allocated and used in line
with its priorities. Furthermore, work will be undertaken on medium term planning and
execution of the budget, with a view to developing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF). A new unit (Cellule de Revue des Depenses Publiques) for Public Expenditure Studies
is being created for that purpose. This Unit will carry out a first comprehensive PER in 2002,



Economic Recovery Credit                                                     17
with particular attention to the social sectors. It will also develop a medium-term work program,
which it will pursue with the support of IDA, the EU and other partners.
(ii)  Financial Accountability. The program for public expenditure reform was developed in
response to the problem of misapplication of resources that was noted in 1998 during the audit of
the health sector programs supported by the EU. The program was prepared on the basis of the
results of diagnostic review of procedures conducted with the support of the EU. The program
constitute an adequate vehicle for strengthening accountability over the medium term. However,
after the first annual PER, the authorities plan to take stock of the performance in this area by
preparing a country financial assessment (2003-04).
(iii) Budget execution and public procurement. In 1999, the government introduced an
integrated public financial management system (SIGFIP) and launched a review of procurement
procedures. While the SIGFIP operates satisfactorily, it showed initially a tendency to slow
down the processing of operations. This slowed down the implementation of development
projects, including IDA-supported ones. Corrective measures have been adopted recently
making the SIGFIP more flexible, and a special commission has been set up to monitor its
performance.
53.   Under the ERP, two further modifications are planned, to help accelerate the pace of
disbursements for project implementation: (i) institution of advances for four months expenses
for each operation; and (ii) the assignment of the duties of "regisseur" on the project financial
managers and accountants, to allow for efficient use of the advances. The funds available under
the system of advances will be used for all eligible project expenditures, including operating
expenses. Where IDA projects/programs are concerned, each advance system (regie d'avance)
will receive resources from both the Special Account and the national counterpart account,
respectively. The resources will go into two separate accounts, as provided for by the Credit
Agreements. The integrity and performance of these arrangements will be continually monitored
through frequent ex-post verifications/controls. A technical audit of the expenditure processes
will be carried out at the end of 2002.
(iv)  Procurement Reform.   The reform  of procurement deals with all the principal
components of procurement: (i) an established legal framework, including the law and
institutions, with clear responsibilities in regulation, policy, audits and recourse; and distinct
from the public entities actually handling procurement; (ii) a set of modern procurement
procedures, including the directives (Code), sample bidding documents, transparent and efficient
procedures for evaluating and adjudicating bids, and efficient management of contracts; (iii)
sufficient institutional capacity, including competent personnel; (iv) the existence of an
independent control system, including regular audits and application of sanctions, a judicial
system of recourse, an environment distinguishing the role of oversight of procurement from that
of procurement itself; and (v) measures against corruption incorporated in the law on
procurement, along with the applicable sanctions.
54.   The partial results of the procurement reform  were examined in a seminar in
Yamoussoukro in May 2001. The recommendations of this seminar were to be used to update
the Code. The remaining challenges in the institutional and legal reform are: (i) the composition
and the terms of reference of the second commission of arbitrage and reconciliation; (ii) the



C6te d'Ivoire                                                                 18
choice of an independent entity for external audits; and (iii) the inclusion of provision for penal
sanctions and their application in cases of corruption in procurement.
55.   The Code will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by June 2002 for their adoption
and authorization of further work on the reform, by deepening the analysis of the institutional
framework and proposing arrangements for training and capacity building, as well as a master
plan on computerization of the system. Application of the Code will require the approval and
entry into operation of all the institutional aspects (creation of entities responsible for
procurement at central and decentralized levels, creation of new commissions). An international
consulting company has been recruited to work on these aspects. Their recommendations will be
adopted by the government via application decrees. Thereafter, the Code will be resubmitted for
final adoption by the Council of Ministers in September 2002, along with application decrees. In
2003, the Bank will collaborate with the authorities on an analytic review of the implementation
of the reforms as regards: (i) adequate staff in all the procurement entities to fulfill their new
responsibilities; (ii) capacity building and training at a sufficiently rapid pace to permit these
entities, particularly the new ones at both the central and decentralized levels to perform their
duties; and (iii) adequate supply of the modern tools needed for their work. The authorities
intend to undertake a thorough review of performance of the Code (CPAR), once enough time
has elapsed and some experience has been accumulated in implementing it.
(v)   Governance: Internal Controls, Auditing and External Oversight. Reforms will be
carried out to increase the transparency and accountability of the budget process: (a)
strengthening the Financial Control Directorate (Direction du contr6le financier) and the General
Inspection of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Inspection Generale des Finances); and (b)
restructuring the existing National Accounts Chamber (Chambre des Comptes), responsible for
the a posteriori control of all the organizations that receive funds from the State, into a fully
autonomous Cour des Comptes. Finally, the government will prepare two major pieces of
legislation to be the core of its anti-corruption program: a Fiscal Responsibility Act and an Anti-
Corruption Practices Act.
(vi)  Increasing Stakeholders' Participation.  The government has decided to use
decentralization as the main instrument to improved service delivery. Communalization will lead
to the creation of 580 communes compared with an original 370. Beneficiaries participation in
policy/program design, implementation and monitoring will be systematically sought through
inter-alia: (a) the empowerment of stakeholders in the education and the health sectors, by
transferring directly to the local (schools and health centers) management committees (COGES),
and making them accountable for funds for the operation and maintenance of basic
infrastructure; (b) making agricultural services demand-driven and (partly) financed by
beneficiaries through contractual arrangements; and (c) restructuring and deconcentrating
ministries and transferring some of their responsibilities to the newly created communes.



Economic Recovery Credit                                                      19
IX. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.    Rationale
56.   The ERP aims to create the conditions that would permit a return to strong and sustained
high growth and the development of human resources able to participate in and contribute to
such growth. It also aims to alleviate poverty amongst the poorest segment who are the rural
workers and sharecroppers in export agriculture and the near subsistence food crop farmers and
who constitute the labor force needed for growth. The proposed ERC would support these goals
by making available quick-disbursing financing to help preserve a stable financial environment
during the implementation of the ERP, and also enable the government to allocate higher levels
of resources to the priority sectors of primary education and health, working through
mechanisms that build local capacity to take responsibility for and manage these critical services.
B.    Reform Actions Taken Through June 2002
General
(i) Submission to IDA of a final Letter of Development Policy.
Creatin! the Conditions for Renewed, Broad-based Growth
(i)  Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a Statement of Privatization Policy,
satisfactory to IDA, outlining the process of reorganizing and privatizing the CAA
and the privatization strategy of the CIDT-Nouvelle;
(ii) Inauguration of a new partnership with the private sector via launching of
collaborative work on revision of the Fiscal Procedures Manual;
(iii) Launching of an audit of the activities, procedures and financial statements of
ARCC, BCC, and FDPCC up to March 2002; and
(iv) Launching of a study of the regulatory framework to ensure real competition at all
stages of the cocoa production chain ffifiere), and avoid emergence of dominant
positions; as well as to define the marketing mechanism to be put in place before
July 2002 for the 2002-03 harvest;
Expanding Access to and Improving Delivery of Basic Public Services (Health and
Education)
(v) Increasing the allocation for primary schools within the approved 2002 budget of
the Ministry of National Education by CFAF 6.8 billion (2.8 percent of the current
budget of the ministry), distributed as follows: CFAF 2.5 billion for textbooks;
CFAF 2.2 billion for school kits; CFAF 1.8 billion for COGES; and CFAF 0.3
billion for canteens;
(vi) Allocation within the approved 2002 budget of the Ministry of Health of CFAF 680
million (1.25 percent of the total) to subsidize the purchase of essential drugs by the



C6te d'Ivoire                                                                20
poorest and most vulnerable people in the health districts of Tiassale, Grand-Lahou,
Guiglo and Duekoue; and agreement with government on the principles of
managing these funds by the COGES for the benefit of the intended beneficiaries;
(vii) Publication of legal texts (decree and arrete7) reorganizing the COGES in the
education sector, enabling them to manage budgetary resources transferred to them
or directly collected by them, with a reinforced role and responsibility for parents;
and the adoption of a guiding manual of procedures;
(viii) Agreement on the list of COGES participating in the program of decentralized
management in the health and education sectors; and
Improving Public Expenditure Management
(ix) Agreement with the World Bank and the EU on a concept paper for the 2002 PER;
and
(x) Transmission to the National Assembly of the audits (Lois de Reglement) of the
1999 and 2000 budgets, including the reports by the Chambre des Comptes.
C.    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i)  Ratification of the Credit Agreement and transmission to IDA of the Legal Opinion.
D.    Amount and Tranching
57.   The amount of the proposed ERC is US$200 million equivalent. The proposed ERC
would be disbursed in three tranches, subject to both general and any specific conditions being
met. The first tranche of US$100 million would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness.
E.    Conditions of Second and Third Tranches
58.   The second and third tranches of US$60 million and US$40 million, respectively, could
be disbursed over the following twelve months, provided that: (i) there is satisfactory progress on
the implementation of the program described in the LDP; (ii) the macroeconomic framework
remains sound (as indicated by the PRGF-supported program remaining on track); and (iii) the
following specific conditions are met.
Creating Conditions for Renewed, Broad-based Growth
(i)  Adoption of a new regulatory framework for cocoa and coffee marketing based on
competition and excluding any administrative allocations or quotas, unless as
otherwise agreed with the Association; (Second Tranche)
(ii) Implementation by BCC/FRC of a competitive marketing strategy for the
2002/2003 cocoa and coffee crops and excluding any administrative allocations or
quotas, unless as otherwise agreed with the Association; (Second Tranche)



Economic Recovery Credit                                                     21
(iii) Implementation by ARCC, BCC, and FDPCC of the agreed recommendations of
the audit of the activities, procedures and financial statements; adoption by them of
levels of non-tax levies for cocoa and coffee in the 2002/2003 crop year; and
approval by them of the annual programs and budgets for the crop year 2002/2003;
(Second Tranche)
(iv) The adoption by the government of an institutional and regulatory framework to
ensure competition at all levels of the cotton chain; (Third Tranche)
(v) Privatization (bringing to point of sale) of the "CIDT-Nouvelle"; (Third Tranche)
(vi) The selection of a qualified technical partner for the CAA; and privatization (offer
for sale to willing partners) of at least 51 percent of the government's shares in the
CAA; (Third Tranche) and
(vii) Adoption and publication of the revised Fiscal Procedures Manual (Third
Tranche).
Expanding Access to and Improvin2 Delivery of Basic Public Services (Education
and Health)
(viii) The signing of agreements between the Ministries of Education and of Health, on
the one hand, and the selected education and health sector COGES, on the other; the
opening of bank accounts in appropriate institutions by the COGES; and the deposit
of at least 60 percent of the budget allocations for the activities of the COGES in
those accounts; (Second Tranche)
(ix) The opening to competition of text book publishing and editing for primary
education; and the supply to the IEPs in 43 selected school districts of their stock of
free textbooks; (Second Tranche) and
(x)  Completion of a study of the system for procuring and distributing essential drugs
for the public sector; the adoption of an action plan based on the study for
improving the procurement of essential drugs for the public sector; and provision of
evidence, satisfactory to IDA, of the procurement of drugs in line with the action
plan (Third Tranche).
Improving Public Expenditure Management
(xi) Transmission to the National Assembly of the draft new laws on Public
Procurement and on the establishment of the Cour des Comptes (Lois de
Reglement); (Second Tranche) and
(xii) Transmission to the National Assembly of the draft audit (Lois de Reglement) of the
2001 budget, including the report by the Cour/chambre des Comptes (Third
Tranche).



C6te dI'voire                                                               22
F.    Implementation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Safeguards
59.   Implementation Arrangements. An Inter-Ministerial Committee, chaired by the Prime
Minister/Minister of Economy and Finance and including the representatives of the priority
sectors, will oversee and guide the implementation of the program. The program's day-to-day
supervision will be the responsibility of a Technical Unit established within the Prime Minister's
Office/Ministry of Economy and Finance. The implementation of individual components will be
the responsibility of the relevant line ministries (Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health,
Public Works) and other agencies.
60.   Reporting and Auditing. The Technical Unit will be responsible for preparing regular
progress reports for the Inter-Ministerial Committee and IDA. IDA's support to implementation
will be provided through the Country Office, which will be strengthened in early FY03 with the
recruitment of a local economist and the posting of an internally recruited senior
macroeconomist. This support will be closely coordinated with the IMF and other donors
providing support to the government's I-PRSP. The General Financial Inspection Directorate of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance will carry out the audits of the 2002 and 2003 public
expenditure programs of the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education and Public Works. The
National Account Chamber (Chambre des Comptes) of the Supreme Court (to be replaced by an
independent Cour des Comptes), will be responsible for the a posteriori control of the
implementation of the budget and the audit of all the organizations that receives funds from the
State. IDA reserves the right to seek an audit of the Credit deposit account.
61.   Disbursements. The borrower will be the Government of the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire.
Disbursements will follow IDA's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.
Upon effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount of the first tranche in a deposit account opened
in Euro (or US Dollar) with BCEAO. Subsequent disbursements will be made through this
account. Proceeds of the Credit will not be used to finance goods or services on the standard
negative list.
62.   Environmental Aspects.  The ERC is a structural adjustment operation and the
requirements of Operational Directive (OD) 8.60 apply. It is estimated that none of its
components would have a significant negative environment impact. The government is already
implementing satisfactory road maintenance mitigation measures (under the IDA-financed
Transport Sector Program). The liberalization of the cocoa/coffee and cotton sectors, and
improved farmers access to services and technologies, will improve the financial profitability of
growing these crops and may therefore involve potential environmental risks. However, the
government has already adopted reforms that would discourage agricultural/cocoa encroachment
in natural forests and a comprehensive set of appropriate technologies - micro-spraying,
integrated pest management (IPM), soil conservation measures -- are already promoted, and
would be strengthened, through the IDA-financed National Agricultural Services Program. The
overall PRSP impact assessment system will include a specific comprehensive environment
impact assessment component. The latter will be developed within the context of the PRSP
preparation and will be fully operational before the-end of 2002.
63.   Gender Dimensions. The Poverty Assessment (1996) found important disparities in
living standards between men and women as reflected, for example, in their respective access to



Economic Recovery Credit                                                     23
health and education services. Female workers are concentrated in low productivity food
production and processing, informal trade and domestic activities. Four factors combine to
marginalize poor Ivorian women: (i) inadequate control by women over their time and labor; (ii)
limited access to productive resources; (iii) insufficient human capital accumulation; and (iv)
lack of voice in public policy decisions. Low productivity among women has limited their
economic contribution and thus diminished potential GNP. Meanwhile, UNAIDS data indicate
that HIV prevalence is almost twice as high among females aged 15-24 (9.3 percent), compared
with males of the same age (5.3 percent), reflecting marked gender and age differences in risk
and vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. There are also key gender differences in responsibilities for care
and coping, i.e., for AIDS orphans.
64.   Monitoring of Implementation and Impact Assessment.    The impact of the
implementation of the country's poverty reduction strategy will be assessed through a
comprehensive system of key human and economic development indicators specific to each of
the major policy domains. The development of such a full poverty impact monitoring system
(PIMS) has started with the preparation of the I-PRSP and it is expected that it will be fully
operational by the end of 2002. However, specific indicators have been developed to monitor
the implementation of key reforms agreed upon under the ERC. Because of the latter's short
time span, these indicators are essentially process and output indicators.
Fiduciary Safeguards
65.   The measures being implemented by the government to strengthen financial management
are considered adequate to ensure that fiduciary standards are met with regard to the use of IDA
resources provided under the ERC. The same applies to the use of the budgetary savings
expected from debt relief under the enhanced HIPC Initiative. The measures include the
following: (i) a value-for-money audit of government recurrent and capital expenditures, which
will establish compliance with existing regulations and procedures, and assess the comparative
cost of public services with the prices in the private sector; (ii) strengthened financial
management at the decentralized level; and (iii) a new procurement code which will ensure
transparency in procurement down to the decentralized level. These will be bolstered with
reinforcement of the inspection and financial control system, with a view to achieving
accountability and transparency in the use of public resources. The reinforcement will cover the
a priori and a posteriori control agencies in the Ministry of Economy and Finance as much as
the supreme audit institution, the Chamber of Accounts of the Supreme Court.
66.   Country Financial Accountability. For the last three years, the government has been
implementing a comprehensive program of improving the planning, implementation, follow-up
and control of public expenditures, with support primarily from the EU. The reforms are also
designed to directly support the decentralization and de-concentration of the government's
administration and service delivery to the local level. The reforms cover budgetary management,
public procurement, financial management, the control and sanctions system, and relations
between the central and local governments.
67.   Currently, budgetary preparation is considered satisfactory.  Data is accurate and
available in a timely fashion. To further improve resource allocation, budget formulation will be



C6te d'Ivoire                                                               24
strengthened with a link to analysis done in PERs. A new Unit, the 'Cellule de Revue de
D4penses Publiques" has been established and given responsibility for the PERs. The Unit will
bring together a core group made of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
the Ministry of Plan, and execute a medium-term work program to guide reforms. It will
undertake the first PER in 2002. Part of this work, which will extend into 2003, will cover the
establishment of a system to track poverty-related expenditures (including those to be financed
out of HIPC-derived savings), and a value-for-money audit.
68.   Budget execution is also being improved. The integrated financial management system
(SIGFIP) is being regularly adjusted to permit effective budget management including at the
decentralized level. The "Directions Administratifs et Financiers (DAF)" which do the
programming of the budget and support its implementation in each ministry, will be reinforced.
Proposals are now being reviewed in the government (with support from the IMF) to place the
DAF under the sole control of the Minister of Economy and Finance. This change would
enforce the SIGFIP system, ensuring that no commitment to spend can be undertaken outside the
system and that extra-budgetary expenditures are not permitted.
69.   The Financial Control Directorate (Contr6le Financiere) and the Budget Control Office
(Controle Budgetaire) are being reinforced with additional personnel and material means. They
will publish regular bulletins to promote transparency. The General Inspectorate of Finances
(IGF) is conducting a training program for new staff. The Chambre des Comptes received, in
January 2002, the Lois de Reglement for the years 1999 - 2000. The Chambre plans to issue its
report for these years to the Assembly by mid-2002. Following the PER planned for 2002, a
CFAA will be prepared (2003).
70.   Country Procurement Assessment. A new Public Procurement Code has been finalized
in 2002, in consultation with the Bank. Among other things, it will permit decentralization of
procurement to the local level and is designed to simplify procedures, avoid systematic
exemptions from competitive bids and introduce full transparency in the bidding and award
process. It provides for an arbitrage commission at the central and regional levels to allow for
appeals against awards as well as a consultative commission at the Ministerial level to deal with
direct procurement and eligibility of bidders. The Director of Public Procurement will be given
the material means and authority to carry out his fimctions. The new Code will enter into
implementation later in 2002. The Bank is lending assistance to prepare the basis. The
authorities plan to undertake a review once the Code has been under implementation for a while.
For this reason, a CPAR is planned tentatively for 2004.
Donor Coordination
71.   IDA continues to work closely with all of Cote d'Ivoire's development partners to
support the country's programs. The medium-term PRSP will provide the overall framework for
donor support, including IDA's and IMF's. The ERC operation is designed specifically to
complement efforts supported by the IMF under the PRGF and by other donors. The PRGF will
focus on a stabilization program, as well as on key structural measures identified in the I-PRSP
which directly affect the macroeconomic program, in particular in the energy and the financial
sectors. The reforms supported by the ERC would be coordinated with those supported by other



Economic Recovery Credit                                                      25
donors to ensure coherence, and avoid gaps and/or duplication. In the area of poverty reduction
measures, the EU is expected to be a close partner.
X.    COUNTRY OWNERSHIP, BENEFITS AND RISKS
72.   National ownership of and commitment to the ERC are high. The operation has been
prepared in close collaboration with the government and will support critical reforms/activaties
clearly identified during the highly participatory preparation of the country's I-PRSP. The ERC
would provide vital financial support necessary for restoring macroeconomic stability and
creating the conditions for accelerated growth. It would also specifically address poverty
reduction by targeting structural reforms and public expenditures in key sectors, and by actually
channeling public funds to activities directly benefiting the poor, particularly in rural areas. The
following main risks have been identified:
(i)  the national reconciliation process may stall or be reversed, which may lead to
renewed social unrest and a disruption of economic activities. The Nationai
Reconciliation Forum (October 2001) was an important test for assessing the
strength of the on-going social and political mending process. The on-going
preparation of the full PRSP also provides a national forum to discuss priorities and
possible arbitrage between conflicting objectives and interests.  By providing
support for increased access to opportunities and services to disenfranchiseE
groups, the ERC would be instrumental in diffusing the tensions that will continue
in the medium-term during the transition to sustained and broad-based growth. The
measures aimed at benefiting the poor will also reduce social distress and
discontent.
(ii) the government may lack the institutional capacity to sustain the stabilization and
structural reforms which underlie the recovery effort. This would render iargely
ineffective any additional external financial resources, including through the ERC,
and curtail any further assistance from IDA. This risk will be mitigated by ensuring
that the recovery program is fully funded, the ERC supports the analysis and
improvement of the country's public financial accountability arrangements, and on-
going operations and Economic Sector Work (ESW), in particular those funded by
IDA, and provide complementary concrete implementation support to the
government's economic recovery program.
(iii) new external shocks in the form of export price declines, loss of government
revenues and lack of external concessional financing could interrupt the recovery
and the poverty alleviation programs. The evident commitment of major donors
including the Bank to assist Cote d'Ivoire during the transition phase and thereafter
partly alleviates these risks.



C6te d'Ivoire                                                                   26
XI. RECOMMENDATION
73.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 14, 2002



Annex 1
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                    Page I of I
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project
Identification                   January 2002
ROC Meeting                      March 7, 2002
Appraisal                        March 12-21, 2002
Negotiations                      April 22, 2002
Board Presentation               June 4, 2002
Effectiveness Date               End-June, 2002
Closing Date                     December 2003
Task Team Members
Emmanuel Akpa                    Team Leader, AFTP4
J. Paul Chausse                  co Team Leader, AFTRS
Richard Westebbe                 Consultant, AFTP3
Gaston Gohou                     Consultant, AFTP4
Denise Vaillancourt               Sr. Health Specialist, AFTH2
Gerald Meyerman                  PSD Specialist, PSASP
Rachidi Radji                    Sr. Education Specialist, AFTH2
Steve Wan                        Language Program Assistant, AFTP4
C. Morin/T. Mpoy Kamulayi        Lawyer, LEGAF
Renee Desclaux                   Disbursement Officer, LOAGI
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited the Republic of Cote
d'Ivoire in March 2002 to assist the Government in the appraisal of the Economic Reform Credit.
Mission members included: Messrs./Mmes E. Akpa (Team Leader/Sector Manager); T. Ahlers (Director,
AFRVP), J. P. Chausse, R. Westebbe, G. Gohou, D. Vaillancourt, G. Meyerman, R. Radji, and S. Wan.






Annex 2
C6te dI'voire: Economic Recovery Credit                             Page 1 of 12
Unofficial Translation
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE              REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NO. 1389/MEF/CAB-l/Mbv                    Union-Discipline-Work
[seal] Minister of Economy and Finance            Abidjan, May 14, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Since 1994, the government has implemented programs of macroeconomic and structural
reform, with a view to achieving strong and balanced economic growth and establishing financial
viability over the medium term. These programs have been supported by the International
Monetary Fund with the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, initially during the period
1994-97, then during the period 1998-2001, excluding the suspension in 1999. Simultaneously
with the approval of the second agreement, Cote d'Ivoire was declared eligible for relief on its
external debt in the context of Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC), with the
completion point set for March 2001. Within the framework of these arrangements, the
government achieved significant progress in reducing macroeconomic disequilibria, liberalizing
the economy and creating the basis for sustained growth. However, from 1999 onwards, the
country became confronted with serious problems of budgetary management and governance,
which became exacerbated by an unparalleled socio-political crisis.
Confronted with these difficulties, Cote d'Ivoire could not attain the objectives of the
tree-year adjustment program supported by the PRGF approved on March 18, 1998. The public
finances remained fragile, with severe cash flow pressures illustrated by the accumulation of
internal and external payment arrears as well as by a high level of unauthorized but committed
expenditures (DENO). Private investment, which was until then the basis of growth, strongly
declined, as a result of the deterioration of the economic and the socio-political environment.
From 1999 on, per capita income fell in a context of strong population growth, social indicators
deteriorated, and poverty indicators remained at a high level, particularly in rural areas.
It is in this difficult context that the Government of the second Republic started in June
2001, rehabilitation of financial management to improve the public finances, curb problems of
governance and accelerate structural reforms. The government implemented an interim reform
program covering the period July-December 2001, which enabled it to create the necessary



Annex 2
C6te dIvoire: Economic Recovery Credit                               Page 2 of 12
conditions for the preparation of a more ambitious program supported by the PRGF. The main
macroeconomic objectives for the period 2002-04 are: (a) an average real GDP growth rate of 4
percent; (b) reduction in inflation to less than 3 percent; and (c) reduction of the external current
account deficit (including official transfers) to 1 percent of GDP by 2004.
In parallel, an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was approved and
adopted by the Board of the World Bank, permitting the choice of September 2002 as the
Decision Point for the enhanced HIPC Initiative. In fact, the government has made the fight
against poverty a priority of its development program. The principal objectives of its poverty
reduction: (a) the reduction of the poverty threshold from 33.6 percent in 1998 to 30 percent in
2005; (b) increase in the gross enrollment rate from 74 percent in 2000 to 77 percent in 2004; (c)
improve access by the population to primary health care; and (d) intensification of the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
The government's desire to fight against poverty and assure sustained growth requires the
deepening of structural reforms to be implemented in close collaboration with the World Bank
and other development partners. The government plans to rely on: (i) a significant improvement
of the quality of public expenditures in the social sectors so as to expand access to public
services and improve their quality; (ii) the finalization of reforms of the agricultural crop chains;
(iii) pursuit of the withdrawal of the State from the productive and commercial sector; (iv)
improvement of the regulatory and operational environment of enterprises; (v) improvement of
public expenditure management; and (vi) decentralization.
The present Letter of Development Policy describes the strategies, actions and priority
actions for which the government would like to receive the support of the World Bank in the
context of the implementation of its program of growth and poverty reduction. The program
consists of three components:
(i)  creation of strong, broad-based growth;
(ii) improvement of access by the population to basic public services: education and health;
and
(iii) improvement of public finance management.
We reaffirm our commitment to reinforce and increase the means necessary to the fight
against poverty, and to take all measures which will enable us to arrive at the completion point of
the HIPC.
We are convinced that the policies outlined in our program will make it possible to carry
out these objectives and to this end, we pledge to take all the supplementary measures which
would be necessary.
Sincerely yours,
The Minister,
Bohoun Bouabre



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                             Page 3 of 12
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Since 1994, the government has implemented programs of macroeconomic and structural
reform, with a view to achieving strong and balanced economic growth and establishing financial
viability over the medium term. These programs have been supported by -the International
Monetary Fund with the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, initially during the period
1994-97, then during the period 1998-2001, excluding the suspension in 1999. Simultaneously
with the approval of the second agreement, Cote d'Ivoire was declared eligible for relief on its
external debt in the context of Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC), with the
completion point set for March 2001. Within the framework of these arrangements, the
government achieved significant progress in reducing macroeconomic disequilibria, liberalizing
the economy and creating the basis for sustained growth. However, from 1999 onwards, the
country became confronted with serious problems of budgetary management and governance,
which became exacerbated by an unparalleled socio-political crisis.
2.    Confronted with these difficulties, Cote d'Ivoire could not attain the objectives of the
tree-year adjustment program supported by the PRGF approved on March 18, 1998. The public
finances remained fragile, with severe cash flow pressures illustrated by the accumulation of
internal and external payment arrears as well as by a high level of unauthorized but committed
expenditures (DENO). Private investment, which was until then the basis of growth, strongly
declined, as a result of the deterioration of the economic and the socio-political environment.
From 1999 on, per capita income fell in a context of strong population growth, social indicators
deteriorated, and poverty indicators remained at a high level, particularly in rural areas.
3.    It is in this difficult context that the Government of the second Republic started in June
2001, rehabilitation of financial management to improve the public finances, curb problems of
governance and accelerate structural reforms. The government implemented an interim reform
program covering the period July-December 2001, which enabled it to create the necessary
conditions for the preparation of a more ambitious program supported by the PRGF. The main
macroeconomic objectives for the period 2002-04 are: (a) an average real GDP growth rate of 4
percent; (b) reduction in inflation to less than 3 percent; and (c) reduction of the external current
account deficit (including official transfers) to 1 percent of GDP by 2004.
4.    In parallel, an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was approved and
adopted by the Board of the World Bank, permitting the choice of September 2002 as the
Decision Point for the enhanced HIPC Initiative. In fact, the government has made the fight
against poverty a priority of its development program. The principal objectives of its poverty
reduction: (a) the reduction of the poverty threshold from 33.6 percent in 1998 to 30 percent in
2005; (b) increase in the gross enrollment rate from 74 percent in 2000 to 77 percent in 2004; (c)
improve access by the population to primary health care; and (d) intensification of the fight
against HIV/AIDS.



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire. Economic Recovery Credit                              Page 4 of 12
5.    The government's desire to fight against poverty and assure sustained growth requires the
deepening of structural reforms to be implemented in close collaboration with the World Bank
and other development partners. The government plans to rely on: (i) a significant improvement
of the quality of public expenditures in the social sectors so as to expand access to public
services and improve their quality; (ii) the finalization of reforms of the agricultural crop chains;
(iii) pursuit of the withdrawal of the State from the productive and commercial sector; (iv)
improvement of the regulatory and operational environment of enterprises; (v) improvement of
public expenditure management; and (vi) decentralization.
6.    The present Letter of Development Policy describes the strategies, actions and priority
actions for which the government would like to receive the support of the World Bank in the
context of the implementation of its program of growth and poverty reduction. The program
consists of three components:
(i)  creation of strong, broad-based growth;
(ii) improvement of access by the population to basic public services: education and health;
and
(iii) improvement of public finance management.
A. Strong and Broad-based Growth
7.    The economic reform program undertaken by the government is expected to permit the
Ivorian economy to return to a path of real growth averaging 4 percent over the period 2002-04.
8.    This growth will be based on the following essential levers: (i) improvement of the public
finances and the search for enhanced competitiveness of the economy; (ii) promotion and
development of the private sector and the development of sectors like agriculture, infrastructure,
industry and tourism; (iii) modernization and professionalization of agriculture, notably food
crop agriculture and non-traditional crops; (iv) upgrading of the distribution channels for
products and the development of their processing.
9.    This component of development policy will emphasize competitiveness and growth of
the agriculture sector and development of the private sector.
a. Competitiveness and Growth of the Agriculture Sector
10.   In agriculture, the government's policy will be anchored on: (i) promotion of competition
and efficiency in the chain of the major crops, so as to increase the share of value added accruing
to producers; (ii) improvement of access by producers to markets, especially export markets; (iii)
increase in agricultural productivity; and (iv) diversification and derivation of higher value from
products, especially by their transformation into higher value-added products.
11.   The government will consolidate the liberalization of the coffee/cocoa chain. A new
institutional and regulatory framework has been instituted consisting of: (i) the Autorite de
Regulation du Cafe et du Cacao (ARCC), which is in charge of implementing the legal and
regulatory framework of the sector in a way that guarantees effective competition at all levels;



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                              Page 5 of 12
(ii) the Bourse du Cafe et du Cacao (BCC), in charge of coordinating the marketing of coffee and
cocoa and implementing, along with the FRC, a mechanism for better management of market
risk; (iii) the Fonds de Regulation et de Contr6le (FRC), which has the responsibility for
managing the financial management of the marketing operations; and (iv) the Fonds de
DIveloppement de la Production de Cafe et de Cacao (FDPCC), responsible for the financing of
the sector's development programs that are conceived by the producers themselves, using the
levies on the crops, as freely agreed by them.
12.   To finalize the operationalization of the institutional framework, the government will
ensure:
* the maintenance of effective competition at all levels of the chain and the promotion of
national exporting small- and medium-scale enterprises, with particular attention to
avoiding the emergence of dominant positions;
* the representativity/legitimity of the governing organs of the new institutions as well as
the transparency and efficiency of their activities;
* the efficiency of the mechanism for marketing and management of market risk as well
as its compatibility with true competition among operators in the crop chain;
* the compatibility of the nature and level of direct taxes and other levies on the crop
chain with the goal of economic growth and poverty reduction in the rural areas.
13.   While waiting to define the definitive regulatory framework for the entire crop chain, the
ARCC instituted for the 2001-02 crop year a transitory system based on ceilings on purchases.
The government has launched a study of the framework to put in place that would provide a
satisfactory response to all the concerns in this area. This framework will be put in place before
the marketing of the output of the 2000-03 crop year. It will exclude the use of administrative
allocations or quotas, except as may be agreed with IDA.
14.   In the context of its strategy of raising the value added created and distributed in the
sector, the government will launch a detailed review of other activities in the crop chain:
transformation, field purchase, bagging, transit and phytosanitary treatment. In particular, the
government will launch: (a) a study of the value added created by local transformation as a basis
for the development of this activity; and (ii) a study of the strategy to promote quality, including
methods of conditioning of the product for exportation.
15.   To raise representativity and efficiency of the new institutions, the government will see to
it that: (i) the operating modality of the governing organs of the BCC and the FRC permit the
various actors of the industry group to participate in decision making; and (ii) the elections are
organized with transparency before 30 September 2002, towards the renewal of the mandate of
the producer's representatives on the Board of the BCC. As to the ARCC, BCC and FRC, the
government will ensure that they: (i) acquire clear internal operational policies and procedures
which are known to all; (ii) prepare programs of activities and annual operating budgets to be
approved by their governing bodies; and (iii) acquire satisfactory management systems. To this
end, an audit will be conducted on the activities of the management of the ARCC, BCC and
FPDCC through 31 March 2002.



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                             Page 6 of 12
16.   In the 2001-02 crop year, the marketing of cocoa took place within a transitory system
where previously fixed prices were replaced by freely determined prices above a minimum based
on international prices. This system has worked satisfactorily and permitted producers to benefit
from the recent strong increase in the international market price for cocoa.
17.   The BCC will now decide a new marketing system for the 2002-03 crop year. This cocoa
marketing mechanism will be based on the recommendations of a study being undertaken with
the assistance of the World Bank, and will be introduced before July 2002. The government will
ensure that the new system: (i) receives the adherence of all the actors in the chain; (ii)
eliminates all direct intervention by the State and all direct or implicit financial involvement in
the marketing; (iii) allows the pass-through of the international market price to producers; and
(iv) eliminates all use of a system of administrative allocation or quotas, except those justified by
the study.
18.   With the fiscal levies maintained within the limit of 20 percent, the government will
ensure that the total of taxes and other levies do not exceed 30 percent of the c.i.f. price.
19.   As to the other levies, the government will ensure that their use will be on the basis of
clearly defined activities: (i) the levies of the ARCC, the BCC, the FRC, and the FDPCC will be
justified on the basis of work programs and annual budgets approved by their governing bodies;
and (ii) the rules for managing the prudential reserve of the BCC/FRC will be clearly defined.
The government's goal is to optimize the efficiency of the tax-cum-incentive system on the
development of the crop. To this end, the government will undertake a general review of the
current system before the end of the year 2002 with a view to identifying scope for reducing their
levels. New levels of the non-tax levies will be adopted for the 2002/03 crop year, as will the
annual programs and budgets of the ARCC, BCC, and FDPCC.
20.   As to the cotton sector, the government is determined to complete the liberalization of the
chain. To this end, it organized with the industry group (interprofession) in January 2002, a
national seminar bringing together all the actors in the chain. The seminar recommended a
program of measures which the government intends to implement with a view to: (i) complete
the privatization of the CIDT at the end of 2002; and (ii) put in place before end-2002, an
institutional framework guaranteeing fair competition at all stages of the chain.
b. Private Sector Development
21.   The crisis which has hit Cote d'Ivoire since 2000 has created an unfavorable environment
for private investment, national as well as international. The renewal of strong economic growth
depends on the dialogue between the government, business people and workers.  The
government's strategy for the development of the private sector will be anchored on: (i) pursuit
of the withdrawal of the State from productive goods, and of the legal, judicial and regulatory
environment for businesses and productive sectors; (iii) improvement in access to markets and
services; (iv) invigoration of the financial sector; and (v) reduction in factor costs. Specifically,
the government will undertake the following priority measures:
reinvigorate the privatization process, with a view to promoting private sector growth as
source of employment creation and income generation. The government will adopt a



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                              Page 7 of 12
Declaration of Privatization Policy which will state its vision and the institutional
framework in which the privatizations will be carried out;
*  finalize the restructuring plan of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) by end-
June 2002 at the latest. This plan will contain, among other things, the plan for
reimbursing the debt of the government to the CAA, and the approach to restructuring of
the CAA so as to reduce the State's share progressively to a maximum of 20 percent by
the end of the year 2003 at the latest. This process will be confirmed by the government
in its Declaration of Privatization Policy;
* reinforce the framework for consultation between the public and private sectors by
intensifying interaction and developing collaborative approaches to problem solving as
the basis for creating durable mutual confidence. Along the same lines, the government
will review the assessments conducted by its various tax services on private enterprises,
with a view to improving their coordination and efficiency. To this end, the government
has launched collaborative work on the revision of the Fiscal Procedures Manual. The
government will adopt and diffuse widely the contents of the revised manual by
September 2003.
B. Improving Access by the Population to Basic Social Services: Education and Health
a. Education
22.   During the period 2002-05, the government's objectives are to: (i) raise the gross school
enrollment rate from 74 percent to 80 percent; (ii) assure access to the school system for all, in
particular girls and children in rural areas; (iii) improve the quality and relevance of teaching;
(iv) reinforce the structures for vocational training, especially for the youth; and (v) pursue the
reduction of illiteracy.
23.   The strategy of the government for attaining these objectives rely on:
(i)  progressive generalization of fee-free education, from kindergarten through the first three
years of primary school, with a particular emphasis on disadvantaged areas;
(ii) increase in class space available by the construction of 800 classes a year, the elimination
of the teacher deficit at all levels and the reinforcement of their abilities through in-
service training;
(iii) rehabilitation of technical and vocational training; and
(iv) reinforcement of literacy programs.
24.   In line with this, the government will implement the following measures:
*   maintenance of the share of the education sector in public expenditures (excluding
external financing) at at least 3.8 percent of GDP, and that of primary education at 50
percent of the sector's allocation;
*    preparation of a public expenditure framework (PER) for this sector (see para. 29);
*   revision of the texts (decrees and application arr&es) relating to the organization and
operation of the COGES, specifying the role to be devolved on to parents' associations in
the management of the schools;



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                            Page 8 of 12
*   Increase the allocation to primary education within the education budget of 2002 by
CFAF 6.8 billion, of which CFAF 1.8 billion for the COGES; at least 60 percent of the
amount allocated to the COGES will be deposited in their bank account by September
2002;
*   total opening to competition of the market for the publication of textbooks at primary and
pre-primary levels for the 2003-04 school year. For the 2002-03 school year, a transitory
procedure which takes account of legal and time constraints, will be agreed with the
World Bank.
*   reduction in the cost of schooling at the primary school level, by making textbooks free
through a system of loaning out books, distributing "school kits" (at CP1 and CP2), and
extension of the program of school canteens, with priority given as from the 2002-03
school year to the 43 most disadvantaged districts whose IEPs will receive their stocks of
free textbooks by September 2002;
*   introduction of nutrition and reproductive health into the school programs and financing
committees for the fight against AIDS in all the schools.
25.   The government will also implement the reforms necessary for improving the
management and efficiency of the sector, and reinforce the State-private sector-civil society
partnership as well as the role of the COGES in the management of school infrastructures. The
government has undertaken an in-depth review of the Programme National pour le
Developpement de l'Education et la Formation (PNDEF) to make it coherent with this strategy.
A report on the state of the national educational system (RESEN) will be finalized before end-
2002. The conclusions of this report will serve both to update the PNDEF and finalize the PRSP.
b. Health
26.   The principal objectives of the government for the period 2002-05 are to reduce mortality
and morbidity linked with the major health problems (in particular maternal and infant mortality)
by 15 percent by 2015 and to reinvigorate family planning. For this, the government intends to
implement the following strategy: (i) improve the coverage and quality of health services,
especially for vulnerable and rural areas; (ii) raise the vaccination rate to 80 percent by 2005; (iii)
reduce the cost of health care to the population by the use of generic drugs and establishment of
greater health insurance; (iv) raise the efficiency of he health system by restructuring the
Ministry of Health, improvement in the management of human and financial resources, and
reinforcement of the partnership with the private sector and civil society; and (v) raise the
efficiency of the actions fighting against AIDS and the proactivity of those involved in the fight
against this pandemic. The strategy will be implemented along the following lines:
*   ensure coherence between the strategy and public expenditures allotted to it. To do so,
the government will undertake PER in the sector (see para. 29);
*   improve the availability and accessibility to the population of generic drugs, by the
increase in the rate of their use through: (i) promotion of the utilization of generic drugs
by sensitization campaigns, sensitizing training of doctors, nurses and pharmacists; (ii)
detailed analysis of the possibilities among the products currently bought by the
Pharmacie de la Sante Publique (PSP), to increase the proportion of generic medicines,
and the sale by the PSP to private vendors; (iii) reinforcement of the quality control



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                             Page 9 of 12
system for generic drugs; and (iv) improvement in the efficiency of the purchase system
of financing and distribution of drugs meant for the public sector, to ensure pertinence in
the choice of drugs, reduce their cost and avoid shortages. To this end, a study on
procurement and distribution will be launched to aid the preparation of an action plan to
be agreed with development partners. Future orders will be in line with the agreed action
plan;
*   improvement in the quality of basic health services as well as their placement close to the
population through a new partnership between the health institutions and the
communities in the context of decentralization. A pilot performance-based system will
be tested in four districts in the context of the Programme de D6veloppement des
Services de Sante Integres (PDSSI) in order to prepare the definition and implementation
of the new role and responsibility as well as the operational relations between (i) the
Conseils Generaux and the health districts and (ii) the COGES and local health centers.
*   raise the rate of utilization of health services, especially: (i) by reducing the cost of
essential drugs; and (ii) by placing health centers close to the poorest and most vulnerable
segments of the population. To start this initiative, the price of drugs will be subsidized,
thanks to a budgetary re-allocation of CFAF 680 million to the health centers in four
districts of the pilot areas of the PDSSI (Tiassale, Grand-Latou, Guiglo, and Duekoue).
For these four health districts:
o  the funds will be managed through a system of advances established within the
PDSSI framework; and with the involvement of the concerned COGES;
o  for higher efficiency, the managers of COGES will be trained in community and
financial management;
o  a procedural manual will be prepared, stating the modalities of control.
C. Improvine Public Expenditure Manazement
27.   The budgetary procedure starts with the macroeconomic framework. This framework,
which proposes the total amount of the budget for the year in prospect, is reviewed by the
Council of Ministers. After the adoption of the framework, a letter on it is sent to different
ministries. This letter indicates the envelops of operational and investment expenditure allocated
to each ministry. With the transmission of the budget proposals by ministry, the budget
conferences are organized, leading to the adoption of the budget law by the Council of Ministers
for the year in prospect. The draft law is transmitted to the National Assembly, together with the
conformity certificate on the next budget under execution. The drafts of the budget law and the
Lois de Reglement are discussed and adopted by the National Assembly. The debates in plenary
are retransmitted by the National Television and the media. The budget law is then voted and
promulgated in the government gazette (Journal Officiel) and the budgetary documents are
distributed to the entities in the Administration, to operators in the economy (economic agents)
and to the labor unions.
28.   The government considers improvement in public expenditure management a central
element on its strategy of improved service delivery. This improvement will cover the
programming-budgeting, accountability in public resource use, execution of public expenditure



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                            Page 10 of 12
programs, procurement, and the improvement of internal and external controls in the context of
good governance.
29.   In programming and budgeting, the government intends to use PERs and the preparation
of an MTEF to ensure better coherence between its poverty reduction priorities and budgetary
allocations. To do so, the government has created a Cellule de Revue des Depenses Publiques
(CRDP) in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The work program of the CRDP in 2002 will
focus on review of expenditures in 2001, with particular attention to the education and health
sectors. A Concept Note has been prepared for this purpose. The Unit will then define a
medium-term program which it will follow with the support of the World Bank, the European
Union and other development partners.
30.   In 1999, the Government introduced a System Integre de Gestion des Finances Publiques
(SIGFIP) and launched a review of the Procurement Code. While it functioned well generally,
the SIGFIP tended in its initial form to be excessively centralized and limiting, especially with
regard to the execution of programs involving decentralization. Corrective measures were
recently introduced to make the SIGFIP more flexible and compatible with the policy of
deconcentration and decentralization of the State, and the Government has established a special
commission for monitoring the efficiency of the system. To improve the utilization of financial
resources and raise the disbursement of extemal financing, a modification will be made to the
SIGFIP to allow the use of a system of advances to permit more rapid implementation of
projects. To ensure that the modification is managed properly, measures will be taken regarding
more frequent ex-post controls/assessments. In addition, a technical audit of the expenditure
chain will be carried out before end-2002 and a complete review of the reliability of the public
resource management system (CFAA) will be carried out in 2003 in collaboration with
development partners.
31.   Regarding public procurement, the reform is based on the principal components: (i) an
established legal framework for procurement; (ii) a set of transparent modem procurement
procedures; (iii) sufficient institutional capacity; (iv) the existence of a system of independent
controls; and (v) anti-corruption measures.
32.   The partial results of the procurement system reform were examined in a seminar
organized during 10-11 May, 2001 in Yamoussoukro. All recommendations of a regulatory and
legal nature aimed at promoting and reinforcing transparency, equity, efficiency and the
responsibilization of various actors will be incorporated in a revised version of the draft New
Code.
33.   The remaining challenges in the institutional and legal reform  domain are: (a)
composition and preparation of terms of reference for the Arbitrage and Conciliation
Commission, in order to ensure that there is no risk of conflict of interest and that the private
sector and civil society see it as an efficient mechanism for protecting the rights of all; (ii) the
choice of an independent entity for conducting efficient external audits; and (iii) the inclusion
and application of penal sanctions in the Code for fraudulent practices and corruption during
procurement.



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                             Page 11 of 12
34.   The draft Code will be presented to the Council of Ministers at end-June 2002 for
adoption and authorization of the pursuit of the reforms, which will deepen the analysis of the
institutional arrangement and propose an operational structure for training and capacity building,
as well as a master plan on computerization of the system. An international firm has been
recruited by the Government to finalize the institutional aspects, and their recommendations will
be examined for adoption. The final draft Code will be adopted by the Government latest in
September 2002 and will be transmitted to the National Assembly for adoption.
35.   In 2003, the government will launch an analytical review of the system, in collaboration
with the World Bank to evaluate the implementation of the reform. It will cover: (i) the posting
of adequate staff in all the entities in charge of procurement at the central as well as
decentralized levels; )ii) capacity building and training to allow these entities to face up to their
new responsibilities; and (iii) the provision of modern tools to these entities.
36.   In the framework of good governance, measures have been taken to reinforce probity in
public expenditure management by improving internal and external controls: (i) reinforcement of
the Direction General du Budget du Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, the Direction du
Contr6le Budgetaire; and (ii) restructuring of the current Chambre des Comptes de la Cour
Supreme, which is in charge of the control of all the services which receive public funds, into a
Cour des Comptes Autonome. It will have the supreme authority of public finance control, and
its jurisdiction will extend not only to public accountants but those who commit funds as well,
including locally elected officials; and (iii) reinforcement of the Inspection Generale des
Finances and implementation of technical and financial audits in other ministries (health,
education, infrastructure).
37.   The government will submit prior to September 2002, the draft Lois des Reglements
1999 and 2000 including the report by the Chambre des Comptes to the National Assembly. It
will submit to the National Assembly, latest by December 2002, the draft Lois des Reglements
2001 along with the report of the Chambre des Comptes. A draft law on the creation of an
autonomous Cour des Comptes will be submitted to the National Assembly for adoption.
38.   In order to keep the general public informed, the government will ensure wide
dissemination of the measures and economic results through the media. The coverage of
parliamentary debates and the publication of informative articles in the written press will be
systematized.
39.   Decentralization and participation by the population are at the center of the strategy for
the fight against poverty. This policy will permit the operation of 56 departments and 2 districts
and raise the number of communes from the present 370 to 580 with three objectives: (i) put the
administration close to the people; (ii) reinforce popular participation in the management of
public affairs; and (iii) improve efficiency of the central administration. A national seminar
(December 2001) has permitted the definition of the division of the areas of competence between
the central administration, its deconcentrated organs and local government, in line with the
principle of subsidiarity. A draft law on the transfer of competences is under preparation.
During the period 2002-2005, the Government intends to launch pilot operations that would



Annex 2
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                            Page 12 of 12
permit  the  testing  of  the  practical  implementation  of  the  principles  of
deconcentration/decentralization in the health and education sectors.
40.   The Ministry of Health has initiated the preparation of a plan aimed at restructuring/
decentralizing its services; improving its programming capacities and implementation at all
levels, and introducing personnel management performance-based mechanisms to ensure that its
services respond well to the needs of beneficiaries. It also aims at defining and implementing a
monitoring evaluation system on the efficiency of the national health system. This plan will be
finalized before end-2002, and then be implemented from 2003 onwards, initially as a pilot,
before being extended to other ministries.
41.   To raise the responsibilization of communities/beneficiaries in the definition of policies
and the management of basic services, a pilot program has been prepared in the education and
health structures at the local level. This responsibilization will rely on the COGES which will be
given budgetary resources directly for managing services and maintaining facilities. The
government has already launched the preparation of accompanying measures which are
indispensable for operationalizing the program: (i) revision of the statutes of the COGES; (ii) the
establishment of a protocol-agreement of partnership between the State and the COGES; and (iii)
the definition of a mechanism for budgetary transfers and the institution of a monitoring and
audit system for the operations of the COGES. At the end of the first year of operation of the
selected COGES in the health and education sectors, an evaluation will be carried out.
D. Institutional Arrangements for Program Management
42.   In order to manage the government's economic and financial program efficiently, a
Steering Committee has been put in place. It is presided by the Prime Minister and includes the
Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of the Civil Service. The Steering
Committee has a Technical Secretariat which has on-going responsibility for the program
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the reforms, measures and actions adopted by
the government and agreed with the development partners.
43.   In the framework of the Economic Recovery Program, the Steering Committee will
oversee the appropriate management and implementation of the measures decided.  An
implementation report will be prepared for each tranche. The impact of these measures will be
monitored with the aid of indicators which will be defined as part of the monitoring-evaluation
arrangements to be put in place with the PRSP.



MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE                   REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
ET DES FINANCES
4 w>b
NO     1 3 8 9   /MEF/CAB-1/Mbv
-4
Monsieur James WOLFENSOHN
PrEsident de b Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON
Monsieur le President,
Depuls 1994, le Gouvemernment a mis en ceuvre des programmes de reformes
macro6conomlques et structurelles destinEes A rEallser une crolssance economique fbrte
et Oqulllbrfe, et A retabllr la vIabilltE flnancl6re A moyen terne. Ces programmes ont
bEn6f1cI de I'appui du Fonds Montalre Internadonal dans le cadre de la Facilitt de
Reduction pour la Pauvretd et la Crolssance (FRPC), d'abord au cours de la pdriode
19941997, puls pendant la pErlode 1998-2001 avant 1a suspension Intervenue en
1999. Conjolnternent a l'approbatbon du second accord au titre de la FRPC, la C6te
d'Ivolre a etW dclardc-41gibb-au btn6ftce de l'allIpment do s3 dette extErl.ure dans la
cadre de l'Initlatlve en raveur des Pays Pauvres Tres Endettks (PPTE) avec le point
d'achtvcmcnt fixb  au mob de mars 2001. Dans le cadre de co       accords, Is
Gouvernement a reallse des progr*s slgnlflcatlfs en matiere de reduction des
d6sequilibres macroEconomlques, de llbEralisatlon de l'economie et de creation des
bases d'une croissance durable. Toutefols, a partir de 1999, le pays a ete confronte a
de graves problemes de gestlon budgEtaire et de gouvernance qul ont ete exacerbes par
une crise soclo-polltique sans precedent
Confrontee A c;;s difficultds, la Cte -d'lvolre n'a-pa  pu r4l0sor lot objectifk du
programme triennal d'alustement appuye par la FRPC approuve le 18 mars 1998. Les
finances publiques sont restees fagiles, avec de graves tensions de tresorerle lllustrees
par I'accumulatlon des arrleres de palements tnterieurs et extErleurs ainsi que par un
niveau elevE de depenses engages et non ordonnancees (DENO). Les lnvestissements
prives, jusque 13 porteurs de la croissance, ont fortement bakse, suite a la degradation
de l'environnement economique et soclo - polkique. De meme, le revenu par habitant a
fl6chi A parilr de 1999 dans un contexte de fort taux demographlque, les Indicateurs
soclaux se sont degradEs et I'Incidence de la pauvrete, particulirement dans le.s noxfl
rurales, est restee b un niveau eleve.



C'est dans cc contexte diMcile que le gouvernement de la deuxleme Rdpubllque a
amorce en juin 2001, un assainissement de la gesdon flnancldre de I'ttat pour ameliorer
[es finances publiques, remddler aux probitmes de gouuernance et41rc41&u'.res afannpL
structurelles. Aussi, le gouvernement a-t-Il mis en ceuvre un programme Interlmalre de
r6formes couvrant la periode julllet-decembre 2001, qui lul a permis de creer les
conditions n6cessaires A I'elaboratlon d'un programme plus ambideux qul b4n6flcle de
Vappul de la FacilIte pour la Reductlon de la Pauvrete et pour la Crotssance (FRPC) qul
a ete approuve le 27 mars 2002 par le Consell d'Administration du FMI. Les
principaux objectifs macroeconomlques pour la piriode 2002-04 retenus darns ce
programme, sont: (a) un taux de croissance reel du PIB superteur A 4% en mayenne
sur la perlode; (b) une reduction de r'innlatlon b moins de 3% ; et (c) une r4ductlon du
deficit du compte courant exthrleur (y comprk les transferts officiels) A 1% du PIB 3
B'horizon 2004.
Parallelement, un Document IntErlmalre de Strat6gie de la Reduction de la Pauvrete
(DSRP-I) a WtF 4labore par le Gouvernement et approuvE par le Consell
d'Administratlon de la Banque Mondlale permettant de fixer a septembre 2002 le point
de dEcilson pour l'Bnttiative PPTE renforc6e. En effet, le Gouvernement a fait de la lutte
contra 12 pativretr iine prinrtiw dft mn nroiramme de ddveloooemenL Les orinc(Daux
objecdtf de sa sEratfgBe de r4duction de la pauvret# sont: (a) la reduction du seull de
pauvrete de 33,6%  en 1998 A 30% en 2005; (b) I'accroissement du taux brut de
scolarbatton de 74% en 2000 A 77%h en 2004; (c) amilioration de B'accessiblkt des
populations aux soins de santE primralre et I1ntenslflcation de la hutte contre le
VIH/SIDA.
La volonit du Gouvernoment de lutter contre ta pauvreO et dXmucec imtnecrnumsn
soutenue requitewl'dppruosndimmem des refornmes structureBles-qui scront mises en
ceuvre en Etrolte collaboratlon avec la Banque Mondiale et d'autres partenalres au
d6veloppement. Le Gouvernement entend s'appuyer prindcpalement sur: (I) une
amelioration signiflcatlve de la qualit des depenses publiques dans les secteurs soclaux
afln c'%larvir l'acces aux services oublics et d'en accroltre Blefficacite; (II) B'achdvement
des reformes des fllleres agricoles; (ill) la poursulte du desengagement de  'EaT du
secteur productif et commercial; (Iv) I'am6lioratlon de I'environnement reglementaire
et opEratlonnel des entreprises; (v) I'amelloratlon de la gestlon des depenses publiques;
et (vi) la dEcentralisation.
La presente leure de politique de d6veloppement a pour oblet de decrire les strategles,
les actions et les mesures prioritaires que le Gouvernement souhaite voir appuyer par la
Banque Mondiale dans le cadre de la mIse en oeuvre de son programme de crossance
Economique et de reduction de la pauvrewE. Celle-cl s'arlfcule autour de trois volets:
* Ba realksationi d'une croisance forte et partagee;
* I'amElloratlon de l'acces des populations aux services sociaux de base: ducation et
sante;
* I'amelioration de la gesdton des depenses publiques.



Nous reaffirmons notre volontc de renforcer et d'accroltre les moyens nEcessalres A la
lutte contre la pauvretk, et de prendre toutes les mesures qui nous permettront de
parvenlr au point d'achevement dans le cadre de l'initladve en raveur des Pays Pauvres
Tr&s Endett.s (PPTE).
Nous sommes convaincus     tiue Iks politbues exposees dans notre  Programme
permettront de rtallser ces obiecUfs, et nous nous engageons a prendre toutes les
mesures supplEmentaires qui pourralent s'averer n6cessalres A cet effet.
le vous prle d'agreer, Monsleur le Pr6sldent, I'expression de ma haute consideration.



LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Depuis 1994, le Gouvemement a mis en ceuvre des programmes de reformes
macroeconomiques et structurelles destinees A realiser une croissance economique forte et
equilibree, et A retablir la viabilite financiere A moyen terme. Ces programmes ont beneficie de
I'appui du Fonds Monetaire International dans le cadre de la Facilite de Reduction pour la
Pauvrete et la Croissance (FRPC), d'abord au cours de la periode 1994-1997, puis pendant la
periode 1998-2001 avant la suspension intervenue en 1999. Conjointement A I'approbation du
second accord au titre de la FRPC, la C6te d'Ivoire a e  declaree 6ligible au benefice de
l'allegement de sa dette exterieure dans le cadre de l'Initiative en faveur des Pays Pauvres Tres
Endettes (PPTE) avec le point d'achevement fixe au mois de mars 2001. Dans le cadre de ces
accords, le Gouvernement a realise des progres significatifs en matiere de reduction des
desequilibres macroeconomiques, de liberalisation de l'economie et de creation des bases d'une
croissance durable. Toutefois, A partir de 1999, le pays a ete confronte A de graves problemes de
gestion budgetaire et de gouvernance qui ont ete exacerbes par une crise socio-politique sans
precedent.
2.    Confrontee A ces difficultes, la CMte d'Ivoire n'a pas pu realiser les objectifs du
programme triennal d'ajustement appuye par la FRPC approuve le 18 mars 1998. Les finances
publiques sont restees fragiles, avec de graves tensions de tresorerie illustrees par l'accumulation
des arrieres de paiements interieurs et ext6rieurs ainsi que par un niveau eleve de depenses
engagees et non ordonnancees (DENO). Les investissements prives, jusque lA porteurs de la
croissance, ont fortement baisse, suite A la degradation de 1'environnement economique et socio -
politique. De meme, le revenu par habitant a flechi A partir de 1999 dans un contexte de fort taux
demographique, les indicateurs sociaux se sont degrades et l'incidence de la pauvrete,
particulierement dans les zones rurales, est restee A un niveau eleve.
3.    C'est dans ce contexte difficile que le gouvernement de la deuxieme Republique a
amorce en juin 2001, un assainissement de la gestion financiere de I'Etat pour ameliorer les
finances publiques, remedier aux problemes de gouvernance et accelerer les reformes
structurelles. Aussi, le gouvernement a-t-il mis en oeuvre un programme interimaire de reformes
couvrant la periode juillet-decembre 2001, qui lui a permis de creer les conditions necessaires A
I' eaboration d'un programme plus ambitieux qui beneficie de I'appui de la Facilite pour la
Reduction de la Pauvrete et pour la Croissance (FRPC) qui a ete approuv6 le 27 mars 2002 par le
Conseil d'Administration du FMI. Les principaux objectifs macroeconomiques pour la periode
2002-04 retenus dans ce programme, sont: (a) un taux de croissance reel du PIB superieur A 4%
en moyenne sur la periode ; (b) une reduction de l'inflation A moins de 3% ; et (c) une reduction
du deficit du compte courant exterieur (y compris les transferts officiels) A 1% du PIB A l'horizon
2004.
4.    Parallelement, un Document Interimaire de Strategie de la Reduction de la Pauvrete
(DSRP-I) a ete elabore par le Gouvernement et approuv6 par le Conseil d'Administration de la
Banque Mondiale permettant de fixer A septembre 2002 le point de decision pour l'Initiative



PPTE renforcee. En effet, le Gouvemement a fait de la lutte contre la pauvrete une priorite de
son programme de developpement. Les principaux objectifs de sa strategie de reduction de la
pauvrete sont: (a) la reduction du seuil de pauvrete de 33,6% en 1998 a 30% en 2005 ; (b)
l'accroissement du taux brut de scolarisation de 74% en 2000 a 77% en 2004 ; (c) amelioration
de l'accessibilite des populations aux soins de sant6 primaire et l'intensification de la lutte contre
le VIH/SIDA.
5.    La volonte du Gouvernement de lutter contre la pauvrete et d'assurer une croissance
soutenue requiert l'approfondissement des reformes structurelles qui seront mises en cvuvre en
etroite collaboration avec la Banque Mondiale et d'autres partenaires au developpement. Le
Gouvernement entend s'appuyer principalement sur: (i) une amelioration significative de la
qualit6 des depenses publiques dans les secteurs sociaux afin d'elargir l'acces aux services
publics et d'en accroitre l'efficacite ; (ii) l'achevement des reformes des filieres agricoles ; (iii) la
poursuite du desengagement de l'Etat du secteur productif et commercial ; (iv) l'amelioration de
l'environnement reglementaire et operationnel des entreprises ; (v) l'amelioration de la gestion
des depenses publiques ; et (vi) la decentralisation.
6.    La presente lettre de politique de developpement a pour objet de decrire les strategies, les
actions et les mesures prioritaires que le Gouvemement souhaite voir appuyer par la Banque
Mondiale dans le cadre de la mise en couvre de son programme de croissance economique et de
reduction de la pauvrete. Celle-ci s'articule autour de trois volets:
(i)  la realisation d'une croissance forte et partagee;
(ii)  l'amelioration de l'acces des populations aux services sociaux de base: education et
sante;
(iii)  l'amelioration de la gestion des depenses publiques.
A << Croissance forte et partagee >
7.    Les programmes economique et d'assainissement engages par le Gouvernement
permettront a I' economie ivoirienne de retrouver un sentier de croissance reelle de 4% en
moyenne sur la periode 2002-2004.
8.    Cette croissance aura pour leviers essentiels : (i) I'assainissement des finances publiques
et la recherche d'une plus grande competitivite de l'economie ; (ii) la promotion et le
developpement du secteur prive, et le developpement de secteurs tels que l'agriculture, les
infrastructures, l'industrie et le tourisme ; (iii) la modernisation et la professionnalisation de
I'agriculture, notamment de l'agriculture vivriere et des productions non traditionnelles ; (iv)
l'amelioration de 1'efficacite des circuits de distribution et de commercialisation des produits
agricoles, et le developpement de la transformation de ces productions.
9.    Cette composante de la politique de developpement mettra l'accent sur la competitivite et
la croissance du secteur agricole et le developpement du secteur priv6.



a. Competitivite et croissance du secteur agricole.
10.   Dans l'agriculture, la politique du gouvernement sera axee sur: (i) I'accroissement de la
competitivite du secteur et de la part de la valeur ajoutee revenant aux producteurs; (ii)
I'amelioration de l'acces des producteurs au marche, notamment a l'exportation; (iii)
I'accroissement de la qualite de la production agricole ; (iv) la diversification et une meilleure
valorisation des productions notamment par leur transformation en produits de plus grande
valeur ajoutee.
11.   Le Gouvernement consolidera le processus de liberalisation de la filiere cafe/cacao. Un
nouveau cadre institutionnel et reglementaire de la filiere a ete mis en place et est constitue de:
(i) I'Autorite de Regulation du Cafe et du Cacao (ARCC), chargee de la mise en cruvre du cadre
legal et reglementaire du secteur garantissant une concurrence effective a tous les niveaux; (ii) la
Bourse du Cafe et du Cacao (BCC), chargee de coordonner la commercialisation du cafe et du
cacao et de mettre en ceuvre, avec le FRC, un mecanisme permettant une meilleure gestion des
risques de marche; (iii) le Fonds de Regulation et de Contr6le (FRC) charge de la gestion
financiere des operations de commercialisation ; et (iv) le Fonds de Developpement de la
Production de Cafe et de Cacao (FDPCC), responsable du financement de programmes de
developpement du secteur a l'initiative des producteurs eux-memes, a partir de prelevements
librement consentis sur la filiere.
12.   Pour achever l'operationalisation de ce cadre institutionnel, le Gouvemement s'attachera
a assurer:
*  l'instauration d'une concurrence effective a tous les niveaux de la filiere et la promotion
des petites et moyennes entreprises exportatrices nationales avec un accent particulier sur
la non constitution de position dominante.
* la representativite/legitimite des organes de gouvernance des nouvelles institutions ainsi
que la transparence et l'efficacite de leurs activites;
*  1'efficacite du mecanisme de conimercialisation et de gestion des risques et sa
compatibilite avec une concurrence veritable entre les operateurs de lafiliere;
* la compatibilite de la nature et du niveau de la taxation directe et des autres prelevements
sur la filiere avec l'objectif de croissance economique et de reduction de la pauvrete en
zone rurale.
13.   En attendant de definir le cadre reglementaire definitif pour l'ensemble de la filiere,
I'ARCC a mis en place pour la campagne 2001-2002 un systeme transitoire base sur des
plafonds d 'achat. Le Gouvemement a lance une etude pour la mise en place du cadre
reglementaire permettant a la fois d'assurer une concurrence saine et loyale dans la filiere,
empecher la constitution de positions dominantes et de promouvoir l'emergence de petites et
moyennes entreprises efficaces. Ce cadre reglementaire, qui exclura toute allocation
administrative ou quota la base de l'etude, sera mis en place avant la commercialisation de la
production de la prochaine campagne 2002-2003.



14.   Dans le cadre de sa strategie de promotion de la valeur ajoutee creee et distribuee dans le
secteur, le Gouvernement lancera aussi une revue detaillee des autres activites de la filiere:
transformation, achat en brousse, sacherie, transit et traitements phytosanitaires. En particulier, le
Gouvernement lancera (i) une etude detaillee de la valeur ajoutee engendree par la
transformation locale pour asseoir une strategie de developpement de cette activite; et (ii) une
etude de la strategie de promotion de la qualite, y compris les methodes de conditionnement et
d'emballage du produit a l'exportation.
15.   Pour une meilleure representativite et une efficacite des nouvelles institutions, le
gouvernement veillera a ce que: (i) le mode de fonctionnement des organes de gouvernance de
la BCC, du FDPCC et du FRC permette aux differents acteurs de l'interprofession de participer a
la prise de ddcision ; et (ii) le renouvellement des delegues des producteurs au Conseil
d'Administration de la BCC se fasse avant le 30 septembre 2002 sur la base d'elections
transparentes. Le gouvernement veillera egalement A ce que I'ARCC, la BCC et le FRC: (i)
disposent de politiques operationnelles et de procedures internes claires et connues de tous; (ii)
preparent des programmes d'activites et des budgets de fonctionnement annuels detailles, pour
approbation par leurs organes de gouvemance; et (iii) soient dotes de systemes de gestion
satisfaisants. A cette fin, un audit des activites et de la gestion au 31 mars 2002 de l'ARCC, la
BCC et la FDPCC sera realise.
16.   Au cours de la campagne 2001-2002, la commercialisation du cacao s'est faite dans le
cadre d'un systeme transitoire oui les prix etaient libres A tous les niveaux de la filiere au dessus
d'un prix minimum (annonce par la BCC en debut de campagne) base sur le prix international.
Ce systeme a fonctionne de fa,on satisfaisante et permis aux producteurs de profiter de la recente
forte hausse du prix du cacao sur le marche international.
17.   La BCC compte maintenant decider du systeme de mise A marche pour la prochaine
saison (2002-2003). Ce mecanisme de commercialisation du cacao sera mis en place avant la fin
du mois de juillet 2002 sur la base des recommandations d'une etude qui sera entreprise avec le
concours de la Banque mondiale. Le gouvemement veillera A ce que ce systeme: (i) re9oive
I'adhesion des acteurs de la filiere ; (ii) elimine toute intervention directe de l'Etat et tout
engagement financier direct ou implicite dans la commercialisation ; et (iii) permette que les prix
du marche international soient repercutes au niveau des producteurs ; (iv) exclue tout recours A
un systeme d'allocations administratives ou quotas autres que ceux qui pourraient s'averer
justifies sur la base de l'etude.
18.   Outre les prelevements fiscaux qui restent maintenus dans la limite de 20%, le
Gouvernement veillera A ce que l'ensemble des taxes et autres prelevements sur la filiere ne
depassent pas 30% du prix CAF.
19.   Concernant les autres prelevements, le Gouvernement s'assurera que leur utilisation se
fera sur la base d'activites clairement identifiees: (i) les prelevements de l'ARCC, de la BCC, du
FRC et du FDPCC seront justifies sur la base de programmes de travail et de budgets annuels
approuves par leurs organes de gouvernance ; (ii) les regles de gestion de la reserve prudentielle
de la BCC/FRC seront clairement definies. L'objectif du Gouvernement etant d'optimiser



l'efficacite du systeme de taxes/incitations sur le developpement de la filiere, il entreprendra une
revue exhaustive du systeme actuel, qui sera completee avant la fin de l'annee 2002.
b. Developpement du secteur prive
20.   Pour ce qui concerne le secteur coton, le Gouvernement est determine A parachever la
liberalisation de la filiere. A cette fin, il a organise avec l'interprofession, en janvier 2002, un
seminaire national reunissant tous les acteurs de la filiere qui a recommande un programme de
mesures, que le Gouvernement entend mettre en ceuvre, visant A: (i) achever la privatisation de
la CIDT A la fin de 2002 ; et (ii) mettre en place avant la fin de 2002 un cadre institutionnel
garantissant une concurrence saine et loyale A tous les stades de la filiere.
21.   La crise qui a secoue la Cote d'Ivoire depuis 2000 a cree un environnement defavorable
aux investissements prives, tant nationaux qu'internationaux. La reprise d'une croissance
economique forte depend de la restauration de la confiance des investisseurs et de la reprise d'un
dialogue constructif entre le Gouvemement, les operateurs et les acteurs du monde du travail. La
strategie du Gouvemement en matiere de developpement du secteur prive sera centree sur: (i) la
poursuite du desengagement de l'Etat ; (ii) l'amelioration de la securite des biens et des
personnes, et de l'environnement legal, judiciaire et reglementaire des entreprises et des secteurs
productifs; (iii) I'amelioration de l'acces au marche et aux services ; (iv) la dynamisation du
secteur financier ; et (v) la diminution du cofit des facteurs. Specifiquement, le gouvernement
entreprendra les mesures prioritaires suivantes:
*  redynamiser le processus de privatisation afin de promouvoir la croissance du secteur
priv6, source de creation d'emploi et de revenus. Le gouvemement adoptera une lettre de
politique de privatisation qui precisera sa vision et le cadre institutionnel dans lequel les
privatisations seront menees.
*  Elaborer un plan de restructuration de la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) au
plus tard A la fin juin 2002. Ce plan definira notamment le schema et les modalites
d'ouverture du capital aux partenaires prives. A ce sujet, une premiere consultation sera
lancee d'ici au 31 decembre 2002 en vue de selectionner une liste restreinte
d'investisseurs potentiels credibles pouvant jouer le role d'actionnaire de reference. Une
deuxieme consultation sera lancee en mars 2003 sur la base de la liste restreinte pour
selectionner l'actionnaire de reference et pour reduire la participation de l'Etat dans cette
institution A un niveau minoritaire d'ici au 30 juin 2003, et A moins de 20%, d'ici au 31
d6cembre 2003. Ce processus sera confirme par le Gouvernement dans sa << Lettre de
Politique de Privatisation >>.
* Enfin, renforcer le cadre de concertation secteur public-secteur prive en intensifiant les
echanges et en developpant des approches de solutions concertees afin de creer les bases
d'une confiance reciproque durable. Dans cet ordre d'idees, le Gouvemement va
entreprendre une revue des controles des divers services et regies de l'Etat dans les
entreprises privees, pour en ameliorer la coordination et l'efficacite. Le Gouvernement
entamera un dialogue avec le secteur prive dont les resultats serviront A la revision du <<



Livre de Procedures Fiscales >>. Le gouvernement s'engagera a assurer une large diffusion
de 1'ensemble des dispositions de ce << Livre >>
B o I'amelioration de l'acces des populations aux services sociaux de base: education et
sante>
a. Education
22.    Au cours de la periode 2002-2005, le gouvernement s'est donne les objectifs suivants: (i)
accroiltre le taux brut de scolarisation de 74% A 80% ; (ii) assurer l'acces de tous, en particulier
des filles et des enfants en zone rurale, au systeme scolaire; (iii) ameliorer la qualite et la
pertinence de l'enseignement ; (iv) renforcer le dispositif de formation et d'insertion
professionnelles, en particulier au profit des jeunes ; et (v) poursuivre la reduction du taux
d'analphabetisme.
23.    La strategie du gouvemement pour atteindre ces objectifs s'appuiera sur:
(i)    la generalisation progressive de la gratuite de l'enseignement, de la matemelle A la
classe de troisieme, avec un accent particulier sur les zones les plus defavorisees;
(ii)  I'augmentation de la capacite d'accueil par la construction de 800 classes par an, la
resorption du deficit d'enseignants A tous les niveaux et le renforcement de leurs
competences par la formation continue;
(iii)  la rehabilitation de l'enseignement technique et professionnel ; et
(iv)   le renforcement des programmes d'alphabetisation.
24.    A cet effet, le gouvernement s'attellera a mettre en aeuvre les mesures suivantes:
* Le maintien de la part du secteur de l'education dans les depenses publiques (hors
financement exterieur) a au moins 3,8% et en donnant une priorite au niveau primaire de
l'education dans les allocations globales du secteur;
*  La realisation d'une revue des depenses publiques dans ce secteur (voir  29);
*  La revision des textes (decrets et arretes d'application) relatifs a l'organisation et au
fonctionnement des COGES precisant le r6le qui sera devolu aux associations de parents
d'eleves dans la gestion des etablissements scolaires;
*  L'ouverture totale A la concurrence, du marche de l'edition des manuels scolaires du
primaire et du pre-scolaire pour la rentree scolaire 2003-04. Pour la rentree 2002-03, une
procedure transitoire tenantcompte des contraintes legales et des delais de production et
de distribution sera convenue avec la Banque Mondiale.
* La reduction des frais scolaires au niveau de l'ecole primaire, par la gratuite des manuels
A travers un systeme de pret-location, la distribution de << kits scolaires >> (du CP1 au
CE2) et l'extension du programme de cantines scolaires, en accordant des la prochaine
rentree scolaire 2002 - 2003 la priorite aux (43) sous-prefectures les plus defavorisees;



*  L'introduction dans les programmes scolaires des notions de nutrition et de sante
reproductive et le financement de comites de lutte contre le SIDA au
niveau de toutes les ecoles.
25.   Le gouvernement mettra egalement en ceuvre les reformes necessaires pour ameliorer la
gestion et l'efficacite du secteur, et renforcera par ailleurs le partenariat Etat - secteur prive -
societe civile ainsi que le r6le des Comites de Gestion (COGES) dans la gestion des
infrastructures scolaires. II a entrepris la revue en profondeur du Programme National pour le
Developpement de l'Education et la Formation (PNDEF) pour le mettre en coherence avec cette
strategie. Un << Rapport sur l'etat du systeme educatif national (RESEN) >> sera acheve avant la
fin 2002. Les conclusions de ce rapport serviront A la fois A sous-tendre l'actualisation du
PNDEF et la finalisation du DSRP.
b. Sante
26.    Les objectifs principaux du gouvemement pour la periode 2002-2005 sont de reduire la
mortalite et la morbidite liees aux grands problemes de sante (en particulier la mortalite
maternelle et infantile) de 15% d'ici 2005 et de redynamiser la politique de planning familial.
Pour cela, le gouvemement entend mettre en ceuvre la strategie suivante: (i) ameliorer la
couverture et la qualite des soins de sante, notamment en matiere de sante primaire, avec un
accent particulier sur les groupes vulnerables et les zones rurales ; (ii) augmenter le taux de
vaccination A 80% d'ici 2005 ; (iii) reduire les frais de sante pour les populations grAce A
l'utilisation des medicaments generiques et A l'instauration de l'assurance maladie universelle;
(iv) accroitre l'efficacite du systeme de sante grace A la restructuration du Ministere de la Sante,
a l'amelioration de la gestion des ressources humaines et financieres, et au renforcement du
partenariat avec le secteur prive et la societe civile ; et (v) accroitre l'efficacite du dispositif de
lutte contre le SIDA et la pro-activite des acteurs intervenant dans la lutte contre la pandemie. La
mise en ceuvre de la strategie s'appuiera sur les axes operationnels suivants:
*  assurer la coherence entre la strat6gie de developpement du secteur et les depenses
budgetaires en sa faveur. Pour ce faire, le Gouvemement mettra en ceuvre une revue des
depenses publiques dans le secteur (voir  29).
*  ameliorer la disponibilite et l'accessibilite des medicaments generiques (MEG) aux
populations par l'accroissement du taux d'utilisation, grace A: (i) la promotion de
l'utilisation des MEG par des campagnes de sensibilisation des utilisateurs et la
formation/sensibilisation des medecins, des infirmiers et des pharmaciens ; (ii) l'analyse
detaillee de la possibilite, parmi les specialites actuellement achetees par la Pharmacie de
la Sante Publique (PSP), d'augmenter la proportion des medicaments generiques, et de la
vente par la PSP des MEG aux distributeurs prives ; (iii) le renforcement du systeme de
controle de qualite des medicaments g6neriques, en particulier au niveau du laboratoire
national d'analyse ; et (iv) I'amelioration de l'efficacite du systeme d'achat, de
financement et de distribution par la PSP des medicaments destines au secteur public,
pour assurer la pertinence dans le choix des medicaments, diminuer leur cofit et eviter les
ruptures de stock. A cet effet, une etude sur l'approvisionnement et la distribution sera
lancee pour determiner un plan d'actions qui sera convenu avec les partenaires au
d6veloppement. Toutes les commandes suivantes vont refleter le plan d'actions convenu;



*  amelioration de la qualite des services de sante de base ainsi que leur rapprochement de
la population A travers un nouveau partenariat entre les structures de sante et les
communautes dans le cadre de la decentralisation. Une experience pilote de gestion bas6e
sur la performance sera conduite dans quatre (4) districts dans le cadre du Programme de
Developpement des Services de Sante Int6gres (PDSSI) afin de preparer la definition et la
mise en oeuvre des nouveaux r6le et responsabilite ainsi que les relations fonctionnelles
entre (i) les Conseils Gn&raux et les districts sanitaires au niveau departemental et (ii) les
COGES et les formations sanitaires au niveau peripherique;
*  augmenter le taux d'utilisation des services de sante notamment (i)en reduisant le couit
des medicaments essentiels,(ii) en rapprochant les centres de sante des populations les
plus pauvres et les plus vulnerables. Pour demarrer cette initiative, le prix des
medicaments sera subventionne grace A une re-allocation budgetaire de 680 millions de
FCFA mise A la disposition des formations sanitaires dans 4 district sanitaires
(departements) de la zone pilote du PDSSI (Tiassale, Grand-Lahou, Guiglo et Duekoue).
Pour ces 4 districts sanitaires:
o  les fonds seront geres A travers des regies d'avances mises en place dans le cadre du
PDSSI; et elle impliquera les COGES concernes;
o  pour une plus grande efficacite, les responsables des COGES seront formes en
gestion communautaire et financiere;
o  un manuel de procedure sera elabore et precisera egalement les modalites de controle.
C. < Amelioration de la gestion des depenses publiqueso>
27.   La procedure budg6taire debute avec l'elaboration du cadrage budgetaire qui s'inspire du
cadrage macroeconomique. Ce cadrage budgetaire qui fixe provisoirement le montant global du
budget pour l'annee A venir, fait l'objet d'une adoption par le Conseil des Ministres. Apres
l'adoption du cadrage budgetaire, une lettre de cadrage du Premier Ministre est adressee aux
differents ministeres. Cette lettre indique les enveloppes de depenses ordinaires et
d'investissement allouees a chaque ministere. Avec la transmission des propositions de budget
par ministere, les conferences budgetaires sont organisees qui aboutissent A l'adoption par le
Conseil des Ministres du projet de loi des finances pour l'annee A venir. Ce projet de loi, avec le
certificat de conformite de la Chambre des Comptes sur l'execution de l'exercice en cours, sont
transmis A l'Assemblee Nationale. Les projets de loi de finances et de reglement sont discutes et
adoptes par l'Assemblee nationale. Les debats en pleniere sont retransmis par la T6levision
Nationale et les media. La loi de finances ainsi vote est promulgue dans le Journal Officiel et les
documents budgetaires sont distribues  aux structures de l'Administration publique, aux
operateurs economiques et aux federations de syndicats.
28.   Le Gouvernement a fait de l'amelioration de la gestion des finances publiques un element
central de sa strategie pour accroltre l'efficacite et l'impact des services publics.  Cette
amelioration portera notamment sur la programmation-budgetisation, la capacite de rendre
compte de l'utilisation des ressources publiques, l'execution des programmes de depenses
publiques, les procedures de passation des marches publics, et l'amelioration des contr6les
intemes et extemes dans le cadre de la bonne gouvemance.



29.   En matiere de programmation et de budgetisation, le Gouvernement entend utiliser les
Revues de Depenses Publiques (RDP) et la preparation de Cadres deDepenses Publiques a
Moyen Terme (CDPMT), pour assurer une meilleure coherence entre ses priorites en matiere de
lutte contre la pauvrete et les allocations budgetaires. Pour ce faire, le Gouvernement a cree une
Cellule de Revue des Depenses Publiques (CRDP) au sein du Ministere de l'Economie et des
Finances. Le programme de travail de la CRDP en 2002 sera centre sur la revue des depenses
publiques de [2001], avec un accent particulier dans les secteurs Sante et Education. Une note
conceptuelle sera elaboree A cet effet. La cellule definira ensuite un programme de travail a
moyen terme qu'elle suivra avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale, de l'Union Europeenne et des
autres partenaires au d6veloppement.
30.   En 1999, le Gouvemement a introduit un Systeme Integre de Gestion des Finances
Publiques (SIGFIP) et lance une revue du Code des marches publics. Le SIGFIP, bien qu'ayant
fonctionne de facon globalement satisfaisante, s'est cependant montre dans sa forme initiale
excessivement centralise et contraignant, en particulier pour l'execution des programmes A
application decentralisee. Des mesures correctives ont et recernment introduites pour rendre le
SIGFIP plus flexible et compatible avec la politique de deconcentration et de decentralisation de
l'Etat, et le Gouvernement a mis en place une Commission speciale pour assurer le suivi detaille
de l'efficacite du systeme. Pour am6liorer l'utilisation des ressources fmancieres et accroitre la
capacite de decaissement des financements exterieurs, un amenagement du SIGFIP sera opere
visant la mise en place de regies d'avance pour permettre une execution plus rapide des
operations des projets. Pour s'assurer d'une bonne maitrise de cet amenagement, des mesures
d'accompagnement seront mises en ceuvre et porteront essentiellement sur une plus grande
frequence des contr6les a posteriori. En outre, un audit technique du circuit de la depense
publique sera r6alise avant la fin de l'annee 2002 et une etude approfondie de la fiabilite du
systeme de gestion des ressources publiques (CFAA) sera effectuee en 2003 en collaboration
avec les partenaires au developpement.
31.   Pour ce qui est des Procedures de Passation des Marches Publics, leur reforme repose sur
les principales composantes d'un systeme de passation des marches publics, A savoir: (i) Un
cadre legal etabli pour la passation des marches publics, (ii) Une pratique transparente de
procedures modernis6es de passation des marches; (iii) Une capacite institutionnelle suffisante;
(iv) L'existence d'un systeme independant de contr6le ; (v) Des mesures contre la corruption
liees A la passation des marches.
32.   Les resultats partiels de la reforme du systeme des marches publics ont ete examin6s au
cours d'un seminaire de restitution, organise les 10 et 11 mai 2001 A Yamoussoukro. Toutes les
recommandations A portee reglementaire et juridique visant A promouvoir et A renforcer la
transparence, l'equite, l'efficacite des procedures et la responsabilisation des acteurs, seront
prises en compte dans une version amendee du projet de code des marches publics.
33.   Les defis qui restent encore A relever dans le domaine de la reforme institutionnelle et
legale sont: (i) la composition et les termes de reference de la commission d'arbitrage et de
conciliation, en vue de s'assurer qu'il n'y pas de risque de conflit d'interet et qu'il soit percu par
le secteur prive et la societe civile comme un mecanisme efficace pour proteger les droits de
tous; (ii) le choix d'une entite independante pour mener des audits externes efficaces et (iii)



l'inclusion et l'application de sanctions penales dans le Code pour pratiques frauduleuses et
corruption liees A la passation des marches.
34.   Le projet de Code sera soumis pour adoption au Conseil des Ministres au plus tard fin
juin 2002 afin d'autoriser la poursuite des travaux de la reforme visant A approfondir I'analyse du
schema institutionnel et A proposer un dispositif operationnel de formation et de renforcement
des capacites, ainsi qu'un schema directeur d'informatisation du systeme. Un cabinet
international a ete recrute par le Gouvernement pour fmaliser les aspects institutionnels et leurs
recommandations et conclusions seront examinees pour adoption. La version finale du Code sera
adoptee par le Gouvernement au plus tard en Septembre 2002 et transmise A l'Assembl6e
Nationale pour adoption.
35.   Le Gouvernement lancera en 2003 une revue analytique du systeme en collaboration avec
la Banque pour evaluer la mise en oeuvre de cette reforme. Elle portera sur: (i) la mise A
disposition d'un personnel adequat dans toutes les entites chargees de la passation des marches
aussi bien aux niveaux central que decentralise ; (ii) le renforcement des capacites et la formation
pour permettre a ces entites de faire face A leurs nouvelles responsabilites ; et (iii) la fourniture
d'outils modernes A ces entites.
36.   Dans le cadre de la bonne gouvernance et plus specifiquement de l'amelioration des
controles internes et extemes, des mesures ont ete prises pour renforcer le suivi et le controle des
depenses publiques: (i) renforcement de la Direction Generale du Budget du Ministere de
l'Economie et des Finances, avec le regroupement de la Direction du Controle Financier et la
Direction du Contr6le Budgetaire ; et (ii) restructuration de l'actuelle Chambre des Comptes de
la Cour Supreme, qui a la charge du controle de tous les services qui recoivent de fonds publics,
en une Cour des Comptes Autonome. Elle sera la juridiction supreme de contr6le des finances
publiques, dont la juridiction s'etendra non seulement aux comptables publics mais aussi aux
ordonnateurs, y compris les elus locaux ; et (iii) renforcement de l'Inspection Generale des
Finances et mise en couvre d'audits techniques et financiers des departements ministeriels (sante,
education, infrastructures).
37.   Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement soumettra avant septembre 2002 les projets de loi de
reglements 1999 et 2000 incluant le rapport de la Chambre des Comptes, A l'Assembl6e
Nationale. II soumettra A l'Assemblee Nationale, au plus tard en decembre 2002, le projet de loi
de reglements 2001 accompagne du rapport de la Chambre des Comptes. Par ailleurs, un projet
de loi portant creation de la Cour des Comptes sera transmis A l'Assemblee Nationale au plus
tard en Septembre 2002 pour adoption.
38.   En vue de l'information du grand public, le Gouvernement s'assurera d'une large
diffusion des mesures et des resultats economiques A travers les media. La couverture des debats
parlementaires et la publication d'articles informatifs dans la presse ecrite seront systematisees.
39.   La decentralisation et la participation des populations sont au centre de la strategie de
lutte contre la pauvrete. Cette politique permettra la creation de 56 departements et de 2 districts
et portera le nombre de communes A 580 contre 370 actuellement, avec trois objectifs
principaux: (i) rapprocher l'administration du citoyen ; (ii) renforcer la participation des
populations a la gestion de leurs propres affaires et (iii) ameliorer l'efficience des administrations



centrales. Un seminaire national (Decembre 2001) a permis de definir le partage des champs de
competence entre l'administration centrale, ses organes deconcentres et les collectivites
territoriales, selon le principe de subsidiarite, et un projet de loi sur les transferts de competence
est en preparation. Pendant la periode 2002-2005 le Gouvernement entend lancer des operations
pilote permettant de tester la mise en oeuvre pratique des grands principes de
deconcentration/decentralisation dans les secteurs de la sante et de l'education.
40. Le Ministere de la Sante a initie la preparation d'un plan visant a la
restructuration/deconcentration de ses services, l'amelioration des capacites de programmation,
et d'execution A tous les niveaux, l'introduction de mecanismes de gestion du personnel base sur
la performance, pour s'assurer que ses services repondent mieux aux besoins des beneficiaires
et la definition ainsi que la mise en ceuvre d'un systeme de suivi-evaluation de 1'efficacite du
systeme sanitaire national. Ce plan sera finalise avant la fin de l'ann6e 2002 pour une mise en
ccuvre des 2003, comme programme pilote avant son extension aux autres ministeres.
41.   Pour accroitre la responsabilisation des communautes/beneficiaires dans la definition de
ses politiques et la mise en ceuvre des services de base, un programme pilote a ete prepare dans
les secteurs de l'education et de la sante pour la gestion des structures de base. Cette
responsabilisation s'appuiera sur les Comites de gestion communautaires (COGES, voir ci-
dessus) qui se verront allouer directement les ressources budgetaires necessaires A la gestion des
services et A l'entretien des infrastructures au niveau du terrain. Le gouvernement a dejA lance la
preparation des mesures d'accompagnement indispensables pour op6rationnaliser ce programme:
(i) revision des statuts des COGES ; (ii) etablissement d'un protocole-type d'accord de
partenariat entre l'Etat et les COGES ; (iii) definition d'un mecanisme de transfert budgetaire et
mise en place d'un systeme de suivi et d'audit des operations des COGES. A la fin de la
premiere annee de fonctionnement des COGES selectionnes dans les secteurs sante et education,
une evaluation sera faite.
D. < Dispositif institutionnel pour la gestion du Programme >
42.   Pour une gestion efficace du programme economique et financier du Gouvemement, un
Comite de Pilotage des reformes structurelles a ete mis en place. IL est preside par le Premier
Ministre et comprend le Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances et le Ministre de la Fonction
Publique. Ce Comite de Pilotage est dote d'un Secretariat technique qui a en charge au quotidien,
le suivi et l'evaluation de la mise en ceuvre des reformes, mesures et actions adoptees par le
Gouvernement et convenues avec les partenaires au developpernent.
43.   Dans le cadre du programme de relance economique, le Comite de Pilotage veillera A sa
bonne conduite et a la mise en cruvre effective des mesures arretees. Un rapport d'execution sera
produit A chaque tranche. L'impact de ces mesures fera l'objet d'un suivi A l'aide d'indicateurs
qui seront definis dans le cadre du dispositif de suivi-evaluation qui sera mis en place dans le
DSRP.



Annex 3
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                      Page 1 of 5
C8te d'Ivoire
Economic Recovery Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives          Actions Through June 2002        Second Tranche               Third Tranche                Indicators
A) CREATING
CONDITIONS FOR
RENEWED BROAD-
BASED GROWTH
1. Agriculture Sector
Coffee/Cocoa Sector
Ensuring effective          Formal elimination of state-  Implementation by BCC/FRC                            Elimination of State role in
Competition in the          run marketing of cocoa and  of a competitive marketing                             the marketing of cocoa and
Coffee/Cocoa Sector         coffee with liquidation of  strategy for the 2002/2003                             coffee
CAISTAB (December 2001)     cocoa and coffee crop year,
excluding any administrative
allocations or quotas, unless
as otherwise agreed with IDA
Introduction of an Efficient  Launching of a study of the  Adoption by government of a                         Consolidation of the
Regulatory Framework        regulatory framework to     new regulatory framework for                           liberalization of the cocoa
ensure competition at all   cocoa and coffee trade, based                          and coffee sectors with
stages of the cocoa/coffee  on competition and excluding                           introduction of a regulatory
chain; as well as to define the  any administrative allocation                     framework excluding use of
marketing mechanism to put  or quotas, unless as otherwise                         quotas
in place for the 2002-2003  agreed with IDA
crop year
Ensuring Greater Efficiency  Launch of audit of activities  Implementation by ARCC, BCC,
of Producer Institutions and  and financial operations of  and FDPCC of the
Higher Return to Producers  ARCC, BCC, and FDPCC        recommendations of the audit of
through March 2002; and     the activities, procedures and
preparatio of operationl . financial statements; adoption by
preparation of operational  them of levels of non-tax levies
program and budget for      for cocoa and coffee in the 2002-
2002/03                     2003 crop year on the basis of
recommendations of the audit;
and adoption by them of their
annual programs for the
200212003 crop year



Annex 3
CMte d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                   Page 2 of 5
C6te d'Ivoire
Economic Recovery Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives          Actions Through June 2002       Second Tranche              Third Tranche                Indicators
Cotton Sector
Pursuit of Conditions to                                                          Privatization (take to point of  Elimination of State role in
Enhance Competition                                                              sale) of the "CIDT-Nouvelle"  cotton ginning and marketing
Adoption of an Efficient                                                         Adoption by the government  Clearer operational
Regulatory Framework                                                             of an institutional and    environment for agents in the
regulatory framework to    cotton sector;
ensure competition at all  Greater role of producers in
levels of the cotton chain  sector management
2. Private Sector
Development
Relaunch of Privatization  Declaration of new policy
stance on privatization in a
Privatization Policy
Statement
Pursuit of rehabilitation of                                                     Selection of a qualified   Greater private sector
Financial Sector                                                                 technical partner for the  ownership of and say in the
CAA; and privatization (offer  operation of the CAA
for sale to willing buyers) of
at least 51 percent of the
outstanding shares
Re-establishment of        Inauguration of new state-                            Adoption and publication   Re-affirmation of the
Confidence with the Private  private sector partnership and                      (entry into application) of the  presumption of taxpayer
Sector                     launching of collaborative                            revised Fiscal Procedures   innocence until proven
work on revision of the Fiscal                        Manual                     otherwise. Fewer disputes
Procedures Manual (manual                                                        involving cases of abuse of
on the public's relation with                                                    authority of tax officers
tax authorities)



Annex 3
C6te dI'voire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                   Page 3 of 5
CMte d'Ivoire
Economic Recovery Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives          Actions Through June 2002       Second Tranche             Third Tranche                 Indicators
B) EXPANDING ACCESS
TO AND IMPROVING
DELIVERY OF BASIC
PUBLIC SERVICES
(EDUCATION AND
HEALTH)
1. Education and Health
Strengthening Local        Publication of legal texts  Signature of agreements                               Greater responsibility of
Community Participation in  (decree and arrdte')      between the Ministries of                              parents in the management of
Service Delivery through   reorganizing the COGES in  Education and Health, on the                           education services; increase
COGES                      the education sector; enabling  one hand, and the selected                       in level of services managed
them to manage resources   education and health COGES,                            by beneficiaries permitting an
transferred to them from the  on the other; the opening of                        increase in school enrollment
budget or directly collected  bank accounts in appropriate                       especially of girls
by them, with a reinforced  institutions by the COGES;
role and responsibility for  and the deposit of at least 60
parents; and the adoption of a  per cent of the budget in
guiding manual of procedures  those accounts
Expansion of access to     Increase in the allocation for                        Completion of a study for  Increased access to education
education and health services  primary schools within the                        procuring and distributing  (via delivery of basic inputs
by increasing resource     approved 2002 budget of the                           essential drugs for the public  free-of-charge at the lowest
allocation to critical input  Ministry of National                               sector; the adoption of an  level; and higher volume of
areas, with some targeting to  Education by CFAF 6.8                             action plan based on the    resources to break bottlenecks
the very poor              billion; with CFAF 2.5 billion                        results of the study to    to schooling) by the very poor
for textbooks; CFAF 2.2                               improve the procurement of  and girls
billion for school kits; CFAF                         essential drugs; and provision
1.8 billion to transfer to                            of evidence, satisfactory to  Increased availability and use
COGES; and CFAF 0.3                                   IDA, that essential drugs for  of generic drugs, thereby
billion for canteens                                  the public sector have been  reducing health care costs
procured in a manner
consistent with the modalities
of the action plan



Annex 3
Cote dI'voire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                  Page 4 of 5
CMte d'Ivoire
Economic Recovery Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives         Actions Through June 2002       Second Tranche             Third Tranche                 Indicators
Increase the 2002 budget                                                        Increased access to primary
allocation of the Ministry of                                                   health services (via allocation
Health by CFAF 680 million                                                      of resources to subsidize the
for subsidizing essential                                                       cost) by the very poor in four
drugs in the poorest health                                                     poorest districts
districts: Tiassale, Grand-
Lahou, Guiglo, and Duekoue
Reduction of the Cost of                              Opening to competition of the
School Textbooks by Freeing                          textbook publishing and
the Market;                                          sector;
and supply to the IEPS in the
Supply of Free Primary                                43 selected school districts of
Textbooks to Very Poor                               their stock of free textbooks
Pupils in Targeted Districts
C) PUBLIC
EXPENDITURE
MANAGEMENT
1. Budget Formulation      Joint agreement with the                                                        Diagnostics of public
World Bank and EU on                                                            expenditure allocation and
Concept Paper for the 2002                                                      management processes as a
PER                                                                             basis for reinforcing the EU-
supported program
2. Budget Execution
Improving Efficiency of   Introduction of an integrated                                                    Accelerated implementation
Budget Execution           publicfinancial management                                                      of programs and projects in
system (SIGFIP) and launch                                                      the public development
of a review of procurement                                                      program
procedures (1999-2000).
Modification of SIGFI
processes by institution of
advances for funding
project/program operation,
I supported by regular audits.  I



Annex 3
Core d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                    Page 5 of 5
CMte d'Ivoire
Economic Recovery Credit
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives          Actions Through June 2002       Second Tranche              Third Tranche                 Indicators
Assignment of the duties of
"regisseur" to project
financial managers and
accountants, to allow for
efficient use of the advances
Improving Procurement      Preparation of new draft                                                           Budget execution via clearer
Procurement Code (2001)                                                           procurement processes,
permitting savings and
probity in the use of public
resources
3. Budget Reporting and    Transmission (disclosure) to  Transmission to the National  Transmission (disclosure) to  Disclosure of outcomes in the
Governance: Internal       the National Assembly of the  Assembly for             the National Assembly of the  use of budgetary resources in
Controls, Auditing and     audits (Lois de R&glement) of  adoption/passage of the new  audit of the 2001 budget and  1999-2001 to elected
External Oversight         the 1999 and 2000 budgets   draft laws on the Procurement the report by the        representatives, with scope
and the reports on them by  Code and establishment of  Cour/chambre des Comptes   for sanctions/corrective
the Chambre des Comptes on  the Supreme Audit Court    on it                      action.
the (May 2002)             (Cour des Comptes)



I



Annex 4
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                Page I of 2
SYNERGY BETWEEN THE ERC AND THE PROJECT PORTFOLIO
Linkages with the On-going Portfolio. IDA's interim assistance strategy is designed to
establish a strong synergy between the proposed ERC and the on-going IDA-financed sectoral
programs: the ERC supporting inter-sectoral and cross-cutting issues (such as public sector
management), while intra-sectoral priorities and efficiency issues will be dealt with under the
specific sectoral programs. IDA's active portfolio in Cote d'Ivoire includes 12 operations
(Annex 9). This portfolio is being restructured around broader, multi-sectoral programs in
support of the PRSP's two main objectives: (i) sustained growth (agricultural services, PSD,
transport infrastructure.. .);and (ii) improved social service delivery (health, education, water
supply) - - and strategic instruments: decentralization and capacity-building.
However, the full impact of this restructuring requires that the constraints which had increasingly
impeded project implementation over the last three years be immediately addressed. As of
December 31, 2002, total IDA commitments amounted to US$585 million under the on-going
portfolio, of which US$250 million remained undisbursed. Project implementation had been
slow even before disbursement suspension in March 2001, because of an increasingly acute lack
of counterpart funds and the rigidities of the newly introduced Integrated Computerized
Financial Management System (SIGFIP). The funds provided by the ERC would contribute
significantly to the improved availability of the counterpart funds necessary to implement the
government's priority programs. In addition, the government has taken several steps to address
bottlenecks in project implementation:
* Counterpart funding. The government has set up a "Cellule de revue des depenses
publiques" to prepare global and sectoral public expenditure reviews and medium-
term expenditures frameworks, to better align budgetary allocations with available
resources and government priorities.  This will minimize counterpart funds
constraints. In addition, PERs will focus on practical implementation issues and
controls and will build a strong base for moving toward a full CFAA in 2003.
* SIGFIP. Improvements have been introduced in the SIGFIP to make the system
more flexible and compatible with decentralized implementation arrangements.
Projects coordinators have all been trained in SIGFIP procedures. A special Unit has
been established within the Ministry of Economy and Finance to monitor the impact
of SIGFIP on project implementation and rapidly address deficiencies.  A
comprehensive revue of SIGFIP operations will be undertaken at the end of 2002 to
recommend further improvements as needed.
* Public procurement. The new Public Procurement Code has been prepared with
IDA's assistance. It will be submitted to the government for approval by May 2002
and to the National Assembly for approval before the end of the year. The new Code
addresses both the fiduciary shortcomings highlighted by the 1999 and 2000 audits,
and the need to make public procurement more attuned to the requirements of
decentralized implementation.



Annex 4
Cote dI'voire: Economic Recovery Credit                                Page 2 of 2
The government has set up a task force to handle the backlog of procurement contracts which has
accumulated during the suspension of disbursements and monitor the implementation of public
expenditure programs, and take corrective actions where necessary. A full CPPR would be
undertaken in 2003.



Annex 5
C6te d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                      Page I of 2
Cote d'Ivoire at a glance                                                              517/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  C6te   Saharan      Low-
dilvolre   Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                      16.3      659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   630       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     10.4      313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population {X)                                        2.3       2.6      1.9
Labor force (%)                                       3.2       2.6      2.4      GNI    I             .         Groas
per          K       -        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              51        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      54        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              88        92        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)            24         ..       ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  63        55        76
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                   57        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  71        78        96                Cotedlvoira
Male                                                82        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              61        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ration'
GDP (US$ billions)                           8.4     13.6      10.6     10.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP               25.9      6.1      10.6      9.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP           35.2     23.2      39.8     39.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  18.8      8.5      17.3      16.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..     -3.8       7.2      7.7
Current account balance/GDP                   ..     -9.9      -3.4     -3.0      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        8.2      3.6       5.5      5.4    osaings t                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              96.5    137.4      93.5     88.3    I vings
Total debt servicelexports                  51.2     40.4      19.2     20.4     1
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      55.6     57.1     1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..     1385     143.9
1981-91  1991-01    2000      2001    2001-05                 Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.2      7.6     -2.3      -0.9      4.5             -    Cote dlvoire
GDP per capita                     -2.5      4.7     -4.2      -2.8      4.2     !         _   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.0      4.1     -6.7      -1.2      4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 26.5     25.7      24.2      24.3
Industry                                    18.6     19.0      22.2     21.6         -
Manufacturing                             11.8     17.3      19.1      18.8
Services                                    54.9     55.2      53.7     54.1                             go 5
Private consumption                         63.6     78.9      73.9     74.0    .30
General government consumption              17.6     12.7       8.8      9.1                  GDI         *  GDP
Imports of goods and services               42.3     20.9      33.1     32.3
1981.91  1991-01      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports l%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.2      3.2      12.9      -1.6    40
Industry                                     6.3      5.1      -9.5     -2.4     30
Manufacturing                              5.4      4.4      -7.2      -1.7    20
Services                                    -2.1     13.3      -5.8      0.1     I0
Private consumption                          1 0      8.4       4.3       1.3
General government consumption              -1.2      2.4     -11.8       2.3   -1s                      99
Gross domestic investment                   -72      11.2     -21.0    -22.5            -     Exports     -Imports
Imports of goods and services               -2.1      1.5      -1.4     -4.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 5
Cote d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                        Page 2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000      2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                               8.7      1.6       3.6       3.1    10
Implicft GDP deflator                         1.1     -1.0      -0.1      2.1      5 
Government finance                                                                 o 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       96    97    go    99    00    01
Current revenue                                       15.1      16.8      17.2    -s
Current budget balance                                -8.1       1.6       2.3                 GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -10.4      -1.2      -0.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991       2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         2.435    2,810     3.788     3,668    scoo
Cocoa                                        ..      739       783       839
nueac                                                          164       134     4.000
Manufactures                                         988      1.299    1,277     3.000
Total imports (ciR)                         2.445    2,103     2,821     2,722    2.000
Food                                        457      490       433       444
Fuel and energy                             530      530       838       720     1.000
Capital goods                               677      404       447       439       o
Export price index (1995=100)                 45       42         93       94           gs   ss   97    so   9    X    01
Import price index (1995=100)                 41       52        123      121                 KExports      mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     112      82         76       77
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               2,966    3,149     4,226     4,100     0
Imports of goods and services               3.566    2,832     3.514     3,364
Resource balance                            -600      317        711      736
Net income                                   -522   -1.371      -767     -629      2
Net current transfers                       -488      -293      -282     -337            I      11111
Current account balance                      N/A    -1,347      -363      -311
Financing items (net)                                1,397       175      192
Changes in net reserves                      N/A      -50        188      119
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        37       29        663      729
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            271.7    282.1     710.0     732.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        8,141   18,643     9,935     9,198
IBRD                                       341     1,986      599       491                     Gu57491
IDA                                          8       38      1.366     1.362                           6  1362
Total debt service                          1,533    1.279       820      898
IBRD                                        40      324        158       97
IDA                                          0        0         18       19              /
F: 7,043
ComposRbon of net resource flows
Official grants                             11      312        116        ..                                      4.950
Official creditors                          74      393       -202     -278
Private creditors                          659        -4        -4      287
Foreign direct investment                   33       16        134      138
Portfolio equRty                             0        0         81       87                      E: 3,868
World Bank program
CommRtments                                317      452          0        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               48      219        191      115      8- IDA   D- Other mulblatoral  F- Private
Principal repayments                        14      154        109       55      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   35       64         82       60
Interest payments                           26      169         67       61
Net transfers                                9     -105         15       -1
Development Economics                                                                                                5/7/02



Annex 6
Cote d 'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                           Page I of 3
Cote d'Ivoire - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                      Est.          Proj.
Indicator         1995  1996    1997    1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product  100.0 100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculturea            24.7  24.6    23.3    24.1  22.0    24.2   24.3    24.1   23.9    23.4
Industrya               20.8  20.4    23.7    23.0  24.2    22.2   21.6    21.8   22.0    22.9
Services'               54.5  55.0    53.0    52.9  53.8    53.7   54.1    54.1   54.1    53.7
Total Consumption        77.1  80.2     77.2   80.3   78.7    82.7   83.1    80.0   78.4   77.7
Grossdomesticfixed       13.7  14.8     14.5   16.0   14.4    11.0    9.0    13.1   14.1   14.3
investment
Government               5.1   4.9     5.4     6.0   4.2     2.8     1.2    4.0    4.3     4.3
investment
Private investment      10.5   7.2     9.0     7.3   8.9     7.8     8.6    9.5   10.3    10.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b          41.8  41.1     41.4   39.4   40.3    39.8   39.4    38.6   38.8   38.9
Imports (GNFS)           34.4  32.4     33.1   33.0   32.2    33.1   32.3    32.1   31.9   31.6
Gross domestic savings   22.9  19.8     22.8   19.7   21.3    17.3   16.9    20.0   21.6   22.3
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product  10999 12138    11722  12806  12576  10622   10418  11023   11831  12745
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per  670.0 670.0  730.0  720.0  710.0  680.0  640.0  650.0  670.0  690.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth
rates
(%, calculated from
1987
prices)
Gross domestic product at    7.7%     5.7%   4.8%   1.6%   -2.3%  -0.9%    3.0%   4.7%   4.9%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income        8.2%     5.1%   5.5%   1.8%   -1.4%  -1.1%    3.2%   4.6%   4.9%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at    4.5%     2.9%   2.3%  -0.4%   -4.2%  -2.8%    0.9%   2.6%   2.9%
market prices
Total consumption     3.2%   4.3%     2.4%   5.8%  -1.5%    0.5%  -0.6%   -0.6%   1.3%   2.7%
Private consumption   2.2%   5.2%     2.6%   7.7%  -2.5%    2.3%  -0.7%   -0.6%   1.0%   3.0%
(cont 'd)



Annex 6
Cote d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                            Page 2 of 3
Cote d'Ivoire - Key Economic Indicators
, - : - . - . . ~Advual                        a           ?Mb>....Est:.  . Proi.
i  Iiidicar;  . 1995   1996    >194    I998. .   199  .200M  2001.  2002   1003    2004
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b     5077.6 4988.9    4855.1 5047.3 5073.2  4225.7 4099.8 4253.7 4596.0  4958.7
Merchandise FOB   4303.7 4256.4    4275.5 4431.7 4486.1  3788.1 3668.0 3797.2 4105.9  4430.7
Imports (GNFS)b     3806.8 4187.9   4053.7 4232.2 4046.6  3514.2 3364.1 3539.5 3772.9  4021.0
Merchandise FOB   2473.8 2762.7    2712.5 2759.9 2642.9  2321.3 2240.1 2300.1 2484.3  2677.7
Resource balance     1270.8  801.0    801.3  815.1 1026.6  711.4  735.7   714.2  823.1   937.7
Net current transfers  -466.3 -342.4  -380.4 -394.3 -387.1  -282.0 -337.2 -353.0 -376.0  -454.0
(including official
current
transfers)
Current account      -112.9 -378.2   -321.3 -303.0 -107.2  -363.7 -311.0 -192.9 -194.3  -175.3
balance
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign  234.4   222.8    313.9  246.5  195.7   134.0  138.0  190.1  200.8   217.9
direct
investment
Long-term loans (net)   ..      ..       ..     ..     ..     ..     ..
Official             189.9  -45.2     70.0    7.8 -110.6  -202.1 -278.4 -299.5 -325.1  -280.5
Private               0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Other capital (net,    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
including
errors and omissions)
Change inreservesd  -221.6   -38.5    -82.1    1.5  116.9   187.5  119.1   20.0   -9.6   -48.3
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of  11.6%  6.6%    6.8%   6.4%   8.2%    6.7%   7.1%   6.5%    7.0%   7.4%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth
rates
(YR87 prices)
Merchandise exports   4.7%  22.5%    10.3%   0.6%   2.4%   -5.8%  -1.3%   1.0%    5.5%   5.4%
(FOB)
Primary              9.0%  30.9%     1.6%   -9.1%  8.5%    6.3%   1.5%   1.6%    1.6%   1.3%
Manufactures         1.2%  11.5%     2.0%   6.0%   7.1%    7.1%   3.6%   4.6%   4.9%    5.4%
Merchandise imports  25.0%  -2.6%    10.6%   5.2%  -1.5%   -0.5%  -3.3%   0.5%    5.6%   5.5%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at
current
market prices)e
Current revenues      20.7   20.5      20.1   19.1   17.0    16.8   17.2   18.2   18.2    17.6
Current expenditures  24.5    22.5     22.1   21.2   19.8    18.1   16.6   18.8   18.2    18.0
(Continued)



Annex 6
Cote d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                     Page 3 of 3
Cote d'Ivoire - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                        Est.            Proj.
Indicator          1995    1996     1997     1998   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Current account          -0.9    -5.3      -4.2    -1.8   -2.7     -2.8    -2.5    -1.7    -1.2   -0.8
surplus (+)
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure       5.1     4.9       5.4     6.0    4.2      2.8     3.2     3.9     3.8    4.0
Foreign financing         4.4     3.3       1.5     1.3    0.7      4.7     4.9    -5.6     0.2   -0.2
Monetary
indicators
M2/GDP (at current       24.4    22.3      22.7    21.9   21.5     21.8   22.1    22.5    22.6    23.0
market
prices)
Growth of M2(%)           1.6     7.2       6.1    -3.1    0.4     -0.1     2.7     2.7     3.3     3.4
Private sector credit growth /    2.2      14.8     3.8   -8.4      3.2     6.2     7.8     8.9     8.9
totalcreditgrowth                 0.7      10.2     7.5    5.1     -2.2    -5.5     3.4     3.8     2.1
(%)
Price indices( YR87
=100)
Merchandise export      128.1   103.9      99.9   101.8   95.7     74.8   69.1    68.8     70.5    72.1
price
index
Merchandise import      132.7   128.7     124.6   129.5  119.1    101.0    92.7    90.7    92.6    94.7
price
index
Merchandise terms of     75.4    77.7      80.3    77.2   83.9     77.4   107.8   108.0   108.5   108.7
trade
index
Real exchange rate       70.7    70.7      69.5    74.1   72.7     69.4    70.0    70.6    70.9    71.2
(US$/LCU)'
Real interest rates
Consumer price          7.7%    3.5%      5.2%    2.0%   0.7%     3.6%    3.1%    3.0%    3.0%    2.7%
index
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator           11.0%    5.0%      4.2%    5.2%   0.9%    -0.1%    2.1%    2.3%    2.0%    2.2%
(% growth rate)
a.  If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnote indicating "Data-YR" fact should be added.
b.  "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequitted transfers excluding official capital grants.
d.  Includes use of IMF resources
e.  Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f.  "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.






Annex 7
Cote d'Ivoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                   Page 1 of ]
Cote d'Ivoire Social Indicators
Latest single year              Same regionhlncome group
Sub-Saharan           Low-
1970-76       1980-85    1993-99             Africa        Income
POPULATION
Total populabon, mid-year (millions)                 6.8           9.9       15.5             642.8         2,417.1
Growth rate (% annual average for period)                        3.7        2.9               2.6             1.9
Urban populabon (% of population)                   32.1         37.5        45.8              33.8            31.4
Total ferblity rate (births per woman)               7.4           7.1        4.9               5.3             3.7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                              ..
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index                               ..
INCOME
GNI per capita (USS)                                570       .   640         670               490            420
Consumer price index (1995=100)                      18            51         112               131             138
Food price index (1995=1 00)                          ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                            ..           ..        36.7
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                       ..         7.1
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                       ..       44.3
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                   ..           ..         1.2               1.7             1.2
Education (% of GNI)                               6.3           7.2        5.0               4.1             3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)              ..           7.3
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                               ..            ..         55
Male                                              ..           ..          63
Female                                            ..           ..         47
Access to an Improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                               ..           20          77                55              76
Urban                                             ..           30          90                82             88
Rural                                             ..           10         65                 41             70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                             ..           ..          59                57             64
DPT                                                 ..           25          60                59              70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                   .            ..         24
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                              47            51          46                47              59
Male                                             45            49          46                46              58
Female                                           49            52          47                48              60
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live births)                    119           101         111                92              77
Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                   240           170         180               161             116
Adult (1 -59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                     526           421         524               499             288
Female (per 1,000 populabon)                    428           346         497               453             258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                   .,            .,        600
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)           ,,           13          47
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rabos exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data. Latest year for access to improved water
source data is 2000.
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank






Annex 8
Cote d'lvoire: Economic Recovery Credit                                                                                                                             Page I of I
Cote d'lvoire
Operations Portfolio (IBRDIIDA and Grants)
As Of Date 04J02/2002
Closed Projects    74
IBRDlDA
Total Disbursed (Active)  277.90
of which has been  0.00
repaid
Total Disbursed (Closed)  3,681.00
of which has been  2,323.80
repaid
Total Disbursed (Active +  3,958.90
Closed)
of which has been  2,323.80
repaid
Total Undisbursed (Adive)  248.32
Total Undisbursed (Closed)  0.00
Total Undisbused (Acive +  248.32
Closed)
Acdvo Prolects                                                                                                                                      Difference
Lag PSR                                                                                             Expected and
Supervision Rating                       Orlainal Amount In US# Millions                         Disbu=emcnts#
Project ID              ProjectName         Deveobment Imomanta         Fiscal year        IBRD           IDA      GRANT         Cancel. Undlsb.    Orig.    Frm
2th!fgLm    onProorg g                                                                                        RVfd
P055073                 ADULT LITERACY     S                  S           2000                              5                                4.3     3.2
(LIL)
P037588                 AGRIC. SVCS. 11    U                  U           1999                             50                               39.2    42.4
P001184                 CI PRIVATE         S                  S           1995                           79.7                               12.2    23.4    11.1
ELECTRICITY
P066353                 DISTANCE LEARNING S                   S           2000                              2                                1.9      1.6
- LIL
P035655                 EDUC. & TRG        U                  U           1998                           53.3                               46.7    41.8
SUPPORT
P037581                 EXPORT             S                  S           1995                            5.8                                2.1       3     3.1
PROMOTION AND
P001214                INTEG HLTH SERV     S                  S           1996                             40                        9.2    13.5    26.7       2
DEVP
P001186                 LABOR FORCE        S                  S           1994                             17                                1.9     2.6     2.6
TRAINING
P037575                 MUNICIPAL          U                  U           1995                             40                               14.6    18.9
SUPPORT
P043736                 PSO TA             U                  U           1998                             12                                9.4     9.8
P001194                 RURALLAND          S                  S           1997                             41                               26.3     16.3
(PNGTER)
p001177                 TRANSP SECTOR      U                  U           1998                          238.8                               76.2    26.3     3.6
ADJ
Overall reslt                                                             Resulh                        584.6                        9.2   248.3     216    22.3



