Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  3656  IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 13, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER  3656 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 14, 
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the recovery 
Page  2
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches 
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
Page  3
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ARCC” means 
Autorité de Régulation du Secteur Café/Cacao, 
an agency 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 2000-651 dated October 10, 2000 of the 
Borrower;
(b)
 “BCC” means 
Bourse du Café et du Cacao
, an agency established and operating 
pursuant to Decree No. 2001-667 dated July 25, 2001 of the Borrower;
(c)
“Budgetary Allocations” means allocations for expenditures to be financed out 
of the Borrower’s own internal resources;
(d)
“CAA” means “
Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
”, a public enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 98-11 dated January 14, 1998 of the Borrower ;
(e)
“CFAF” or “CFA Franc” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
“CIDT-Nouvelle
” means 
Compagnie Ivoirienne de Développement des 
Textiles”, 
a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 74-282 dated 
June 20, 1974 and Decree No. 2000-616  dated August 23, 2000 of the Borrower;
(g)
“COGES” means 
Comité de Gestion, 
an administrative entity in charge of the 
management of a health or education facility under the tutelage of the Borrower’s Ministries of 
Health and Education;
(h)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(i)
“Euro” means the currency of the French Republic;
(j)
“FDPCC” means 
Fonds de Développement des Producteurs de Café et Cacao
, a 
fund established and managed in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 2001-512 dated 
August 28, 2001 of the Borrower; 
(k)
“First Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit to be released by the Association on or after the Effective Date;
(l)
“FRC” means
 Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle;
(m)
“IEP”
means
 Inspection d’Enseignement Primaire;
(n)
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in paragraph (A) of 
the Preamble to this Agreement; 
Page  4
(o)
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit to be released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred 
to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met;
(p)
“Third Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit to be released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred 
to in Section 2.02 (e) of the Agreement have been met; and
(q)
“Tranche” means either the First Tranche, the Second Tranche, or the Third 
Tranche.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred and sixty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 160,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit 
Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 80,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the 
Association;  and
Page  5
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Part A to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 128,200,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the 
Association; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Part B to this Agreement have 
been taken.
(f)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (d) or 
(e) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
Page  6
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and 
December 15 commencing June 15, 2012, and ending December 15, 2041.  Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on December 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  7
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B. P. V. 163
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN               225 20 20 0856
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
Page  9
By
/s/
Pascal Kokora
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Mamadou Dia
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
Page  10
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association); 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
Page  11
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) and (e) of this Agreement
A.
Second Tranche
1.
The Borrower has adopted a revised regulatory framework for cocoa and coffee 
marketing based on competition and excluding any administrative allocations or quotas, unless as 
otherwise agreed upon with the Association, all as further referred to in paragraph 13 of the LDP.
2.
BCC/FRC have implemented a competitive marketing strategy for the 2002/2003 cocoa 
and coffee crops, excluding any administrative allocations or quotas, unless as otherwise agreed 
upon with the Association, all as further referred to in paragraph 17 of the LDP.
3.
ARCC, BCC and FDPCC have: (a) carried out the agreed  recommendations of the audit 
of their activities, procedures and financial statements; (b) adopted levels of non-tax levies for 
cocoa and coffee in the crop year 2002/2003 on the basis of recommendations of the said audit; 
and  (c) approved their annual programs and budgets for the crop year 2002/2003, all as agreed 
upon with the Association and as referred to in paragraph 19 of the LDP.
4.
(a) The Borrower’s Ministries of Education and Health have signed agreements with the 
selected education and  health sector COGES; and (b) the said COGES have opened bank 
accounts and at least 60% of the budget allocated for activities of the aforementioned COGES 
have been deposited in said accounts as referred to in paragraph 24 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has: (a) opened to competition the publishing and editing of text books for 
primary education; and (b) supplied IEPs in 43 selected school districts with their respective 
stocks of free textbooks, all as referred to in paragraph 24 of the LDP.
6.
The Borrower has submitted to the National Assembly the draft laws on Public 
Procurement and on the establishment of the 
Chambre des Comptes
, all as referred to in 
paragraph 37 of the LDP.
B.
Third Tranche
1.
The Borrower has adopted an institutional and regulatory framework to ensure 
competition at all levels in the cotton chain  as referred to in paragraph 20 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has adopted and published the revised Fiscal Procedures Manual, as 
referred to in paragraph 21 of the LDP.
Page  12
3.
The Borrower has: (a) completed the study of the system for procuring and distributing 
essential drugs for the public sector, and has adopted an action plan based on the results of the 
said study to improve the procurement of essential drugs for the public sector; and (b) has 
provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that essential drugs for the public sector have 
been procured in a manner consistent with modalities set forth in the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for improving its efficiency, as referred to in paragraph 26 of the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has submitted to the National Assembly the draft 
Lois de Règlement
(including the report related thereto issued by the 
Chambre des Comptes
 of the Supreme Court of 
the Borrower) for  the 2001 budget, as referred to in paragraph 37 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has taken all measures required on its part to offer 
CIDT-Nouvelle
 for sale 
to willing buyers.
6.
The Borrower has: (a) selected a qualified technical partner for CAA; and (b) taken all 
measures required on its part to offer for sale to willing buyers at least 51 percent of the shares 
held by the Borrower in the capital stock of CAA.
