Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,<4g A/           yo
Report No. P-4019-YU
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$125.O MILLION
TO THE
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERZEGOVINE-SARAJEVO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVLA
FOR THE
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
April 8, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Calendar 1984 1/    February 1985 1/
UStl                    Dinar 152.822       Dinar 233.184
Dinar 1                UStO.0065            US$O.0042
Dinars 1,000,000       US$7,160.47          US$4,200
Exchange Rate l'sed in Staff Appraisal Report:  US$l = 212 Dinars (January 1985)
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mW      =     Megawatt (thousand kilowatts - KW)
kWh     =     Kilowatt hours (- 860.42 kcal)
GWh     =     Gigawatt hours (million kilowatt hours)
TWh     =     Terawatt hours (thousand GWh)
kcals   =     Kilocalories (1 kcal = 3.97 Btu)
m       =     Meter (3.281 feet)
km            Kilometer (0.62 miles)
ton     =     Tonne (1.1 short ton)
kV      =     Kilovolt (1,000 volt)
Hz      =     Herz (cycle/second)
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                         Basic Organization of Associated Labor
BKI                          Boris Kidric Institute of Nuclear Sciences - Vinca
COAL                         Composite Organization of Associated Labor
COt                          Community of Interest
EMS                          Energy Management System
EPBIH                        Elektroprivreda Bosne I Hercegovine-Sarajevo (Borrower)
FCEI                         Federal Committee for Energy and Industry
FCP                          Federal Community for Pricing
FEC                          Federal Executive Council
HED                          Hidroelektrane na Drini
IAEA                         International Atomic Energy Agency - Vienna
ICB                          International Competitive Bidding
JUGEL                        Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
LRMC                         Long-Run Marginal Cost
OUNP                         Association of Oil and Gas Producers
OURU                         Association of Coal Producers
RAP                          Republics and Provinces
RPCP                         Republic/Province Community for Pricing
SDK                          Social Accouncing Service
SIZEL                        Self-Managing Community of Interest
SMA                          Self-Management Agreement
WOAL                         Work Organization of Associated Labour
1/ Period average.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
Visegrad Hydroelectric Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Elektoprivreda Bosne i Herzegovine-Sarajevo, the
electric power organization of the Socialist
Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Guarantor:                Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:                    t125 million equivalent, including interest during
construction.
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years, including three years of
grace, at the standard variable rate.
Project Objectives        The project's major objectives are to assist in
and Description:         (i) developing indigenous renewable energy
resources, thus reducing dependence on imported
oil; and (ii) strengthening the Borrower's
financial management through the establishment of
an improved accounting system and a comprehensive
training program. Towards these ends, the project
would include: (a) the construction of a concrete
gravity dam across the Drina river; (b) the
installation of three hydro turbine-generator units
each of 105-MW , with inlet and outlet structures;
'c) the construction of a 400-kV step-up
transformer bank and a transmission line to connect
the plant to the national power grid; (d) technical
assistance in construction supervision; and (e)
training in financial management. A major project
risk relates to possible delays in implementation
due to the lack of local funds, but the safeguards
built into the project to ensure adequate timely
financing would help minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:
Local         Foreign       Total
…(u--*--(USi Million)- ----
Main civil works                       24.4             8.2        32.6
Ancillary works                        35.7             1.9        37.6
Cement                                  2.6            13.8        16.4
Steel                                   3.0            15.5        18.5
Construction Material                   1.4             7.1         8.5
Hydro-mechanical equipment              4.2            12.3        16.5
Electro-mechanical equipment            7.8           38.7         46.5
Transmission line                       0.2             0.5         0.7
Training                                0.1             0.1         0.2
Engineering                             6.3             -           6.3
Total Base Cost                   85.7            98.1        183.8
Physical contingencies                 11.1             9.9        21.0
Price contingencies                    18.8           16.0         34.8
Total Project Cost               115.6           124.0        239.6
Interest during
construction                          17.3           27.4         44.7
Total financing required         132.9           151.4 1/    284.3
Financing elan:
Internal resources                     41.0            -           41.0
lBRD                                   -             125.0        125.0
Local bank loans                        4.2            -            4.2
Federal Funds                           6.0            -            6.0
Yearly Appropriations                 108.1            -          108.1
Total                            159.3           125.0        284.3
Estimated disbursements
FY86    FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90
-----------       millio------
Annual                               46.0    36.0      24.0     17.0       2.0
Cumulative                          46.0    82.0    106.0    123.0    125.0
Rate of return: lOZ on the time-slice of the country-wide power investment
program.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5369-YU, dated April 10, 1985.
1/ Includes about USt26.4 million indirect foreign cost and financing.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERZEGOVINE-SARAJEVO WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Elektroprivreda Bosne I Herzegovine-Sarajevo (EPBIH), with the
guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent
of US$125 million to finance the Visegrad Hydroelectric Project in the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report, Yugoslavia:
Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (No. 3954-YU), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Updating
economic missions visited Yugoslavia in the context of Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) programs and this section reflects their findings. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, public
institutions and enterprises, plays the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for approximately 85% of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and employs over half the total labor force. The private sector
consists predominantly of peasant farms and small enterprises.
Decision-making at all levels is governed by the principle of workers'
self-management, involving a unique set of institutions and instruments of
economic policy. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions
has increasingly shifted from the Federal level to the Republics, Autonomous
Provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over production decisions has been increased by a restructuring of all
*          economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units producing a marketable
output.
4.        In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called Social
Compacts and Self-Management Agreements, enables the participation of all
economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining
decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. These instruments
are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal measures,
particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.



- 2 -
5.        The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including government
bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into mediumrterm
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant level
are permitted to intervene, but onily on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia in the 1960s and 1970s was
impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5.5% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout
the period, above 30% in most years. With population growth at about 1% per
annum, real per capita income more than doubled over this period. The past
two decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into
the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise trade grew by around 7%
per annum in real terms. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial market economies showed increasing weakness during the 1970s,
particularly after 1973.
7.        While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia, Montenegro, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, are officially
designated as less-developed regions (LDRs). The LDRs account for 37Z of
population and 22% of output. The per capita output in these regions account
for only 60% of the national average. The ratio of per capita output between
the most-developed region in the country, Slovenia, and the least-developed,
Kosovo, is about 7 to 1 (1982). These disparities reflect several factors;
notably the greater incidence of low productivity of agriculture in the LDRs,
their higher dependency ratios, and their higher population growth rates.
Since 1965, concessional investment credits have been granted to the LDRs
through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Regions (FND) and, together with supplementary resources for social
sector expenditures from the Federal budget, these resources account for
about 10% of the social product of the LDRs.
8.        Since 1965, employment in the social sector has increased by around
3.1% per annum. Despite this very good record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the mocern (mainly social) and the
traditional (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These
differentials have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973, there
were about 1.1 million Yugoslavs working abroad. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reversed, and returning emigrants have added to the pressure



on the social sector to create new jobs. Unemployment rates have risen
rapidly from about 7% in 197]. to over 12% in 1982.1/ The incidence of
unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged from
2% in Slovenia to 29% in Kosovo.
Effectiveness of Public Policies
9.        Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult economic
situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic liberalization in
1965: rising debt service payments, sluggish domestic output, high level of
inflation, and more difficult access to international commercial bank
credit. The severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems, however, also
reflects structural deficiencies in the pattern of its development which
became increasingly apparent in the seventies. Yugoslavia's economy until
the late 1970s was marked by high rates of economic growth, impressive
increases in savings and investment and rapid growth in income per capita and
employment. This performance, however, was characterized, on the one hand,
by rigidities and distortions in prices and, on the other hand, by a
widespread socialization of losses incurred by inefficient enterprises. The
policy framework allowed the development of production oriented towards
domestic markets, and led to high capital and energy intensities. Liquidity
in the international capital markets allowed for substantial foreign capital
inflows, and the recovery of the OECD countries from the first oil price
increase, to a limited extent, sustained exports but more importantly allowed
a continuation of the inflow of workers' remittances.
10.       Yugoslavia initially absorbed the second oil price shock through
additional borrowing and managed thereby to cushion its effects. This
adjustment implied a rapidly increasing foreign debt. With the subsequent
increases in world interest rates and the recession in OECD countries, the
servicing of the debt became a substantially heavier burden. In turn, tL.
events in Latin America and in Poland created a reluctance in international
capital markets to provide additional funds. As a result, the balance of
payments constraint became critical.
11.       In 1980 Yugoslavia launched a program of adjustments to cope with
the short-term liquidity crisis and to allow the economy to move to a sound
and sustainable growth path. The Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization
articulated and consolidated the envisaged changes. The thrust of this
program is towards increased domestic resource mobilization and an efficient
economic resource allocation within the context of the basic objectives of
self-management relations in Yugoslavia. The Long-Term Stabilization Program
is conceived and being implemented in two phases: the first ending in 1985
and the second starting with the 1986-90 Plan. The first phase, supported in
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job-seekers to the total resident labor force was about 9% in
]982.



- 4 -
particular by the IMF and IBRD through a standby agreement and SAL I, has
largely achieved the short-run stabilization of the economy with the major
exception of inflation, the control of which remains an important objective
of the Government. (para. 16).
12.       A number of measures were taken by the Government over the course
of the last two years to overcome the short-term liquidity problems of the
economy. Restrictive monetary and fiscal policies were used to control the
rise in aggregate demand and to restrict "non-productive" investments.
Moreover, a more realistic exchange rate policy was adopted to encourage
exports and curb imports. These policies were successful in converting a
large current account deficit in 1979 to a small surplus in 1983 and a more
substantial one in 1984 (para. 15). Apart from demand management policies,
this performance reflects a substantial realignment of the real exchange rate
in 1983, with the dinar depreciating approximately 25X against a basket of
currencies over the course of the year.
13.       During the last two years, in addition to short-term policies,
first steps towards a longer-term reform were taken. A program of price
liberalization, which seeks to reduce the degree of government intervention
in price formation, is underway. Although a partial reform of the foreign
exchange allocation system has been initiated, further measures will be
required to ensure the effective functioning of a unified foreign exchange
market. Interest rates on saving deposits have been progressively adjusted
with a view to the attainment of positive real interest rates by the first
half of 1985, while floor real lending rates should become positive over the
coming two to four years. A new credit and banking law has been recently
introduced and a number of laws have been passed to penalize loss-making and
illiquid enterprises and existing laws on bankruptcy are increasingly being
enforced. In the field of investment, a nationwide social compact with a
specific set of uniform investment criteria to be used in project selection
is being finalized and efforts to ensure its implementation are underway.
Significant adjustmeTnts have been made to tariffs in power and transport to
reflect inflationary cost increases and steps have been taken to prepare
least-cost power generation programs. In short, the Government intends to
ensure that the emergence of a less binding financial constraint does not
lead again to a substantial misallocation of resources jeopardizing the
long-run stabilization program.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       In recent years, Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly.
Between 1980-82, the economy grew by 1.4% per annum. The rate of growth of
output declined by about 1.3% in 1983 and a modest recovery is estimated for
1984. The slowdown in growth is partly a result of the controls on domestic
demand, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manufacturing production has been particularly affected. There have been
marked fluctuations in agricultural output. Fixed investment has also fallen
by more than 8% per year since 1980. Despite these slowdowns, Yugoslavia has
been able to continue creating jobs in the social sector. Social sector



employment increased by 2.6X between 1980-83 and is estimated to have grown
by 2Z in 1984. Employment growth has been most rapid in the LDR, where the
incidence of unemployment is more severe.
15.        As a result of its stabilization efforts, Yugoslavia succeeded in
bringing the current account of its balance of payments from a deficit of
$3.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated surplus of over $50O million in 1984.
Over the same period, the current account with the convertible area moved
from a deficit of t3.3 billion to an estimated surplus of $860 million.
Import levels have been cut such that the value of merchandise imports in
1984 was 14% below its 1980 level. Export trends were erratic over the
period, both in the aggregate and between market areas with, however, a
strong showing in exports to the convertible area in 1983 and 1984.
16.       One of the major goals of the Government's stabilization program
has been to reduce the rate of inflation. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, however, inflationary pressures have
continued. In 1980 and 1981, inflation accelerated to 30% and 38%
respectively. In an effort to bring it under control, the authorities
introduced temporary price ceilings on a wide range of goods in July 1982.
This policy, however, met with only limited success. Retail prices increased
by 30% in 1982, and by over 58% in 1983. As a result, a temporary price
freeze was reimposed at the end of 1983. Together with a movement towards an
increased liberalization of prices, the price freeze was lifted at the
beginning of May 1984 as part of the overall set of measures agreed upon with
the IMF under the Standby Arrangement of 1984. As part of the price
liberalization effort in January 1985, a new law on prices went into effect
which, among other things, reduces state intervention in price formation.
The persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
efforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural production
and rationalize energy use have all put upward pressure on the price level.
The increase in international prices since 1979, the cumulative effects of
the substantial depreciation of the dinar, and the significant increase in
interest rates have also put considerable pressure on domestic production
costs. Nominal personal income growth has also proved difficult to control,
although there have been significant reductions in real personal incomes
totalling nearly 35% between 1980 and 1984.
17.       Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in prevailing
interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from t0.8 billion in
1979 to t2.0 billion in 1981 and an estimated $2.2 billion in 1984. While
there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts, the
international commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious position
toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to adverse
developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity problems
experienced by some Yugoslav banks. However, following the successful



- 6 -
conclusion of three debt restructuring exercises (para.21), the international
commercial banks are expected to slowly return to limited financial
transactions with Yugoslavia, some of which may be in the form of cofinancing
with the Bank.
Medium-Term Prospects
18.       Yugoslavia is now in the process of preparation of the next five
year plan (1986-90). Draft guidelines have been issued which envisage
reforms in a wide range of areas. Foremost among these are the system of
prices, the fiscal system, the system of foreign exchange allocation, and the
financial system. These reforms support the development strategy outlined
under the Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (para. 11). In the
area of prices, the emphasis is on achieving efficiency in resource
allocation through an increased role of markets, the prevention of
distortions and the elimination of monopolistic tendencies. In the area of
fiscal policy, a uniformity of fiscal policy across the country would be
sought given that decisions on most taxes and expenditures rest with the
regions. As regards the foreign exchange allocation system, the intention is
to liberalize the circulation of foreign exchange resources and create
conditions for gradually achieving the free convertibility of the dinar. As
regards the financial system, the objective is to increase mobilization and
efficient reallocation of financial resources. Many of these reforms have
already been initiated (para 13); others are under consideration.
19.       The macroeconomic framework is formulated around 4% growth of
output with industrial and agricultural growth rates of 5% and 3%,
respectively. The growth rate of output would be led by an average annual
increase in exports of 5.5% while imports would grow at a lower rate of
4.5%. The above performance would be accompanied by a 2% growth in social
sector employment mainly in labor intensive activities and an average
increase in labor productivity between 2% and 3%. This scenario is expected
to allow the reduction of foreign debt by $3 billion by 1990 and to bring the
debt service ratio to 25% by the end of this decade.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Before 1980, about three-quarters of the debt contracted by
Yugoslavia was provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this was in the form of suppliers' credits, although
financial credits from commercial banks were also of importance. In response
both to unsettled conditions in international capital markets and to the
balance of payments difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, there was a significant
decline in commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia after 1980.  Gross
medium- and long-term capital inflows declined sharply from 14.6 billion in
1980 to t2.3 billion in 1982 before reaching t3.7 billion in 1983. Total
medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about
kl8 billion at the end of 1983, while short-term debt stood at about $l.l
billion. During 1983, there was a substantial decline in foreign exchange
reserves, which at the end of the year amounted to kl.6 billion, or roughly



equivalent to one month of imports of goods and services. Taking account of
gross workers' remittances, the debt-service ratio averaged 16% between 1976
and 1981, while it averaged 19% over the same period for convertible currency
loans. In 1983, the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 29%,
reflecting the increase in interest payments on floating rate debt and the
decline in exports. Similarly, the debt service ratio on convertible
currency debt rose to 40% in the same year.
21.       In light of the depleted reserves position, the thin pipeline of
financial credits, the insufficient stocks of imports, the liquidity problems
encountered by some Yugoslav banks since 1982 and the consequent
unwillingness of commercial lenders to maintain their exposure on a voluntary
basis, a major multipartite financing effort involving certain OECD
countries, international commercial banks and the Bank for International
Settlements was launched in early 1983 to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining
orderly debt repayment. Agreement was reached on a foreign assistance
package amounting to about t4 billion in gross medium- and long-term
commitments and in the deferment of maturities on short-term debt. A similar
exercise on a smaller scale was concluded for 1984. Moreover, in December
1984, commercial banks agreed in principle on another round of multi-year
rescheduling for 1985. Discussions have also been substantially concluded
between the Government and the IMF for another Standby Arrangement in early
1985.    While Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain difficult in the
near-term, both the aggregate and the convertible currency debt service
ratios are expected to decline somewhat over the next few years. Given its
past debt servicing record, pragmatism, and demonstrated capacity to
implement firm stabilization policies, Yugoslavia is considered creditworthy
for additional Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
22.       The proposed :oan would be the 86th loan made to Yugoslavia by the
Bank bringing the total to about t4,241.4 million, net of cancellations.
Approximately 30% (t1,232.5 million) of the total has been for 22 loans for
the transport sector: 12 for highways, 8 for railways, and 2 for ports. Loans
totalling about t569.2 million (16%) were made for the energy sector, of
which seven were for power projects; the proposed loan would be the eighth
loan for that subsector. In addition to the power loans, one
loan each was made for a natural gas and an oil pipeline. To help increase
productivity and production, Bank lending in recent years, has increasingly
focused on the agriculture sector where twenty loans totalling about tl,183.4
million (27% of the total) have been made. Twenty-one loans, amounting to
about $531.8 million (12% of the total) have also been made for industry with
the aim of augmenting the overall value added and opportunities for
employment. Other loans made to Yugoslavia include six for water supply and
sewerage; two multipurpose loans; two for tourism and one each for air
pollution control, telecommunications, and structural adjustment.
23.       Due to a shortage of local funds, Yugoslavia's disbursement
performance deteriorated somewhat in 1981. Following a subsequent
implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with borrowers, project



- 8 -
execution accelerated. To further expedite the utilization of Bank loan
proceeds as well as to allow for increased Bank financial participation,
disbursement percentages were increased under the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP), for the following ongoing projects; Metohija I Multipurpose
(Loan 1360-YU), Tenth and Eleventh Highway (Loans 1678-YU and 1819-YU
respectively), Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation-Port of Bar (Loan
1768-YU), Morava II (Loan 1951-YU), and Serbia Regional development (Loan
2307-YU). In the case of the latter two projects, revolving funds were also
established.  Yugoslavia's performance now compares favorably with Bank-wide
averages. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loan!; and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1984.
24.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) expand exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) enhance the effectiveness of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
financial resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and
(iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDRs. Not every Bank operation
can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the LDRs,
but a basic thrust of tne Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be
toward their development. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system
(paras. 3-5), however, the process of evolving acceptable solutions to policy
problems is cumbersome. As a result, the Bank has concentrated its lending
operations in areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is
expected to be greatest. Accordingly, a shift to more program, sector, and
SAP operations, including the FY83 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Loan
2326-YU), has occurred to help consolidate and strengthen policy and
institutional changes critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural
development, while at the same time assisting the Government to overcome its
immediate foreign exchange needs. In August 1984, following a report
distributed to the Executive Directors (Sec M84-766) regarding progress made
under the structural adjustment program, the second SAL tranche, in the
amount of t100 million, was released. In addition to SAL, other SAP lending
to Yugoslavia includes a supplemental loan for the Middle Neretva Project
(Loan 1561-1-YU) and the FY84 Fertilizer Sector Loan.
25.       Future Bank lending strategy is geared to: (a) concentrate on those
sectors and projects which provide maximum economic benefits; (b) take into
account the current economic situation and the availability of resources; and
(c) ensure a continued strong policy and institutional impact where needed.
To that end, Bank support is envisaged for projects in the agriculture,
energy/power, and industry sectors.
26.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped attract additional sources of credit through cofinancing arrangements
and the establishment of new banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank
intends to continue its emphasis on increased cofinancing, recognizing,
however, the commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia faces. Until this
problem is overcome, the Bank is likely to remain one of the principal
sources of long-term external capital.



- 9 -
27.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1982 amounted to about 10.5% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain
fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service
was 6.6% in 1982 and is projected to be about 10% by 1986.
28.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970.  Since then, it
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of September 30, 1984, its
portfolio amounted to *358.3 million gross and t165.6 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectires of IFC in Yugoslavia are
to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c)
foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in
addition to IFC's own funds.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR
The Energy Sector
29.       Energy Resources.  Yugoslavia's indigenous energy resources include
hydropower, lignite, coal, oil and gas, and uranium. Shale oil deposits,
while extensive, are not economically exploitable with current technology;
the proven economically recoverable reserves are estimated at 70 million
tons. Lignite reserves are estimated at about 13,000 million tons (2,600
million tons oil equivalent (mtoe)), but are generally of such low quality
that they can be developed only in open pit mining operations in conjunction
with mine-mouth power plants. Proven economically recoverable reserves of
hard coal are about 61 million tons (40 mtoe); proven reserves of brown coal
are about 1,278 tons (437 mtoe), of which 30% is suitable for open pit
mining. Economically viable hydropower potential is estimated at about 55
TWh, of which 27 TWh (49%) has alreadv been developed, with another 3.4 TWh
(6%) to be developed by 1990. Per capita energy consumption in Yugoslavia
for 1982, was 1.55 toe, about 30% higher than the average for middle income
countries. Total energy consumption was about 36 mtoe of primary energy
about 60% of which was produced domestically. This higher level is to be
expected, since the winter climate in Yugoslavia is much harsher than that of
most middle income countries.
30.       Sector Development Strategy: In March 1983, the Federal Assembly
adopted an economic program for restructuring the economy, prepared by the
Stabilization Commission following the balance of payments crisis in 1979
(paras. 11-12). Since the energy sector was considered critical to
structural adjustment, the Stabilization Commission formulated a long-term
strategy for its development. This strategy has two major element-.: first,
expanding production from domestic energy Lesources, particularly lignite,
coal, hydroelectricity and petroleum; and second, improving the efficiency of
energy consumption, distribution and transformation through demand management
measures, mainly reforms in pricing. The Bank has reviewed the Government's
strategy in the report "Constraints and Prospects for Restructuring the



- 10 -
Energy Sector" (Report 4797-YU, May 1984) which is expected to be distributed
to the Executive Directors shortly. This report endorses the Government's
strategy and makes specific recommendations for the development of indigenous
energy resources, rationalization of investment programs to meet national
objectives, changing the basis and levels of energy prices and raising energy
efficiency. Some important positive steps have already been taken in the
areas of pricing and investment planning. In addition to furthering the
Government's structural adjustment objectives, the strategy outlined for the
energy sector is, itself, dependent on general policies for structural
adjustment, especially measures aimed at improving financial discipline and
the allocation of foreign exchange.
31.       Organization of the Energy Sector:  In keeping with the overall
decentralization of economic management, the role of the Federal Government
in the planning and operation of the sector is limited to formulating broad
national guidelines. Detailed plans for implementing specific aspects of the
energy policy guidelines are left to the initiative of the Republics and
Provinces (RAP) and individual enterprises which are pivotal in formulating
and implementing development plans. The Chambers of Economy,
non-governmental institutions representing all economic enterprises, play a
coordinating and consultative role. "Communities of Interest," (COIs) which
are organizations of producers and users, play a central role in setting
prices equitable to producers and consumers, and in mobilizing and allocating
resources for investments.
32.       Three agencies are concerned with the energy sector at the Federal
level: the Federal Committee for Energy and Industry (FCEI) is responsible
for harmonizing energy plans of the Republics and Provinces, and for
integrating plans for the energy sector and industry; the Federal Institute
for Social Planning is responsible for formulating national economic plans;
and the Federal Community for Pricing (FCP), created in 1981, for setting
guidelines for pricing, including those for imported coal, oil and gas. Each
Republic and Province has its own Committee for Energy and Industry,
Institute for Social Planning and Community for Pricing (RPCP). RPCPs were
until recently responsible for setting price guidelines for domestically
produced natural gas, coal and lignite, and electricity. The national
associations for the three sub-sectors are: the Union of Yugoslav Electric
Power Industry (JUGEL), whose primary function is to coordinate the operation
and development of the Yugoslav power system as a single technologically
integrated system (paras. 39-41); the Association of Oil and Gas Producers,
which primarily coordinates the activities and investments of its members
with other sectors of the economy; and the General Association of Yugoslav
Coal Mines, primarily concerned with improving the operation of coal mines,
increasing productivity of labor and promoting optimal capacity utilization
of existing mines.
33.       Planning and Financing.  Due to the decentralized nature of
Yugoslavia, sector programs are optimized at the level of each RAP rather
than for Yugoslavia as a whole. All power sector investments of any
significance, and the corresponding sources of finance, have to be approved



- 11 -
by the regional COle (producer and consumer communities of interest) and
Republican/Provincial governments, both as individual projects and as part of
the annual and five-year planning process.  The national plan, however, is a
summation of RAP least cost programs which does not necessarily correspond to
the least cost trogram from a national point of view (para. 40)   In an
effort to improve the coordination of power sector planning, the Federal
Government agreed under SAL I to formulate a core power investment program
for 1983-85. It has formulated draft guidelines for the 1986-90 Five-Year
Plan designed to establish a common planning of production and consumption of
energy, and of construction of energy facilities. Towards the implementation
of these guidelines, the Yugoslav Authorities propose to initiate two Social
Compacts which would be signed by all RAPs: one covering the long-term
development up to the end of the century, and a second focusing on the
medium-term, 1986-90. These Compacts are expected to provide the general
framework within which individual projects would be planned. JUGEL is also
revising the least cost power generation program for the national system
using methodology developed by the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). Meanwhile, with a view to facilitating the development of
hydroelectric resources on a rational basis, the electricity organizations in
the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro have reached a
Self-Management Agreement (SMA) on the development of the Drina and Moraca
Rivers which contain Yugoslavia's best hydroelectric potential. A similar
Self-Management Agreement is expected to be signed by all the power
organizations for developing lignite resources in Kosovo. These initiatives
represent a major step towards coordinating energy sector investments, and
joint financing of priority investments in the power subsector.
34.       Financial constraints have led to delays in the implementation of
energy projects, and have increased Yugoslavia's dependence on imported
energy. The absence of a mechanism for establishing priorities and an
unrealistically large investment program for energy have further resulted in
the dissipation of resources. As indicated above, there has been some
progress made in this area, particularly with regard to the power subsector.
Under the Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU) annual reviews with
the Bank on the short- and mediur-term investment plans for power generation
and transmission and the distribution of electricity are to be carried out to
ensure, for example, the availability of necessary foreign exchange and local
funds for priority projects.
35.       Energy Pricing.  There has been a substantial realignment of energy
prices to economic levels. Domestic prices of petroleum products are, on
average, higher than international prices; solid fuels, electricity, and
domestically produced natural gas prices are, however, below their respective
economic costs. As part of improved demand management policies, the
authorities are adjusting petroleum prices quarterly to compensate for the
depreciation of the dinar and the levels of international prices.   In line
with understandings reached under SAL I, the Government intends to increase
the price of domestic gas to the international level by 1987. After a price
increase in December 1984, the domestic price reached approximately 48% of
average border prices in the last quarter of 1984. The Federal authorities



- 12 -
have also agreed to raise domestic coal and lignite prices to their
respective economic costs, over a 4-5 year period, based on a long-term
pricing methodology developed by the Bank and the Mining Association.
36.       While the structure of electricity tariffs in Yugoslavia generally
reflects economic principles of electricity pricing, the level of tariffs has
been below the average long-run marginal cost of supply (LRMC). Under the
Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU), it was agreed that
electricity tariffs would be adjusted annually so as to reach LRMC by
December 31, 1987. The Federal authorities and the RAPs have taken steps in
the past two years to comply with all relevant covenants agreed with the
Bank.  As a condition of effectiveness of the Third Power Transmission
Project (Loan 2338-YU), tariffs were increased by 15% (in real terms) in
December 1983. Further increases were effected in October and December 1984
which resulted in a 8.5% real increase for calendar 1984, so that as of
January 1985, the average tariff in Yugoslavia was 76% of the preliminary
estimate of LRMC. The methodology for estimating the LRMC has also been
agreed upon. Currently, JUGEL is in the process of estimating the LRMC of
supply from the Yugoslav integrated power system on the basis of the agreed
methodology.
37.       Pricing of domestic solid fuels, which had been the responsibility
of the Republican and Provincial Communities of Interest, became that of FEC,
from January 1985, as part of its overall responsibility for all energy
prices according to the new law on the System of Social Control of Prices.
Taken together, the measures described above imply a major realignment of
energy prices to the levels of economic cost, with the aims of (i)
encouraging the economic use of energy in an institutional setting of
decen-ralized decision making and (ii) mobilization of resources to finance
the increases in energy supply required to reduce Yugoslavia's dependence on
imported energy.
The Electric Power Subsector
38.       Trends in the Power Development Program.  Yugoslavia's large power
network consists of about 3,121 km of 400 KV power lines which interconnect
the power systems of the six republics and two autonomous provinces. In
1983, the total installed generating capacity of the interconnected system
was 16,950 MW, of which about 41% was hydro. About 349,320 km of
transmission/distribution lines are operating at various voltages throughout
the country; total distribution transformer capacity in service is about
80,380 MVA. Total gross electricity produced amounted to 67,054 GWh, of
which 33Z was produced from hydro stations. In 1983, total power system
losses including distribution, amounted to 18% which is considered
reasonable. During 1970-80, consumption of electricity grew at an average
annual rate of about 8.6%, with an elasticity to GDP of about 1.5. Industry
is the major consumer of electricity, accounting for about 56% while
households accounted for 32%.



- 13 -
39.       Reflecting the already mentioned power rate increases, during
1985-90, electricity consumption is forecast to increase at a lower average
annual rate of 5.5%, implying an elasticity of 1.1 to GDP. This demand would
be met by adding 6,450 MW of new generating capacity, of which 1,500 MW will
be in hydro plants and the remainder in thermal power projects. The recent
completion of the 400 kV transmission system has eliminated major
transmission bottlenecks and the installation of the new Energy Management
System, currently being financed under the Third Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2338-YU), will help in the efficient use of the generation facilities.
Future transmission development will consist of connecting large and more
modern generating units to the national system, and of further development of
the 400 kV network to facilitate the increased volume of inter-republican
transfers and international exchanges.
40.       Organization of the Power Subsector.  The present organization of
the power subsector mirrors the Federal and decentralized political structure
of the country and has been in existence since 1974. Each RAP has its own
power industry, and each of these is required by law to supply the power
requirements of consumers within its service area. As they form part of an
interconnected system at the national level, based on a SMA for Joint
operation, their operations are coordinated by JUGEL to ensure that they are
operated as a single technologically integrated system for the whole
country. JUGEL primarily coordinates bulk power generation and transmission
in the country as well as international exchanges. Its coordinating role in
the development of the power system is based on the SMA for the Coordination
of Development Plans. Under the above two agreements, JUGEL prepares the
annual generation program for the interconnected system and the short- and
long-term electric power balances, harmonizes the development plans of the
regions, and then submits these plans to FCEI and the Federal Chamber of
Economy for approval.
41.       Since JUGEL has no executive authority over its member
organizations, it has to secure decisions through a complicated system of
voting or consensus. In theory, if there is a conflict between the
least-cost operation of the interconnected power system, and the financial
objectives and interests of individual BOALs, the least-cost objective is
expected to prevail. This had not always been the case in the past. Also,
if there is a fundamental disagreement among the regions on the future supply
of electricity, the arbitration department of JUGEL is required to mediate.
s           The Federal Executive Council has reserve powers to ensure the technological
integrity of the Yugoslav power system should the legally required SMAs not
be concluded, or should JUGEL fail to ensure agreement. Through various
loans to the power sector, the Bank has actively supported the strengthening
of JUGEL. Cooperative efforts between the Bank and JUGEL, some based on
agreements reached under the Third Power Transmission Project, have achieved
a significant degree of success, particularly in the areas of long-term power
development planning, investment financing and the adoption of adequate
energy tariffs by the power organizations.



- 14 -
42.       The Electric Power Subsector in Bosnia-Herzegovina.  There are two
main organizations in the Republic's power subsector: (i) Elektropriveda
Bosnia I Herzegovina (EPBIH), which is mainly responsible for production, and
(ii) Self-Managing Community of Interest of Elektropriveda Bosne I
Hercegovina (SIZEL). The latter, composed of representatives of power
producers and consumers, is responsible for coordinating federal and local
plans for generation and transmission, financing of power development
programs.
43.       Elektropriveda Bosnia I Herzegovina is the COAL for the power
generation industry in the Republic. The executing agency for the proposed
project, Hidroelektrane na Drini (HED), is currently a WOAL under formation
within EPBIH; it was founded in 1973 with responsibilities for constructing
hydroelectric plants on the Drina river. EPBIH has a Workers' Council, a
President, a Management Committee, and three common service organizations at
the headquarters. Its rresident, who serves for a period of four years, is
appointed by the Workers' Council.
44.       The total installed capacity of the power system in
Bosnia-Herzegovina was 3,005 MW in 1983, of which 1,427 MW was hydro. In
1983, it produced 11,527 Gwh and had a local net consumption of 8,887 Gwh.
Bosnia-Herzegovina has about 84,170 km of transmission and distribution lines
operating at various voltages throughout the Republic. The system losses at
all voltage levels, excluding distribution, was about 8% and is considered
reasonable.
45.       EPBIH's financial situation deteriorated between 1981 and 1983 due
to inadequate tariff increases and adverse hydrological conditions. As a
Borrower under the Third Power Transmission Project, it agreed to raise
tariffs to equal LRMC by December 31, 1987. This agreement has been
reaffirmed under this project (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). Meanwhile,
EPBIH had increased tariffs in 1983 and 1984 with the result that, for all
consumer categories, tariffs prevailing in Bosnia-Herzegovina in March 1985
were, on average, among the highest in Yugoslavia. With further increases in
tariffs expected before mid-1985, and, as a result, subsequent improvements
in its cash generation, EPBIH's financial situation will improve steadily.
Internal income is expected to contribute 19% of investment in 1985, 38% in
1987 and 64% in 1990, and return on revalued assets to improve from 1.1% in
1983 to 10.4% in 1990.
46.       EPBIH's financial and accounting systems need to be strengthened to
serve as effective management tools. The absence of a centralized finance
department with qualified personnel has compounded the problem. To help
improve this situation, EPBIH will by September 30, 1985, enter into an
agreement with the Social Accounting Service (SDK)l/ who will provide
1/ An independent Federal organization responsible for auditing all social
sector enterprises as well as handling accounting of domestic
transactions among Yugoslav enterprises.



- 15 -
experts, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and by September
30, 1987 train EPBIH staff, as well as design an adequate accounting and
management information system, to improve the organization. EPBIH will
consult with the Bank on SDK's recommendations, and, after taking into
account the Bank's views, implement these recommendations no later than June
30, 1988 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07). Meanwhile, as a further effort to
improve its management, EPBIH will, by December 31, 1985, reach an agreement
with SDK regarding suitable solutions to the major qualifications made by SDK
in its audit of EPBIH's 1982 financial statements (Loan Agreement, Section
5.06).
Previous Bank Lending in the Power Subsector
47.       The Bank has had a long-standing involvement in Yugoslavia's power
subsector development. The proposed loan would be the eighth Bank lending
operation (including one supplemental loan) for power in Yugoslavia. The
first two loans (Loans 277-YU and 318-YU both for W30 million) helped finance
two hydroelectric plants (the Senj Hydroplant in Croatia and the Bajna Basta
Hydrostation in Serbia) and associated transmission facility. These projects
were satisfactorily completed. The third and fourth loans (Loans 836-YU and
1469-YU for 975 million and $8O million, respectively) helped finance the
development of a national interconnected power system for the efficient
utilization of generation and transmission facilities. The completion and
audit reports on these projects concluded that they were, despite some
delays, successfully completed, and helped to achieve a considerable
standardization of equipment and design for 400 kv lines. The fifth and
sixth lending operations (Loans 1561-YU - Tranche I in 1968 for $73 million
and 1561-1-YU - Tranche II in 1983 for t61 million) were for hydroelectric
projects on the Middle Neretva River in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first
tranche was successfully completed in 1983 within the original construction
schedule and the estimated cost; the second tranche is scheduled for
completion in 1988. The Third Power Transmission Project, for which a $1ZO
million loan (Loan 2338-YU) was made in 1983, will finance a national energy
management system which would help optimize the coordination of operations of
regional power facilities within the country-wide interconnected system.
Further, the project would assist in efforts to improve the coordination of
planning of investments and their financing in a decentralized system. The
Bank's continued involvement would build on these efforts and contribute to
improved coordination of planning, institution building and economic pricing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The proposed project was prepared by EPBIH with assistance from
consultants and it was appraised in June/July 1984. Negotiations for the
proposed loan were held in Washington from March 11-18, 1985. The Yugoslav
delegation was headed by Mr. Vladmir Mijatovic, President of Business Board,
EPBIH, and included representatives from JUGEL, HED, EPBIH and the Federal
Government. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Visegrad Hydroelectric
Project" (No. 5349-YU, dated April 10, 1985) is being circulated separately



- 16 -
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the proposed loan and
project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A
map of the project area (IBRD 18478) is attached.
49.       The proposed project forms a part of the Government's nationwide
least-cost development program, based on a comprehensive long-range power
development study carried out by JUGEL and Boris Kidric Institute of Nuclear
Sciences with Bank assistance. It will be located on the Drina river, one of
the most important hydro resources of Yugoslavia, with about 29 sites
identified, of which seven have been constructed.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The project's objectives include: Ci) economic development of
indigenous renewable energy resources, thereby reducing the country's
dependence on imported oil; (ii) strengthening the Borrower's financial
management, and providing a comprehensive training program covering financial
analysis, planning and systematic reporting; and (iii) assistance in project
construction supervision and monitoring.
51.       The proposed project includes the construction of hydroelectric
facilities on the Drina River near Visegrad. It would consist of:
(a) the construction of a concrete gravity dam (height - 52 m, length -
270 m) on the Drina River to form a reservoir with a storage
capacity of about 160 million m3 and 8.5 km2 surface area, a
power house with three 105-MW hydro turbine-generator units with a
short water intake and outlet structure with the main and auxiliary
gates;
(b) the construction of a 400-kV step-up transformer bank (315 MW) to
connect the power plant to the interconnected power grid by a
4DO-kV transmission line (about 5.4 km), relocation of about 40 kms
of roads and resettlement of about 225 families; and
(c) consultancy services for construction supervision, a training
program for the staff of the borrower and lIED in financial
management to set up an adequate management information system, and
a panel of experts to advise on civil works.
52.       The total foreign funding required is t151.4 million which includes
t27.4 million interest charges and about t26.4 million indirect foreign
exchange costs, of which about t13.4 million is for hydromechanical equipment
which will be provided by local suppliers. Total contract costs eligible for
Bank financing are estimated at about t97.6 million. The proposed Bank loan
of t125 million represents about 44X of the total estimated financing
requirement (t284.3 million) and about 83% of the estimated foreign component
of the project and will finance materials, construction equipment and
interest during construction on the Bank loan. The Bank loan will be made to
Elektroprivreda Bosne I Herzegovina-Sarajevo, the composite organization for



- 17 -
power development in the Republic of Bosnia I Herzegovina. SPBIH waa one of
the borrowers under three previous transmission loans, and the borrower under
the Middle Neretva Hydropower project (Loan 1561-YU). The proceeds of the
Bank loan will be made available to HED for purposes of implementing the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
53.       The project's local costs will be financed by EPBIH's internal cash
generation, consumers' contributions, Federal funds for less-developed
regions and local banks.  The EPBIH, Community of Interest and the Chamber of
Commerce of BIH have already entered into SMAs for a part of the local
financing requirements. To ensure that adequate local financing is available
as needed during project construction, the Borrower has provided the Bank
with evidence of agreements concluded with local banks and authorities
relating to provision of funds. The project's construction costs and the
financial requirements of EPBIH's annual construction program, including cost
overruns, will be reviewed annually and required appropriations will be made
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). It was also agreed that EPBIH's construction
program will be tailored to available resources, and that EPBIH will exchange
views on modifications to its medium-term development program with the Bank
not later than November 30 of each year. EPBIH also agreed to consult with
the Bank before making any changes, in excess of t20 million equivalent, in
its construction program for 1985-90 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
Project Implementation
54.       Under the overall supervision of EPBIH, the project will be
executed by Hidroelektrane na Drini (HED) in accordance with the
implementation schedule agreed with the Bank. RED has engaged ENERGOINVEST
of Sarajevo, a capable and internationally acknowledged Yugoslav engineering
consulting firm for detailed engineering design and assistance in
construction supervision. RED has also agreed to employ a panel of
independent experts under terms of reference and employment satisfactory to
the B.-nk to review oroject construc? ion, at regular intervals, and to advise
it in the event of major unforeseen problems during project construction
(Project Agreement, Schedule, Part II(b)). In addition, EPBIH/HED will
undertake periodic inspection in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices to ensure the safety of the dam (Project Agreement, Section
3.03(d)).
55.       Detailed engineering designs of the project have been completed for
the dam and power house civil works, and specifications have also been
completed for the hydromechanical equipment. These designs, along with the
geological and seismic conditions, have been reviewed by the Bank and found
to be satisfactory. Civil works construction for preliminary works have
already commenced. Contracts for the construction of civil works for the dam
to be financed by the Borrower were awarded to Hidrogradnja of Sarajevo in
July 1984. In view of the existing skill and competitiveness demonstrated in
international competition by the local construction industry, this is an
effective and acceptable method for project execution. Contracts for
hydromechanical equipment have also been awarded on the basis of local



- 18 -
competitive bidding. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1989 and the loan closing date will be December 31, 1989. Upon completion of
the project, the project assets will be transferred to a work organization of
associated labor to be established and accountable to HED, (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04 and Project Agreement Section 2.05).
Procurement and Disbursements
56.       Civil works, goods and services to be procured under the project
total t239.6 million, of which t97.6 million will be procured under ICB and
will be financetd from the Bank loan. Yugoslav manufacturers would be
accorded a preference of 15Z or applicable customs duties and import taxes.
All contracts of t100,000 or more will be subject to prior Bank review.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                        ICB     LCB      Other     N.A.    Cost
Civil Works: (a) Main Civil Works             38.5                      38.5
(b) Ancillary Works             58.0                       58.0
Cement                               20.4                               20.4
(18.2)                            (18.2)
Steel                                23.6                               23.6
(21.1)                            (21.1
Construction Machinery               (10.9)                             10.9
(9.7)                             (9.7)
Hydromechanical Equipment                     19.3                       19.3
Electromechanical Equipment           60.3                              60.3
(48.6)                            (48.6)
Transmission Line                              0.8                0.2    1.0
Training                                                0.2               0.2
Engineering                                             7.4               7.4
Total                             115.    1166 7.             -.2  2W6
(97.6)                       (    (97.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
57.       The proposed Bank loan, to be disbursed over 5 years, will finance
100% of foreign expenditures or ex-factory costs of material and equipment
contracts awarded under Bank Guidelines and the interest during construction



- 19 -
on the Bank loan. A special account totalling approximately $4.0 million
will be established by the Borrower as a revolving fund to facilitate timely
disbursements of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 4).
Retroactive financing of up to U8 million is proposed for eligible
expenditures incurred after August 1, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 para.
3).
58.       Environment.  A study of the ecological and environmental aspects
of the region surrounding the project has been undertaken by EBPIH's
consultants, and their recommendations have been incorporated in the project
design. In view of the relatively small reservoir resulting from the dam,
which would be contained entirely in the canyon bed, only few settlements and
some cultivation are affected in the submerged area. The impact of the
project on the surrounding environment is expected to be minimal. The
authorities meanwhile have taken action to protect some historical sites in
the area and to relocate existing roads and bridges. The families affected
by the reservoir are being relocated in major cities in accordance with the
local regulations and the preferences of the families.
59.       Benefits and Risks.  The proposed project, identified as part of
the least cost investment program for the national power system, will help
assure a firm source of low-cost and reliable electric generating capacity to
meet the growth in power demand in the Yugoslav integrated power system and
help reduce the dependence on imported sources of energy. It will also
assist in strengthening EPBIH's financial management and planning. As a
result of the difficulty in measuring benefits of power supply in existing
markets, incremental revenues were used as proxy for measuring benefits.  On
this basis, the rate of return on the time-slice of country-wide power
investment program including the project is estimated to be about 1OX which
reflects the opportunity cost of capital in Yugoslavia and the adequacy of
tariffs set at LRMC of supply. The project would also yield additional
unquantifiable benefits such as public recreation and fishing on the lake to
be formed by the project.
60.       No major physical risks are anticipated in implementing the
proposed project beyond those that are normally expected in the construction
of a project of this type and size. Moreover, unanticipated problems which
may arise during construction could be solved with the help of the proposed
panel of independent experts (para 54). Any possible risk, relating to
delays in implementation due to financial constraints, is minimized by the
guarantee of the authorities to obtain the needed commitments (para. 53).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The Loan Agreement between the Bank and Elektroprivreda Bosne I
Herzegovina - Sarajevo, the Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank



- 20 -
and Hidroelektrane na Drina, and the Report of the Committee, as provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
62.       The features of interest of the loan, referred to in the text, are
described in Section III of Annex III of this Report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 8, 1985
Washington, D.C.



Z1 -                                             ANNEX I
TAIL!  SA                                    Page  1 of  6
YUOSLAVIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 8
UWOSLAVIA                          lEuInC aBut(WIGTD AVEBAGS8) jg
oRTCIIIS       IIIDDL I 1U            DOUL
1960/b   1S7CI!b    *mpgAHST               (ROUT a   T ESBRAWaS
AUA (TOSD  SQ. 31)
TOTkL                             255.8      255.8       255.8
ARICULTURAL                       149.2      146.3       142.5
COr M CAPITA (US$)                   35D.0      760.0      28OO.0            2345.3               11071.0
SNU! COUSDIPTICB PR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EqUIVALENT)     659.0     1139.0       1B44.0           L122.8                 4996.9
POPULATIo AND V1SAL STAtISTICS
POPULATION.MID-YUAR (THOUSANDS)   18402.0    20371.0   22646.0
URBAN POPULATION tt OF TOTAL)      27.9       34.8        43.9              46.8                  78.3
POPULATION PROJECTWINS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                          25.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                            29.2
POPULATION MOMENTUI                                      1.4
POPULATlON DENSITY
PER SQ. 0m.                      71.9       79.5        88.0              82.9                  139.3
PeR SQ. aM. KMR1. LAND          123.3      139.3       158.0             15B.9                  519.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (C)
0-14 YRS                        30.5       27.4        24.4              31.6                   22.1
15-64 YRS                        63.2       64.8        66.8              61.1                  66.1
65 AND ABOVE                      6.3        7.8         8.8               7.1                   11.7
POPUILATION QIoufl RATE Cl)
TOTAL                             1.2        1.0         0.9               1.6                    0.8
URBAN                             3.6        3.2         2.9               3.7                    1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       23.5       17.8        14.9              23.4                  13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        9.9        8.9         8.9               8.8                   9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.4        1.1         1.1               1.6                   0.9
FAILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOU5)          .-
USERS CZ OF HARRIED INN)           ..       59.0        55.0 IC
FOOD AMI N1TMX
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      85.0       93.0       126.0             114.5                 114.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREIENTS)    125.0      130.0        144.0            128.6                  132.3
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)         95.0       93.0       100.0              89.7                  98.5
OF WHICH ANIAL AND PULSE       29.0       32.0         39.0 /d          34.5                   61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        10.0        4.6         2.0               5.2                   0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      62.5       67.5        71.1              67.4                  74.9
INFANT NDRT. RATE (PER THOUS)      88.0       56.0        34.0              54.2                  10.3
ACCLSS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                              -
URBAN                            42.4 /e    62.0 7;e
RURAL                                       12.3 7e*
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPULATION)
rOtAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1620.0     1000.0       550.0            1065.8                 553.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           530.0 If   410.0       280.0             764.4                 166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           200.0      180.0        160.0            326.3                  120.8
URBAN                            90.0 If   160.0       100.0 /c          201.5                  143.1
RURAL                          1D40.0 7   1060.0       1840.0 7..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       17.3        18.2 Ic           20.0                  17.8
HOUSE
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.0        3.8         3.8 /c
URBAN                             3.3        3.2         3.3 7;-
RURAL                             4.4        4.3         4.1 7;              -
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSDNS/ROON
TOrAL                             1.6        1.4          . 
URBAN                             1.7        1.3
RURAL                             1.5        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF 5JELLINGS)
TOTAL                            54.5       87.9
URBAN                            92.7       98.4
RURAL                            36.1       80.1



-22 -                                                  ANNEX I
lIALE I                                           Page 2 of 6
tWOOL^A          -S9CIAL IPlWlC^9oTAC
(NOS  CItfT ESTIMATE) .1k
I9LCT          RtIDDLE 102t            I1UDEHAL
|9*dl!  ~        614A31              31130           HAStUl! EuoeCOEIESIA
AJURSED ENEOLUIENT iRATIS
PaIM      TOUL                    L11.0       106.0         99.0              10t 1                   101.3
HAL                    113.0      106.0        100.0              103.3                   L03.0
6*2Lh                  106.0       104.0         96.0               96.7                   102.7
EO ONDANTi TOTAL                   3.0         63.0         B3.0               59.1                    90.3
MILA                     63.0        N.0         66.0               68.9                    64.6
lUAU                    53.0         5.0         30.0               50.6                    67.8
VOCATIOIW. ( Or SOMDAI)                 .        2 6.4        25.4               21.6                    17.9
PIWIL-T&ACUEI RATIO
PfDLiAt                            33.0        27.0         24.0               25.1                    20.2
scArtII                            13.0        22.0         16.0               20.5                    15.0
ADULT LITEnACt DAT  (2)              76.3        63.3         ms.0 a             7i.6                    7  1
PABSIGIC  CACSU1ISO24ID FOP           2.0        35.4         14.7 1             54.7                   287.2
AD10    EVIVR8/TOoUNOD pO           64.9       163.9        207 4              164.9                  1090.7
TV R31EI13/TUOUAID  op                 1.4       6.3         132.4              123.8                   431.0
NEISPAPER (0I6LY C011L3L
INhfhRST") CIOCULATION
PER TNOSou   POPULATION            70.3        65.3        103.0 .1            6.3                    331.2
CiNSA ALNUAL ATTENDANICAPITA          7.1         4.2          3.5  I             2.3                     3.6
TOTAL LA*D0 OrCo (TlOus)           8302.0      U883. f0    9602.0 U                 .
FREALE (PERCENT)                   35.0        33.9         36.1               34.;                    36.
AGDICIL1UE (113mT)                 63.0        51.0         29.0               40.7                     8.2
INDUSTUT (1UT)                     18.0        23.0         35.0               23.3                    37.7
PATItCIPATIO  EAT! (PECENT)
TOTAL                              45.1        43.4         42.4               42.9                    43.7
;ALE                               60.0        36.6         54.3               54.7                    59.3
FEN=                               30.9        30.6         30.0               31.0                    32.7
ECONaC DEPENDENCY RATIO               o.u         0.3          0.8                0.9                     0.7
P33CZ? Of RIVAlS INCEhZ
RECEIVED 3?
EISST 52 OF UUEOLA                 16.4        i 13.1 A     13.1 A
BIES? 20O O UOUD8EU s              41.5 7      41.6         38.7 ,               ..                    43.1
LOUEST 202 or EOUsEaLDS             6.9 A       6.6          6.6 A               ..                     5.4
LOWIEST 402 of wUB0olD             19.0        1s.47        1 18.7 A             ..                    16.4
ESTlIAD SIOLUTE PFOVE? tA
LEVEL (US$ PE  CAPITA)
maa                                  ........
WEAL                                 ..
ESTILtM   RELATIVE PVoRT 1aCos
LVEL (US PR CAPITA)
OSAN                                 ........
RUALL                                ..          ..        530.0
ESTIMATED POP. AUML SOLUT
POITITY IN     LtEVL (2)
UR                                   .....
NIOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
a   The group araes for  ch lindlcator r   poPulAtion-ighted aritmetic means. Coverage of countries  innin the
indicators depends on ayilabillty of data and iS not uniform.
lb   ElssB otherwise  dotnd. -ta for 1960' roefr to ay Year betuas_  1959 and 1961; 'Dte for 1970 betwen 1969 and
1971; and date for flant ecent Retleste  between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1976; ld 177; la  rrent of occupie  dumilns with piped vater; /f 1962; k 197I     ; /b 1978; l1979; |  Includin
migrant vorera abroad; A  3963; ft 1968.
JUNE. L984



23-ANX
- a minim                                                 P~~~age 3 of 6
haod.  490   O1t0 daose a  dos l,s ...ooii.vJ-o.IiP              Si   -o  uisbi_toi_ ooad siloS.. to iotoh  ii. t. -.00    she whe -, sot ho iofto.ionlobiy
swank timio~~t. oh In its d                   oiesli  ao isospo midb   O iais                 st ni.ieat   ItC du.. Wt 40I0 CM. sim"Itdtos     -Oot aso
dMoiSt 0050O  son,~ tioni. NWft                   a nn- a lesu     -n  " ii  inj a itls       01iss inolin.
hi ooAin   aspw  so (I  i   .a    mo     man ot0 shor    ossy a1 (33.C soop  nIM  Path aduiadUA bikt ss                              imou  tin  oh. PoWats  goiso  tlb
Outpti   o asp  t-oossi i.e 'ISO  tim       & 51"Cilotoio   wan0 fLit. -MtUL0t  toss- Shor4t   1  Cit   si    . uiuo- A. fl-o  to..o  .0  olosriwoII      oo.o
dntbottibs  I. II* oiftso        slo Sw   oh.gi   monis    -ra sioatn  miss  vitiokuoa         n  too,   0.* tdmawais, Fad i s alpo  Sin W ioololltoi 04 ito  msloli LieC
i So   -L"siiw.o  ms6   at -o  godtuSi  -  fin,Co   his isooga  a    ipmMoo .    IF-f i   n oiqWt I It I  sob r if   a  I   sor C sits  IIIoa%.O PImtp, a
uokma iq.tn                                                        lasts!   eoLflhonIS4   VPaLoswtt   u00140  by soot. i  proiostoi4
%     - Tail woO ws in       Isaf fo i m td  som  au  toi,Aamm"Is bs, 1ie[!".                                     Ci   amiii.  "oiooi so Coioiollys list.
M% =-a  aw    m.                                                                           ihotqg    oiloim  - Pouohitto,a dbfld  by vnto ii sornilolr
MfpMu    ehiattoo  it oItilnioeol sot d omoorotbo -   uimaiPtipnb    los.io.d .    itii                                       " aiosthat  . saoittial sun  oad
sstoso. niotma Cal 1tbitiki mii          -  iiSt C.ki bust is.                   st.ilq-  m11iitoIsI.
kier ead li  diii.                                                                        Msloiti.li t .               4tL'el; oiobi,.uS  ibo  - !i.toitus   medt.
-                        I~1l~.ftut- Sso  ats.noaso amos  notsiesGMdoMi oRpli  a   solOi    tl ad iguotads    hs'.pLalt
essosi- a  ommod a trwd Sit .Loe (las-ia iniob                                  oSi1M 1hUt C... asos.        I.Lei.     silioi  siroCoouikiy fetic9
lbs. as ao    a   mr  diii.                                                                   by it bossa  -  gtrooboin. ftimoltikisii snitdti4 eatinipitly  moStal i
moar    sCa isticS.  hid.1 lomtspisili         - f  .issi ,la t- its  a
tdoroi . mOnt ii inoito                               sEnt ant   -4 pilanir ilifri  by i ibyfilsi  Itsm by i sdisob
pa p             '.~e7l      mv. Id'oobo-m.  omaood!in a- CoW No-. nibs.                      isLamudi sos, ituedti, PCo.) Sitsb Slit as-VIobs  Coainsdw s  a
a.     iis ot-ARiboonobop  to h9oboes it CAt ilotoeA     pie soploi  tIO.                     p5.10 C lhasts oq  ii sits3  1hailtoso.
Ills, a  tub dci.                                                    fl151SstkiollilkA:00 261                                   a ilot  i  da s   Wo -   it.aes
lb too!.0- 1.Cit   moot it t m..
C-Ci CadatI lw.  WO.oodles    o-   J1O. fii ales. bIts, a1-1                                                                               nLt issuet
Pw.IadA_ P-3-16-   -  b-W                    wo-  Its I   teotS        ..W..o so tnsOod  -si.i..  sdtn
Clp,~- I~                "'       -tt   fa.i  etpiiun                                            nd         sloiiin   htM                     SO   t      ittuiio
Idool Cut iooim                      5w   dliii santtli   t  i.                             i  Otto4y  -91p ste  ma .A tooom  -I .dii  s-P e gash tulodod  id
moa         Krtt. snLtp  a91 tooIatuop                         So  ie.siitsy    hltt  NM                        -iois   * orsuo 
baa. nmoao lift     [Caolg  a hft     tspotnioo " itohe ai.   0                    Aa0i    iorto -oioto iittossl- o otsmrot-
win.  ift PioesIat  tie Coasoolisy on  iOn ten  ib     ton.                               it tout, .sa. au si..!  otai d    qoss oo
sowlauntas as listItlip oSodildi  ime is!o m.I soo s"Iat,
stis  soiloi    . lc  4-olp  ho tin    tifAd    it 0 tn  its .sfal
M    Wasam   itsboiy                       -driis  0.1  tie Prjosote. pWnso.           Hluith tltitAiRAifi
flglJaIsinetisi-i1 oddiS cp- =,--os-sIbteC stoll s,T" 91                                              W    l    1.CdF          - G-s  teal,t sob iii unto
omnttsiniwoiro- Ct.ue Vie."". aCi              Ciooli 1teiaoy                         i4.iT5otli             IiCjbm.iitiy   es  to PiOSulO- ii riootso
toon hem  ilsotiesonto  i la  am uistimii test lieotis    isolot-ado snIPleobn-t s--uip tolsotod  Sldoio  "od  i-S
rsssottuiei "sto-IL.t no  a                   totli..i hinb t sl  I    is                   psi._ t=odSsi R   lot d19t.Iftio    b-ihe o  print! ilitiau too,9
Iod "-Ii ii nw too  -     iioitao Ispototim iL.o          slso         it-                  sis   i    swill i.Lt-      sa  i..  It ufo-  s-nW sno.P-
roslo itc it   dojialU. o_trIiuiteii PWItI pipeiti   I  it             lb.                so.ooio  oak  -otal,. .[ solo        bib t-  i..ii  meW     in-   oolo
as, ad it. foii it d-An  ii t-inii., tou  -o  o.sa     b.-t.                                idoi   o.o   itnsiorni    nap1t. isTruoo
P.ontiiteo   nots - 1.   t ids.ss  toe  ooobLn 4.a    to Loilno                        tuds gooo-         oi.is.  ts .lo0tiaii.c1 Istootio t.
.1t.,l O  el.a iiot iPuiodoso.-lI.Wo ialti  boooo   o,d - oit..aood  tOtsoliiott  ti O   iotia  i   itio.ioiosno 
b.  m    0C. PCPiL so 1 stodsoitn rb  h    -.Wi  Ptoo.  ot giotm   sadd
sosiis  iF0ssbi   oi.~ota   -o                         ool. at itZrioa   ftsotloro   i.oodrt     woio    isieo
no.1100t Fc.-    to.  u                                                                                      too   .ol .o..ddior b..t.ia   ooto.o tiq
roiolotaihoot.                                                                        siier!aW.ia.o1   boot 11.-5 b  tahti 0  oiotso  o ib
PoPtk-a. hi.  stoClo`F`Iro C--,  "otid  -a.. to  .ri.irs   ii                                   oirioo   ticiottsoioi   tdi  onm   oo
tstaotn,  Sue  ".itor  (oooloool --f-ilia  ttaiLno.l. frtosi-n1fi
P501I515 frost goo  p-vocoi) - soil - AI-t coooo  rotao PC toil1 od-                          ittlooty oshi.ato.
psi sauto l..on adDs-it. assa-re. Pat islo-4l.                                            olotosute   tidsnoiw      i  75  tvc oio   ai
Tostatos  Coas  toorsot     oo     wwtd0    ai  t  b                                            rioi   iooutsar-    kodi  oovtotsiioit iooilod
staton  Iv iis-S   a15.il  sdlts-2.                                                sotisosl rIn.oo1. to oiotrlao, a  te town I0so lotlaooli or Iodb
s-osohtotriiid      sot  lotot  0   t5l.   l--                                                      n   .obo;heOrrio   ot  o   -  to osoribl  itio   ao
w  sinOotooo~~~ 1105, ilala. a  tooz dee.                              ootliso Auhelat   tlsttk.sg.
Cod, tlts to tie  ibum Id  - joi-t dootho P., ibsood ot Sdyn                         ttrirolirf the.uod islabsl      I  o-Loso. tic broalad tt
ami twt.dtiio  fto" -  ooirie   -onr of d"fooho-. on     di, tIIr Is.                         I.  snftloodm ia yo-r  wion  xIto.iuoti  it TV isti on Ooolo
to sni rorSolin0irtdIC iftI -iotoo             ------eo-.olli    -                 oooet Clthoti  Coo is....  .oitiii -       ito ouCr,.
i.nlga,Clol              I.7           ..~- "f  L.  0. 1M    .4                    .&     1"IyI. wbies-ooedsttl   .rowil  ooi en W too  Ot: nwldood
ali.i iiboaooia   0olf ha        ntiati   soo-                                            --l ::      iO if it em oo,s. -r iiroitIoo    osi e            t nit1-
M1 bloso-oiutole.-. io          .pisaa     .t -.tbno  Fuaty PL.esii                       elsi   to. t iodoo    n         tt. C00 Tar . 5.04 IItt onto if
soiln  Oba-totts an i   o     rItoto   0*1 ohio.                   orS   a
tbtad-b.oroemo -p ioar l               ot-ad iir4l.ilnI  o    sIaiii e.  MiOtoll-tiioae                                                  na   oI--.. t-.r 1Ldt.o ed
omorOs oosoriooii oi ls ti nonod too Piler -W grai.                                   laos                          , soird   i   oruid Ooi.i,o.io..0... cisoti
po,owiolbs it ott         WW.sIsItsm. to  IL-e  oieOlli         i
pm am atitnin                                                                                   rovosooi; Isb. 1170 sod IMi  dsoi.
Isa ad  toA  a Loastoao  0o  boot..  Co-do-t        -  p..r tn-  gn% 10.1.                  014010  - purIRoa  at  -ota  lt.k  Fr-; 110. JIM eid but iota
snt mo       at  soo  o`tlot in  "iitto  Wr oeIuil  sooasi. l..q.                t..dotr tesr..t3        t    o,i  oii  inirss   .Ir.r.o
uttrI  Wi tiioiioodot.   gIff-gati prid-vl t   io of            ir   t.                     itrtro.mti    s-   sol Iooia   it i..al.bitt Fotoo; tOtS. b9Ot
is-I-4    sos    nt        tdont Wi-to    Lbot  ot-wi. a9ni. ad all!                        a_ilili
do-iwLoo                                                                           etiloO.ioteit  orool-o.ll   1    i tou ft.- ttitol
t                       001 rastia no.10 ~~~~~~~~~of oooiilori   fo,uOloi   Cioiwo  it                                octeori.o   trail-ii itab.  aa, i                     lo to ta-lo         '. 
Ae`w uLotstoo ~ittso I   or sati- i.9Ci P--.L- 1noto     I. at    t                       .oio..     00"  dse.st.o.u ta-sob  oaoiLOa o ci, on totoL-o
sil   ennomd 00 ra  boad    ohkoltiotw     nod. l-.a .rs                              r.toroo..n    ati-bo..0inabo o_o  ta   I  cto
1g -1swli ;lbto  ol O   Mtut.. a   aso0  i  wtowli .
at lonsbIf  tn: aIwsi.  5110W -  0951 dot.1                h-obO tiittiCootiln- N---    ,
uwo oct1 at         W i  prli.  iii  .wor 00?- ta bo  ii le   5 ibm     t                   5.-i-i  ottbiio 30 fl--. 000-  JO 00wi                  0ti   0           of0iii
Iooeoiu  ooaa Co.       ttie  othOlSiob 1000 orot-  lot  aiio                                i.o&
aiootio o  tO oi  of i-.ma  rta.ti 01 400   d as gas 01 alsO  i
so-oii.,Ii  b Cat toX-   mat.I W0    stPti-.l.. lTh.u                           pflroto  toPm. tiiOUP
aoltdi in  Jtao lb.  h    of 0 oti  it --Iti  stitat  a   Igu                           s   iitsoltr.   l   1  a.alo-siao  t0                              oZ.s
mitkla.tai 0.0t iooit; 1004Ii. ill0  a    00loo.O iswitoatOotiti.sonts   orero)-rsisOttl-
MId o.  .Ot5oo   s.fotoaoi  ("PioiI  Subooo lle..                      t..  1       .       o ti. orlotoo t.--ro  iTon toni ItO! ol -aittol                       --.,.Iabot
o I-aP Fi&  ot,t.5ituit "I            i-  g*  top I'oo-'   sotanays -otal I..l-tn  both.s                                 I.-lbt -o..ls.      io.o            oLa
oostla   Ol ditio  ton Il. oIo.toi; toot. Ilota W  olatig.o-i.e    bsi rl  t.,n to.onoiorIto.oeoo
=UCt E,o-y                                                                                       ietad I-tio.. t.t to01   a-o-tus  o..  oII t-tt     t. 
at  Atroit tI  IIItOll Lo-3b12 400.                                                      p50lan-.'K
lo 1.soso -io t1-oo toot1o ooa     - a.i1.01 or    lito.o  t 0401-i-,
inor .t  P"o    Fto.- ooo.   a  otol-lSrasl   00w   oooCotts   ilot   0   ia0..0
eotiy aut)-   sisioi  a   ll   osiid              pooaho   .i
Nrowto OOtroO.U1p    .  toitL!' o it  -ooO-t -. ta        -.it. ao r.ts
III- bnoit   to..W   mt                      Ci u   Pa. i &-trt  Oisast
o1Cieoiowoi it tolo oopwb.         eooto    olc   Osols    ou



- 24 -                                          mm  I
WmWAVA - m:o DSE
Iqulatn; 23.0 ilion (mid-1983)
Ql per Eqpt: USU.570 (1983)
(Bllion US at                                    (at contan prita)
3kdicetor               curt pric)                                hctual                                        Peute
1983          1978    197     198      98      1982    19B3    19t4    19B5    l9B6    1987    1988
Gaea dmwtic prcdt a/         66,516          8.5     4.2     2.3     1.4     0.8   -1.3       1.5     2.9     3.7     4.6     5.2
srilcatur         -         7,957         -5.4     5.4     0.0     2.8      7.4    -1.1     1.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0
InStry                     27,286          9.2     8.5     3.2     2.2   -1.1    -2.0       2.0     3.0     4.0     5.0     6.0
Savice                     23,293         11.3     3.1     4.6     0.0      0.8   -0.6      1.0     3.0     4.0     5.0     5.5
45,378         U.8      3.0     0.6   -1.7      0.5   -0.2       0.4     1.9     2.8     3.7     5.4
(ks inwesmt                  20,559         -1.8    11.4   -6.4    -0.5    -1.3      6.6   -2.7       4.1     5.1     6.8     5.4
Earte of GWS                 12,910         -0.2    12.7    10.4     0.5  -11.5    -5.3       7.7     4.4     4.7     5.1     5.4
Dl rta of QGS                12,331          0.6   1S.4      8.6   -10.8  -15.3   -5.6        1.2     3.5     4.1     5.5     6.1
" mutioml   ,Ra              21,138         -0.2     2.0     3.0     6.0   -0.6      1.1      -        -       -       -       -
GP deator t980 -100)           140          65      79     10D      140    181      254        -       -       -      -        -
=tde  rate                     -            18.6    19.0    24.6    35.0    50.3    92.8       -       -       -      -        -
hae of  *at Yarit Prices CZ)                               &ew Ac  l:e (2)
(at nt price) bfS at mtt prim)
1960    1970     1975    1980     1985     1990            1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1910-65  198540
CkDeatic Produt a/    10D.0   100.0   10D.O  1W.0    100.0    100.0                      5.9      6.5      4.1      0.8      5.0
Mg,icultJ                 22.5    16.1     13.8    11.1     12.9     11.2               3.3      2.9      2.0      2.0      2.0
hdamty                    42.2    37.4    44.3   40.5    40.9    41.9                   6.3      8.3      7.5      0.1      5.5
Services                  29.0    38.1     33.1    35.8     36.2    36.9                6.9      4.7      4.9    -0.6       5.4
pxarqtimo                   67.2    72.8     74.3    68.3    65.9    65.3                 6.5      6.9      6.3      0.3      4.8
oWN inngh--t                36.5    32.3     33.5    35.8     27.5    28.7                4.7      5.5      5.4      0.4      5.9
Eqarts GNoS                 13.9    18.5     2D.2    20.6     31.5     32.2              10.2      6.7      5.2    -0.4       5.4
Impmorts GS                 17.5    23.5     28.0   2X.7      24.9     26.1               9.8      6.7      5.0    -5.5       6.0
te ntioml swin%             32.6    29.6     25.6    32.3    33.1    33.7                 5.3      6.2      3.2       -        -
As 2 of GW
1960    1970     1915    1980     1982
70L5C FWEIZ
Total    ii!s               27.9    33.1    36.8    34.0      30.5
lttal en.itu=               24.1    33.2    37.2    31.6      29.9
SuPrpUs (+) or deficit (-)    43.8   -0.1    -0./   -0.6      40.6
1960-70 1970-75  197540 196D85  1985-90
ao nuicam
GM pidi rate (Z)             6.1     6.7      6.0     0.2      5.3
GN per capita gn ae          5.0     5.8      5.1   -0.7       4.4
mmXa                        5.4     4.6       5.6    53.7      5.7
lqort elasticity            1.6      1.0      1.2   -6.8       1.2
a/ At maret prices; companets are eiq    Iatd factor cet mad will not dd up to total due to exlusion of net idlirtc t ts.
b/ Projected yen at c3taI 1972 prices.
166911                                                                                                                  1M  IC
Decber 1984



-25 -                   r
1's. S fc 6
qiulatin: 23.0 wi1lli  (uig-1983)
W Wt rapita: Ui32,570 (1983)
lUM9AVrA -   ML ThM
AMMXIL                             ~~~~~~~~~AaU,al GiOwi late. CZ)
(millin US$ at                                     (at  etat price) d/
la    d                 currut prices)                             kt.u1
(1983)         1978      979191    1982                 198     198                  1995        1998
e          emupoctm           9,9l3          1.4      1.6    11.0     4.3   -8.6      1.8      8.3     6.0     5.3     5.3     5.3
Pimary aj                   1,862          3.3    -0.8      3.0  -19.5   -12.9      5.7     8.8      6.3     5.5     5.5     5.5
Hifact    b/                8,051          0.8      2.     13.5    11,0   -7.7       1.1     8.1     5.9     5.3     5.3     5.3
Nfmddi e Tprts               12.154         -1.3    18.0  -10.5   -12.3   -10.0    -3.4    -1.9        3.6     4.7     5.9     6.6
Food                          688        -24.3    56.9   -7.8   -17.8   -8.2   -10.I         1.9     3.8     5.3     6.7     7.7
ttmle. cl                   3,30          10.4    10.6   -3.1    -9.4       2.8   -2.0      1A       2.0     3.2     3.9     4.2
A&inAq Zyd equiepma         2,937          -0.2    24.7   -19.3   -26.4 . -14.8     5.2    -2.0      3.8     5.0     6.3     7.1
Other                       5.225         -2.1    10.8   -7.9    -8h    -13.7    -1.7        2.0     3.7     4.7     5.9     6.6
5M   (1980 - 100)
Et price iec                    117         73      84      100     109     117     113     116      126     137     149     163
Th orcpricei id-                112         70      83      100     110     112     111      116     124     135     148     160
Titm of ;ie  uluc               10.5       104.4   101.2   100.0    99.1   104.5   101.8  ID.0   101.6   101.5   100.7   101.9
Composition of Hsrchadias Traeo (2)                           &we A.i  b=emee (1)
(at aurnmt price)                                         (at l        price)
1960    1970     1975      1980     1985     1990             1960-70  1970-75  1975.40 1960.45  1985-90
Earts                               100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0                 8.1       5.7      2.9     1.7     5.3
Priy a/                            49.6     29.4     19.5      22.0     14.6     14.7                -      -1.3      4.2   -4.1      5.5
Mi_adabi   b/                      50.4     70.6     80.5      78.0    85.4      85.3                -       8.1      2.3     2.6      5.3
Tat.                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    lO0.0    100.0               9.0      7.4       4.0    -5.0     6.6
Food                                9.1      7.2      5.5       7.2     4.7       5.0                -       5.0      8.7   -6.4      7.6
:tolem c/                           5.4      4.8     12.3      23.6     20.2     19.6                -       8.2      8.7   -0.7      4.0
M!hinry i1 equipment               36.8     33.2     33.9      28.0     27.9     28.4                -       9.4      1.8   -69        7.0
Odm                               48.7     54.8    48.3      41.2      47.1     47.0                -       6.0      2.6   -4.0      6.6
Sm  of Trade vidi       9       yme of Trade with       Sham of Wade with CapqAit         mu:e of 9rade with
lu=ial ommtre. (2)            Dlwing (utries (2)           Spl   il o           (Z)    fzuny Plma         mm (e )
1965   1970    1975    1983    1965   1970   1975   1983  19f5   1970   1975   1983    1965   1970   1975   1383
DME0= OF lnE
:qt                 40.1   53.3    34.0    33.4    17.4   13.6   16.8   13.7   0.4    0.7    2.1   IL2    42.1   32.4   47.1   46.7
Pim.              61.0   70.2    54.0     -        9.1    8.2    8.9    -      0.2    0.2    1.9    -       29.7   21.4   35.2    -
NOMsfaues         ZS.0   41.9    26.0     -       23.8   17.2   20.0    -      0.6    1.0    2.1    -       51.6   39.9   51.9    -
Imports             55.3   66.1    47.5    46.1    16.0   12.7   15.7   10.7   0.1    0.1    0.6    6.2    28.6   21.1   24.6   37.0
.1  sI10-4
b/ Bm: 5-
ci SrIC 3; inl1   lubricant, col and el iity.
dl Projected yars ar costat 1972 pricer; for historical years bae year prices ar. mtoe  of dt  pecdirg yewr.
166
EM IC
DV l194



hinst I
-2-  f 6
- 26 -
IIUEANA - BUMI U PXMIM, UIL CWAIANL - S
(S .1111m)
Pqpalationz 23.0I1OH W11983)
Gr Per Chpita 8112,5M (1993)
T  idi a                                                                                            _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
1978     1979      1980       1991   1982    1913  9197 is'.             i                 198
Eort  of gods aid manm                   11,446    14,526    18,098    19,642  1B,098  16.854  18,69   2,637   23,19   26,M4  29,427
of whid:u Ilachdis f.o.b.               5,671     6,794      8,973    10,205   9,923   9,914  11,140   12,744  14,629  16,793  19,278
Ihqorta of god. ad  maes                 12,702    18,187    20,39    20,588  18,712  16,580  18,103   19,767  21;675  24,311  127,555
of WAich: Machmdis c.i.f.               9,998    14,019    15,064    14,528  12,810  12,154  12,979   14,414  16,456  18,992  22,058
Nit traufes                                   -         -         -          _       _                _         _       _        _       _
rut  acount bIl.e                         -1,256    -3,661    -2,291       -946    -624      274     556      870   1,455   1,703   1,872
Private dircinvsant                           -         -         --,,
NIX lam (net)                             1.7L9      1,346     1,924       548    -187   1,181    -241        209    -251    -779      916
OtUr capqil b/                             -205     1,173        499       636    -201  -1,510    -173       -0      -752    -557    -619
'gue in                                    -259     1,142       -132      -230   1,012       55    -456      -279    -321    -459  -1,945
Titemntisail ssves C/                     3,245     1,966      2,567     2,687   1,675   1,622   21.56    2,434   2,756   3,215   5,159
Of wich: (bId (official valaion)           69        73         78        78       78      78       78       78      78       78      78
ltnaves -n sahs impots                        3.1       1.3       1.5        1.6     1.1      1.2     1.4       1.5     1.5      1.6     2.2
a  CnL AND Esrn
(kous diiiursmms                          3,057     3,891      4,596     3,107   2,314   3.660   3.316    3,206   3,914   4,005    405B
Offlisl. credits, public an
piulir:ly guam-tee                      369       519.       676.      712.    4n.  1,1.6   1,816         602     479      475    3458
MutiBatera                            1D0        318.      308       218      3%4.    340      552      436     446      453     454
S                                  180       294.       281       218.    330.    280      552       436     446      453     454
Bilarl                                189        201       368       494.    11.    796   1,274         166      63       22       4
Prints creditors ai  nmrgpisensd        2,687     3,372      3,92D     2,395   1,843   2,524   1,500    2,604   3,435   3,53D   3,600
Yoew        rt credit (net)               (-105)    (-W)    (-215)    (-234)  (-177)  (-157)  (-200)   (-260)  -(29)    (91)  (-225)
ae1  debt
Debt atstatiq ad
diObid dl                            11,353    14,177    16,237    17,38   17,83D   18,385  19,695   19,948  19,194  17,922  18,237
UTdisursa  debt                           1,671   1,393      1,212     1,783   1,441   2,418   2,5B5    2,702   2,781   2,836   3,010
rt mavin. el
ToAl serice pqzs                        2,G29     2,582      3,357     4,009   4,006   4,875   5,835    5,729   6,80D   7,229    5,543
Interest ft                             495       821      1,281     1,957   2,049   2,155   2,197    2,376   Z,102   1,951   1,851
1'Zmy,mmtaslaqort                          18        18         19        20      22       29      31        28      29       28      19
Averae interest rate mu new loas (Z) #I       6.1       7.5       15.0      12.5    14.5    10.8    10.8       10.8    10.9    10.9    U.0
A*erage imttwity of ne loom (yarn)           16.8      14.9       8.9       11.7     9.6      7.4     8.0       7.9     7.4      7.4     7.1
l Estiates.'
/ nzbides iet -e of IF credit (drauiag less rupurvhes), net us of Ior-ter credit ad cFuse  in bilateml
bauxs.
c4  TrInrdizf gros foreign aset of       il ba.
di  Fxenl barrwiireported in the historical belare of pasysts is rot coruistent vith exterul debt data.
;F Debt servie exudes mnrtizio  ad interest on xpaort credit  atdaed by Yipslavia.
k After 193D, iclute  charge an us of Ef eurces.
iablic ad pulicly garnteed debts only.
16691
nea IC
Duember 1984



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of September 30, 1984
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
US$ Million
Amount (Less
Loan   Fiscal                                                    Cancellations
No.    Year      Borrower(s)               Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                1,880.9        -
916     1973  NAFTAGAS                 Gas Pipeline              59.4       3.0
1360    1977  METOHIJA                Multipurpose Water         54.0      11.5
1561    1978  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Hydropower                  73.0       3.3
1561-1  1984  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Mostar Suppl. Loan          61.0      55.5
1621    1979  Privredna Banka          Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                Agric/Agroind.          55.0        8.2
1678    1979  Five Road Org.          Highways X                148.0       3.4
1756    1980  Zagrebacka Banka        Croatia Sava Drainage    51.0        14.7
1768    1980  Port of Bar             E'quake Rehab-Bar Port   35.0         5.1
1769    1980  Montenegro Railway Org E'quake Rehab-Railways   14.0          0.5
1801    1980  Vojvodjanska Banka      Agric. Credit III          86.0      32.2
1819    1980  Four Road Org.          Highways XI               125.0      28.9
1909    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Industrial Credit V       50.0      24.1
1910    1981  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Industrial Credit V       30.0       2.9
1911    1981  Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit V       20.0        5.0
1912    1981  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit V         10.0       0.4
1951    1981  Investbanka             Agr/Agroindustries         87.0      52.6
1977    1981  Pristina Railway Org.  Railways                    34.0      17.6
1993    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Agric/Agroindustries      90.0      66.2
2039    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Agriculture                 80.0      58.4
2055    1982  Radna Org. Vodovod       Kosovo Water Supply       23.0       2.5
2132    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Industrial Credit VI      33.0      19.7
2133    1982  Stopauska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit VI        33.0      21.6
2136    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Agriculture Dev.           23.3      12.9
2161    1982  Privredna Banka         Drainage                   26.1      19.9
Sarajevo
2233    1983  Reg. Work Org. KOMPRED Tuzla Water Supply          19.7      15.8
2306    1983  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Kosovo Regional Devt.    79.0       74.6



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
USt Million
Amount (Less
Loan     Fiscal                                                  Cancellations)
No.     Year      Borrower(s)              Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
2307     1983 Udruzena Beogradaka
Banka                 Serbia Regional Devt.   136.0       125.9
2326     1983 Udruzena Beogradaka
Bank                  Structural Adjustment   275.0        42.8
2336     1984 Four Railway Org.        Railways VI              110.0      102.2
2338     1984 Eight Power Org.         Power Transmission III  115.0       115.0
2339     1984 Rosovska Banka
Pristina              Industrial Credit VII    45.0        44.9
2340     1984 Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit VII    25.0        23.9
2410 /2  1984 Vojvodjanska Banka       Fertilizer Sector         90.0       90.0
2467 7T  1985 Investiciona Banka       Montenegro Reg'l Devt.   40.0        40.0
Total (less cancellations)                      4116.4
Of which:  Repaid                              893.4
Total Outstanding                                3223.0
Amount Sold                           9.2
Of Which:  Repaid                   9.2          -
Total now held by the Bank                       3223.0
Total undisbursed                                          1011.6
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 Not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                          Type of         Amount in USt Mln
Year              Obligor                      Business        Loan Equity Total
1970   Internat'l Investment Corp.    Investment Corporation   -    2.0    2.0
1970/ Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat
*           1980     S.p.A.                         Automotive Industry      12.4  0.6   13.0
1971/ Tovarna Automobilov in
1980     Motoriev Maribor (TAM)
Klockner-Humboldt Deutz A.G. Automotive Industry         9.2  0.9   10.1
1972/ FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler
1980     Benz A.G.                     Automotive Industry       16.3  0.8   17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                   Tires                     12.5  2.5   15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper             70.9  -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO         Special Steel            10.0  -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                   Cement Plant             10.0  -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                       Steel                    50.0  -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrazute
Hrane/Unilever                Food/Food Processing       4.0  2.4    6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp/Paper Products        15.6  2.6   18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                      Hermetic Compressors      7.-  -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd    Tourism                    21.0  -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                    Machinery                 18.7  -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial
Banks                         Small-scale Enterprise  30.2  -       30.2
1982   Igalo                            Physical Medicine Ctr.  15.7  -       15.7
1982   Industrija za automobilski
Delovi I Traktori             Motor Vehicle Accessory 10.9  -       10.9
1983   LBZB                            Development Finance       32.1         32.1
Total Gross Commitments                                  346.5 11.8  358.3
Less;  Cancellations, terminations, exchange
adjustments, repayment and sales               187.5  5.2  192.7
Total commitments held by IFC                            159.0  6.6  165.6
Total undisbursed held by IFC                             21.9  0.8   22.7



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: VISEGRAD HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project                   4 years
(b) Agency which prepared project                   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia i Herze-
govina and Hidro-
elektrik Na
Drina
with the
assistance of
consultants.
(c) Project first presented to Bank                 1983
Cd) First Bank mission to review project            March 1984
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission                  June 13, 1984
(f) Completion of Negotiations                      March 18, 1985
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness                   August, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Exchange of views with the Bank before modifications of
the construction program, resulting in a variation in cost
exceeding t20 million (para. 53).
(b) Conclusion of arrangements with Social Accounting Service
for training staff in improved accounting procedures (para.
46).



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Employment of consultants for construction, supervision
and establishment of an independent panel of experts to review
periodically project construction, and to advise on any
unforeseen problems (para. 54).
(d) Transfer of the project assets on their completion to a
new organization of associated labor (para. 55).



16'   Mraclin                          1 7                                      18,
C-  .-'                     Sik            /4        ,Slav. Brad.
j   . Kladua                                BoBD os. Brod
-45*                        5*                                                                t opolo
coxinLDe /1                                                   DorventaA.,         rr.A -f
., Sons.i M rosi                                   \    bj L k si
*- '    s > !-i   .. * *   g          BOO AC                  Tesslac          Lu l
<~~~~ R TI                                     Drvar                    roic 0                                   r  
t44    r \                                                                                                                        Glimoca --\ Jari,rOL
B                 Bos. Krupc I  '                                                   Ukranr Livno    BAMA    Dia ca 
t     L                         I PodQr.odrnat \ ,Duno           jab ornj                   c
2~~~                                        ~        ~~~~~~ \t  [                  ,RARAbOICA /A 
Spl k               KrMotev     K or         Stan cSALAKOYe
t   ~ ~ ~      ~              _   _~~~~~~'    \               | ~~~~~jtluk,-                 N 
-43.                                                                                              - ;    e     (.APiJINA \
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W Neuni                                                                         I';
A driatic   Sea                                                                                          Po  l,t/e
Mtkoniic G  AJCE
0     0             40        60        80        10_                                                               \
KILOMETERS '0 '0 '                          '         '                                                             DUBR   1W
.                      ~~~~~16                                    1 7                                      18-



IBRD 18478
190                               20'                                21-
E motinovo
Dakovo
Vinkovic 
T= ,                                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                     450
BELGRADE
r           \   ,               /nT9 
IA            '\-tJUGLJEVIK d J/6i<
oc t--~~fr 6     2on
- O~~~~~~~-                  i
TUZIA  ,L                                                           YUGOSLAVIA
Tuzla                          VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
||/s)          4t                POWER SYSTEM OF BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
KlbcJni  Vlnsen.cu                                   PLANNED OR
EXISTING  ~UNDER       PROPOSED
-S//   |~    ) |  ;  o EXISTING   CONSTRUCTION    PROJECT
S,ebrenLc|    -                                             Transmission Lines
I_                 -      aoo400 kV
220 kV                   440-
11 1/ KAKAr,JJ     |T ~~-             -- -                                 110 kV
=_;1I  I        Sni.OIO(     OVisegrOd                                              Substations
A Vares -A.                                                                    400 / 220 / 110 kV
FI    S      Pole     __           Rudo        A            A                     220 / 100 / 35 kV
t-  \.  RO9t-                                _             -    Hydro Power Plant
Screvo                  e                                                      Thermal Power Plant
/          X      _>                             Main Roads
rfl T                        -                                Railwaso R dwoys
:.1 *OWV. c/    \   SPlievii- --     Rivers
7ovi                                       N) 2Repubiv- Boundaries
k 6- i ela                                           i - nternotionol Boundaries
;inie '        X                               :                                            21°
PIVA                                                                      I I
GACKO    i..JAUSTRIA_ _-                                                       HUNGARY
3°-    -                    _. ROMANIA
/  s   s                                       f    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y U G O  S L AV  I A  t
/   B,Itea coz                                                                  BOSNIA-  \(. (r
~ "~w br.. -..c ....... bb   AHERZEGOVINA
~ ~r.,fio.~-k~-  .fr  
I.~~~~~~ c           -   ~   -   1.f  fIb. '
190REBINIE  Nl Sl(  FX r  VK-iPrrhS       kz0- GREECE
SEPTEMBE,,,4R 1






