DoEkait of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10242-YU Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9 069/ OEDD3                             RqautNo.  10242
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2527-YU)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Operations Division
Eastern European Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Thb. document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRE3NCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - New Dinar (ND)
Market Rates
(at year-end)
1982  US$1  -     ND 0.009           1987  US$1  -      ND 0.124
1983  US$1  -     ND 0.013           1988  US$1  -      ND 0.521
1984  US$1  -     ND 0.021           1989  US$1  -      ND 11.816
1985  US$1  -     ND 0.031           1990  US$1  -      ND 10.657
1986  US$1  -     ND 0.031           19-1  US$1  -      ND 23.00*
WEIGHTS AND MEASULE
m                              - Meter ( 3.28 feet)
km                             - Kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg                             - Kilogram (2.205 pounds)
1 metric ton (ton)                         - 1,000 kgs (2,205 pounds)
1 kilocalorie (kcal.)                      - 3,968 British thermal units(Btu)
1 barrel                                   - 42 US gallons - 159 liters
1 kilovolt                                 - 1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt                                 - 1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                            - 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 kilowatt - hour (kWh)                    - 1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt - hou-; (GWh)                   - 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh)
1 megavolt - ampere (MVA)                  - 1,000,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 hertz (hz)                               - 1 cycle per second.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAL              -  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CI                -  Community of Interest
COAL              -  Composite Organization of Associated Labor
EPBIH             -  Elektroprivreda Bosne I Hercegovine (Power
Organization of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Borrower)
HED               -  Hidroelektrane Na Drini (the Executing Agency)
LRMC              -  Long-Run Marginal Cost
SDK               -  Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovosdsta or Social Accounting
Service (SAS)
SMCI              -  Self-Management Community of Interest
SRMC              -  Short Run Marginal Cost
WASP              -  Wien Automatic System Program.
WC                -  Workers' Council
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* end April 1991



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oice dE Oectuw-CeneruI
Op.ratkmn Evakaaentk
December 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Visetrad Hydroelectric Proiect (Loan 2527-YU)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a. report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Visegrad Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2527-YU)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office and Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
'~~
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
XYUGOSIAVIA
VISEGRAD HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2527-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE                                                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................. ................ ii-v
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                   1
Project Design and Organization .................... ............  3
Project Implementation.                                              4
Project Results.                                                      8
Project Sustainability .......................................... 10
Bank Performance .10
Performance of the Borrower and Executing Agency .12
Bank Comments on Borrower's Review .13
Performance of Consultants .14
Performance of Contractors .14
Project Relationship .14
Project Documentation and Data .14
PART  II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE            15
ZARZ_III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                   20
I'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their ofScial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2527-YU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Visegrad
Hydroelectric Project, in the Republic of Bosnia - Hercegovina (BH), in
Yugoslavia, for which Loan 2527-YU in the amount of US$125 millior was
approved on April 30, 1985. The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, one
year behind schedule. The unutilized balance of US$102,277.38 was cancelled
on April 30, 1991.*
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure, Energy and
Environment Operations Division of the Eastern European Department of Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), the Borrower, EPBIH, and the Hidroelektrane Na Drini, the
implementing agency (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in April 1991; and it is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports; quarterly project progress reports; correspondence
between the Bank, EPBIH, and HED; and internal Bank documents.
* Also the date of last disbursement.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLhVIA
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2527-YU)
EVALUJATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The project objectives were to: (i) promote development of
domestic energy resources through the production of hydro-based electricity,
and thereby reducing the country's dependence on imported energy; (ii)
strengthen the Borrower's financial management, planning, budgeting and
auditing capabilities; and (iii) improve the Borrower's capabilities in
construction management and supervision.
Implementation
The main civil works for the construction of the dam and
powerhouse, engineering design, and construction supervision were carried out
by internationally known and experienced Yugoslav engineering firms.  The
supply and erection of major equipment and machinery were done by experienced
foreign and local contractors. Under the overall supervision of
Elektroprivreda Bosne I Hercegovine (EPBIH), the Borrower, Hidroelektrane Na
Drini (HED), the project executing agency, was responsible for on-site day to
day management of the project. An engineering review board ensured that
constru ^tion was carried out in accordance with sound engineering practices.
At the time of Bank appraisal, the main civil works contract had been awarded
under EPBIH financing and the preliminary works was already completed.
Construction was then targeted for completion in 55 months, with all three
power generating units operational by end-February 1989. Due to the initial
mobilization difficulties of the main civil works contractor, and delays in
the setting up of the project management team of the Borrower, the
construction schedule had to be slipped by about eight months, and was
retargeted for completion by end-1989. However, c -truction of the main
power plant, resettlement of the affected 250 households, relocation of a main
highway and other social infrastructure was completed in August 1990, about 8
months behind the revised schedule. The factors contributing to the delay
were unexpected heavier than normal floods, delays in delivery of some of the
equipment due to design changes, and local financing difficulties (para
5.02(i)). Some of the lost time was made up through work acceleration by
maintaining a labor force of about 3,000 continuously over the three years of
peak construction, and through effective construction coordination and
management. No major geological problems were encountered. The Bank loan
financed the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of construction
materials, hydro-mechanical and electrical machinery which constituted about
32% of the total project cost (para 5.10). Procurement proceeded smoothly.
The unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in Yugoslavia caused financial
difficulties for the Borrower. However, timely financial relief provided



- lii -
through amendraent of the loan repayment schedule helped avert significant
delays in project implementation (paras 5.02(v) & 8.01).
Project Results
Physical Objectives: The physical objectives of the project have
mostly been met. It was completed as designed, and all the three power
generating units and systems are functioning satisfactorily.
Environmental aspects of the project have mostly been
satisfactorily addressed to meet republican requirements and Bank guidelines.
These include human resettlement and compensation, relocation of communal
facilities and roads, protection of endangered fishery and historical
monuments and relics (para 5.04). Construction of the fish hatchery is yet to
be completed, but, meanwhile, the endangered species are being bred at another
hatchery to restock the river. The total project cost was 46% above appraisal
estimate mainly due to inflation (para 5.08).
Economic Impact: In spite of the increase in project cost (4% in
real terms), the least-cost justification of the project is still valid (para
6.06). The economic rate of return on the project investment is about 12%,
compared to 10% calculated at appraisal on the country-wide power sub-sector
investment program (paras 6.05 & 6.07). In addition, the project has
contributed favorably to both the national and local economies through
employment generation during construction. It also led to transfer of
technology to Yugoslav equipment manufacturing firms through joint partner
arrangements with some of the internationally experienced equipment suppliers.
Financial Impact: The financial objectives were not achieved.
EPBIH, like the other power entities, did not comply with the LRMC covenant in
the Loan Agreement which called for adjustment of electricity prices to
economic levels (para 6.11). Its financial position has remained weak because
of inadequate tariffs in the face of high inflation. In 1983-86, EPBIH could
not generate sufficient revenues to cover operating expenses, neither could it
meet its debt service obligations nor make contributions to its investment
program. Although the situation showed slight improvement in 1987-1989, it
was still far below appraisal expectations of healthy financial performance
which was based on electricity tariffs being appropriately adjusted (Part III,
Section 5. C).
Training to strengthen the Borrower's capabilities in accounting,
financial management and planning, and auditing achieved only partial success
because of lack of basic education of accounting staff in generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), and the persistent changes in Yugoslav
accounting laws, among other factors. The training of EPBIH staff in modern
financial management information system (MIS) did not materialize for these
same reasons, and the lack of enthusiasm on the part EPBIH management, whose
main preoccupation was to complete the project's physical works. Audit
reports continue to reflect numerous qualifications and disclaimers. EPBIH's
finances, therefore, still remain weak.



- iv -
Sustainability
Project benefits can be sustained if EPBIH operates and maintains
the plant in accordance with sound engineering practices. EPBIH staff have
extensive experience, dating from 1955, in the operation and maintenance of
hydropower plants. However, the main determining factor of sustainability is
EPBIH's financial position, which must improve, for EPBIH to provide adequate
maintenance of its plants and the needed quality of service. EPBIH has to
continue to be a well managed and financially sound utility if the project
benefits are to be sustained. To achieve this, tariffs and debt must be
constantly reviewed to keep a healthy balance between its revenues and
obligations, and to generate sufficient funds for operations, as well as for
future expansion to meet anticipated demand. Now that EPBIH has the authority
to adjust its electricity prices, it should be able to improve its financial
position, subject to restrictions that may be posed by the difficult economic
conditions in the country (para 6.11).
Lessons Learned
Economic Conditions and Financial Performance of the Borrower:
Accelerating inflation and the lack of frequent and adequate tariff changes
led to serious financial difficulties for the Borrower. Uncertainty in an
inflationary economic environment calls for periodic and timely review of
financial performance to identify difficulties and establish appropriate
timely remedial actions. Under such circumstances, Bank financial supervision
should be more intense to provide assistance to the Borrower in maintaining
sound financial management and to provide timely information to the Bank to
enable appropriate remedial actions to be taken. However, this could not be
sufficiently done, primarily, because of staff and budgetary constraints (para
8.05).
Electricity Pricing: Under the Third Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2338-XU) preceding Visegrad, a LRMC pricing covenant was applied in
place of the traditional financial covenant and was, subsequently,
incorporated in the Visegrad Loan Agreement. The idea of LRMC pricing was
evolved under the Bank's First Structural Adjustment Loan to Yugoslavia (Loan
2326-YU) in 1983, in an attempt to improve efficiency of investments and
operations 'n the power sector. Because of the uneven distribution of energy
resources in the country, a national least-cost power development program was
seen as a way of improving the efficiency of investments. Under SAL I, the
responsibility for setting electricity prices was shifted from the Republics
to the Federal Government. The Bank assumed , wrongly as it turned out, that
the Federal Government could influence investment decisions, and it would be
in the economic interest of the Republics to adopt a national least-cost
development strategy. A national least-cost power investment program, which
is the main prerequisite for determining LRMC, was never established. The
Borrower, like all the other power entities, defaulted or. the covenant.
Without any other basis of setting prices or judging the financial soundness
of the power entities, difficulties arose between the Federal Government and
the power industry on price adjustments. The key lessons are: (i) due to the
fragmented nature of the political system and the autonomy of Republics on
investment decisions, it appears very difficult to obtain national sector-



v
wide agreement on matters that affect the investment choices of the Republics;
and (ii) pricing covenants should be designed and clearly specified to meet
set financial objectives of the concerned power entity or Borrower and to
promote economic efficiency as a longer term objective. These should be taken
into account in the design of pricing covenants in future loan agreements.
Financial Maniagement: When a principal project objective is
improvement in the Borrower's capabilities in financial management, accounting
and auditing, appointment of a resident expert, for a limited duration, to
train utility staff would appear necessary to ensure that provisions in the
Loan Agreement are implemented. Considering the long period of Bank
involvement in the power sector in Yugoslavia (para 8.05 & Part III, Section
1), and the lack of substantive progress in improving accounting and financial
management, a fresh look at Bank strategy in this area is necessary.
Technical assistance (TA) to assist the power entities to improve accounting
and financial management should be considered in future lending operations.



YUGOSLAVIA
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2527-YU)
PROJECZ COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name             Visegrad Hydroelectric Project
Loan No.                 2527-vTJ
RVP Unit                 EMENA Region
Country                  Yugoslavia
Sector             :     Energy
Subsector                Power
2.    Background
2.01        During the period 1970-80, electricity demand on the Yugoslav
integrated power system grew at about 8.6X per annum. On the basis of that
experience, and the expected future performance of the Yugoslav economy,
demand was projected to grow at about 5.7% per year in 1985-90, and 5.4X p.a.
during the subsequent five years. Planning studies carried out at the
national level indicated that about 6,400 MW of new generating capacity would
be need-d by 1995 to meet the demand. Furthermore, the studies indicated that
by 1991, demand would outstrip supply, leading to significant shortages.
Capacity additions to the system was, therefore, necessary. In additon,
construction of the 700 MW Kolubara "B" Thermal Power Plant and associated
Tamnava West Lignite Mine of 6 million tons per year capacity, which had began
in late 1984, could not be completed by 1989, because of the large mining
component, and the difficulties in mobilizing the financing required.
2.02        Apart from the Kolubara "B" Project, the Visegrad Hydroelectric
Project was among the few other projects whose preparation had advanced and
could be completed in time to meet demand on the system in the most economic
manner. The Buk - Bijela Hydropower Project for which the Bank, in 1975,
approved a loan of $70 million to Elektroprivreda Bosne I Hercegovina (EPBIH),
could not be constructed because of inter-republican dispute between
Bosnia - Hercegovina, Serbia and Montenegro regarding the use of the waters of
the Drina, Tara and Piva rivers. The loan was not declared effective because
it was not ratified by the Federal Assembly. Therefore, the proposed Visegrad
Hydroelectric Project, located downstream of Buk - Bijela and entirely in the
Republic of Bosnia - Hercegovina, became the next most attractive one. It was
in the above context that the project was formulated. It had been studied
extensively as one of the 30 hydropower sites for future development on the
Drina River. Studies carried out by consultants appointed by EPBIH, which
considered also the constraint on the development on Buk - Bijela, established



the Visegrad Project as part of a national least-cost generatien expansion
program, and required in the power system by 1989.
2.03         Unlike thermal power plants for which financing was more readily
available through suppliers' credits, financing for hydropower plants was much
more difficult to obtain because the civil works, which represent more than
half of project costs, have always been undertaken by local firms. The labor
laws of the country made it lifficult for foreign firms to undertake major
civil works contracts. The - ; became a lender of last resort and was
requested by the Federal Gi _.ment to consider the project for financing. A
Bank identification mission visited Yugoslavia in January 1983, and after its
review, recommended the project for Bank financing. Its location in a less
developed republic was an added advantage. Bank appraisal of the project took
place in June/July 1984.
3.    Proiect Obiectiv    and Description
3.01        Project Ob]nctives:  The objectives of the project were to:  (i)
promote economic develoninent of indigenous energy resources through the
production of hydro-bLr-.; electricity, thereby reducing the country's
dependence on imported energy; (ii) strengthen the Borrower's financial
management, planning, budgeting and auditing capabilities; and (iii) improve
the Borrower's capabilities in project construction management and
supervision.
3.02        Proiect Description:  The project comprised the construction of
hydroelectric works on the Drina River near Visegrad, as follows:
(a)   a concrete gravity dam (52 meters high by 270 meters long)
on the Drina River with a reservoir of about 160 million
cubic meters, and a powerhouse with three 105 MW units. Its
annual average energy production would be about 1,120 GWh
and its firm energy about 858 GWh per year;
(b)   315 MW step-up substation at 400 kV and a transmission line
5.4 km long at 400 kV;
(c)   relocation of about 65 km of roads, comprising 15 km of primary,
20 km of secondary, and 30 km of tertiary roads; resettlement of
250 families; compensation for 134 hectares of land; relocation of
475 public buildings; and protection of the endangered fishery,
historical monuments and relics; and
(d)   consultancy services for construction supervision.  Training
program for the staff of the Borrower in financial
management, and to set up adequate management information
system, and appointment of a panel of experts to advise on
construction, testing and commissioning of the plant.



- 3-
4.    Project Design and OrXanization
4.01        The project design concept was considered appropriate to ensure
that it would contribute to meeting demand for electricity on the national
integrated power system in the most economic manner. Its justification was
established on this basis. The feasibility studies were carried out by EPBIH
assisted by experienced Yugoslav engineering consulting firms. At the time of
Bank appraisal construction of the preliminary works was already completed
with EPBIH funding. Detailed engineering designs of the project had been
completed for the dam and the powerhouse and the main civil works contract had
been awarded. In addition to the extensive geological and other technical
studies undertaken by EPBIH and its consultants, the Bank engaged the services
of two world renowned engineering consultants (one engineering geologist and
the other a structural design specialist) to review the geological and seismic
design criteria of the structures. The recommendations of these experts were
accepted by EPBIH and necessary modifications were made to the designs.
4.02        Under the overall supervision of EPBIH, the Borrower and project
financier, the project was executed by Hidroelektrane Na Drini (HED), a work
organization which was established for the purpose, and with which the Bank
entered into a separate project agreemert. HED had the overall responsibility
for award of contracts, coordinating and directing all project activities.
HED engaged a capable local engineering firm with international experience,
which also carried out the project design, to provide engineering supervision
of the project. Contracts for the civil works had been awarded to an
internationally reputed local civil works construction firm, which had earlier
carried out satisfactorily the construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
hydropower projects on the Middle Neretva River for EPBIH. In addition,
HED/EPBIH agreed to engage a panel of independent experts to carry out
periodic reviews of the construction works to ensure that they would be
carried out in accordance with sound engineering practices, especially, the
safety of the dam.
4.03        Apart from the proposed Bank loan of $125 million, equivalent,
arrangements were made for obtaining the complementary financing required for
the project. The steps included: (i) approval by the Republican Assembly of
the 1983-90 power subsector construction program, including the Visegrad
Hydroelectric Project; (ii) provision of the required financing of the
construction program by the Community of Interest (CI) from the republican
"pooled funds" and such additional funding that might be required; (iii)
financing of the investment program from the pooled funds of the Borrower;
(iv) provision of funds from Federal Government grants for underdeveloped
republics; and (v) the Borrower entering into lending agreements with local
commercial banks for complementary finan.cing.  These undertakings by the
Borrower were part of the Bank Loan Agreement with the Borrower
(Preamble to LA). In addition, specific covenants were provided in the Loan
Agreement to enable EPBIH to generate funds through adjustment of tariffs to
LRMC levels (Section 5.04 of LA), for annual reviews with the Bank of updated
project costs and corresponding financing, to update the medium-term
investment program of EPBIH and to obtain Bank approval to undertake
investments in excess of US$20 million (Section 4.06 of LA). Arrangements
were made for annual audit of the accounts and financial statements of EPBIH



- 4 -
by the Social Accounting Service (SDK-SAS), which, among other things, would
provide adequate information on the financial condition of EPBIH for remedial
actions on project financing to be taken, as warranted.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.01        Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-un:   The loan was approved
on April 30, 1985 and became effective on October 21, 1985, about one month
ahead of schedule. There were no special conditions for loan effectiveness.
This enabled project works to proceed as planned. (Part III, Section 2)
5.02        Implementation Schedule:  At appraisal, the target was to complete
project construction in 55 months, with the start of construction of the main
civil works in early August 1984, and commiss.oning of the third and last
power generating unit by end-February 1989. However, actual construction was
completed with the commissioning of the last power generating unit in early
August 1990, about 17 months behind the original appraisal schedule. The
delay was due to the following five main factors.
(i)   Tight Construction Schedule:  The construction
schedule prepared at appraisal was optimistic.
Although, the main civil works contractor and the
contractor for the engineering supervision, on whose
proposals the schedule was based, had already been
contracted (para 4.01), experience with construction
of similar projects in a deteriorating economic
environment should have suggested a more conservative
schedule.
(ii) Contractor Difficulties: The main civil works
contractor had financial problems in mobilizing at the
project site. The erection of the concrete plant was
significantly delayed as a result, and its operation
was hampered by initial technical problems. This
caused a slippage of about eight months in the
implementation schedule, with completion retargeted
for end-December 1989. The main civil works
construction was not began until April 1985. Due to
lack of funds, the local equipment suppliers had
difficulties in obtaining foreign exchange to procure
the required materials for the manufacture of
equipment. This also necessitated revisions to the
supply contracts to allow for direct payments by the
Bank to the foreign suppliers cf the required imported
materials. This led to some delays in the delivery of
some of the essential equipment for the power plant.
(iii) Project Management Organizational Problems: The
Borrower encountered initial difficulties in engaging
the personnel with the requisite experience for its
in-house project management team. This caused about
two months delay in project execution. However, once



- 5 -
this problem was solved, project management performed
well.
(iv)  Bad Weather:  Unexpected heavy floods from late autumn
of 1985 through the spring of 1986, and extreme cold
winter days led to several work stoppages totalling
about three months. Even after the floods had
subsided, construction work was hampered by persistent
high ground water levels in the excavated areas.
(v)   Financial Difficulties:   General deterioration in the
Yugoslav economy during the period of project
execution, especially high inflation, adversely
affected EPBIH's financial condition. Earlier gains
made in electricity tariff increases (see Part III,
Attachment II), were quickly eroded. Moreover, the
Federal Government kept a tight control on price
adjustments. From early 1987, EPBIH began to face
serious difficulties in meeting payments to local
contractors. It was apparent that significant delays
in project completion would occur if EPBIH was
unsuccessful in mobilizing additional financing.
EPBIH had reache-d the limit of borrowing from the
local banks, and could not raise the required funds
from other local sources. A timely relief provided by
the Bank through an amendment to the loan repayment
schedule helped release additional financing (para
8.01), which averted potential significant project
implementation delays.
5.03        After the start of main civil works construction, work was
accelerated to make up for the lost time. Construction equipment and
materials were made readily available at the site, activities were carried out
in parallel, as much as possible, to meet the key construction targets.
Through effective coordination and excellent engineering management,
construction was maintained at its highest peak for a period of three years
with a labor force of 3,000/year. Because of extensive geological studies
undertaken and experience gained on previous projects on the Drina River, as
well as from those on the Middle Neretva River, no major geological problems
were encountered. Special attention was paid to the grouting campaign to
prevent leakages. Procurement problems were solved expeditiously (para 5.06).
As a result of these actions, some savings in the time lost (para 5.02) were
achieved. The first and second power generating units were commissioned on
February 15, 1990 and on April 25, 1990, respectively. The third unit was
commissioned in August 1990 instead of June 1990 because of design changes to
the 400 kV substation, which delayed the connection of the power plant to the
national 400 kV transmission grid. Project construction was completed in 64
months instead of the appraisal estimate of 55 months.
5.04        Environmental AsRects:  The environmental aspects of the project
were thoroughly reviewed by the Bank during appraisal. The impact of the
reservoir on the environment was relatively small because it was contained



- 6 -
almost entirely in the present canyon. Moreover, because of the alpine
climate of the area, no water borne diseases occurred. During project
implementation, progress of environmental works was closely monitored by the
Bank as part of regular supervision and through the quarterly progress
reporting on implementation. The Bank also engaged the services of a
fisheries expert to advise HED and EPBIH on the protection of the endangered
fishery, and an anthropologist/resettlement specialist to review the progress
of works and assess adherence to the Republic's requirements and agreements
reached with the Bank. Resettlement of affected families (para 3.02) and
associated social infrastructure, as well as compensation for cultivated land
and other immovable properties were completed on target, before the start of
lake impounding. Except for a few kilometers of rural tertiary roads which
have not been constructed, all the roadworks, including a section of the main
Sarajevo - Dubrovnik Highway (15 km), have been completed, although with about
2 years delay. The delays were due to shortage of financing, which
necessitated that priority be given to completing the power station. Due to
shortage of local funds, construction of the fish hatchery is very much behind
schedule. Original plans were to have it completed by the start of lake
impounding. However, as a temporary measure, the hatchery at Mostar,
constructed under the Middle Neretva Hydro Project (Part III, Section 1), is
being used currently to breed the endangered fishery, which are being
gradually transferred to restock the Drina River. In addition, restaration
works on the foundations of the historical "Bridge on the Drina", which were
affected by the construction works on the dam (about 3 km upstream), have also
been delayed because local fund shortage. However, steps are in progress to
divert heavy traffic cargo from the old bridge to a new one constructed by
HED.
5.05        Procurement:  Procurement under Bank financing progressed
satisfactorily. The Bank loan covered 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
construction materials - cement and steel, construction equipment and
machinery, hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment. All these items were
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Due to the
extremely favorable international response to the bidding for machinery and
equipment, at the request of EPBIH, the loan agreement was amended to provide
financing of fuel for project construction under the Bank loan from the
anticipated cost savings.
5.06        Due to difficulties encountered by local suppliers in obtaining
necessary imported materials for manufacture of equipment, a number of
revisions to some of the equipment supply contracts with local contractors
under Bank financing, had to be made to enable direct payment in foreign
exchange to the suppliers (para 5.03). In such cases, tendering was done on
the basis of ICB.
5.07         In their audit report of the Special Account for 1988, the Social
Accounting Service (SDK-SAS) had expressed some qualifications concerning
inadequacy of documentation to prove that invoices for materials procured
under the Bank Loan (cement, steel and fuel) were matched by receipts of
materials at site. After its review, the Bank project team concluded that (i)
the lack of documentation arose from the civil works contract under which the
contractor supplied these materials from its own resources and invoiced them



-7-
to EPBIH as a proportion of the works completed and (ii) all the required
materials were on site. Other than this, there were no other major
procurement problems.
Proiect Costs and Financing
5.08        Project Costs:  At appraisal the estimated project cost, including
physical and price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction
was US$239.6 million, compared to US$351 million at project completion, a 46%
cost over-run. This was due, primarily, to price inflation. The cost over-
run was mainly in the local component. There was about 25% cost under-run on
equipment and machinery (para 5.05). Details of project costs at appraisal
and completion are provided in Part III, Section 4.
5.09        Proiect Financing:  The Bank loan was adequate to cover the entire
foreign exchange costs of the project. Due to difficulties in raising
tariffs, and the high inflation, EPBIH 's contributions to project financing
fell well below expectations. EPBIH's actual contribution from internal cash
generation was only US$840,000, equivalent, compared to the estimate at
appraisal of US$41million, equivalent. The shortfall in the contribution of
EPBIH had to be made up by increases in the consumer contributions, and
additional borrowing from the local commercial banks, suppliers' credits from
the local suppliers, and Federal Government grants (Part III, Section 4). In
addition, the ballooning of the loan repayments by the Bank, released
additional financing for the project (para 8.01).
5.10        Loan Allocation:  Initially, the Bank loan was allocated to cover
procurement of construction machinery, cement and steel, hydro mechanical and
electrical equipment and machinery, as well as, interest during construction
(IDC). Financing of fuel was later added (para 5.05).
5.11        Disbursements:  Estimated and actual disbursements are shown in
Part III, Section 3. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account was
established. The loan was officially closed on December 31, 1990, but
disbursements continued to April 30, 1991 to enable withdrawals to be made
against expenditures incurred on the project prior to the loan closing date.
The loan account was closed as of that date, and the unutilized amount of
US$102,277.38 was cancelled, after all eligible foreign expenditures on the
project had been met.
* Annual Inflation (X) - Based on CPI
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986   1987   1988   1989    1990   1991 (Agril)
29.5  39.0  56.7  75.7  88.1  118.8  198.6  1255.7  587.6          22.2
SOURCE: Yugoslavia Federal Statistics Office



-8-
6.    Project Results
6.01         Works:  Project works were generally completed as designed, all
units underwent trial operation without any major problems and are fully
operational. All of the 380 piezometers for continuous drainage and leakage
monitoring located in and around the dam have recorded drainage and leakage
well below the minimum expected. In addition, chemical analyses of water
samples taken from the piezometers show no mud or dirt depositions. These
indicate the success of the grouting for the dam and powerhouse.
6.02         The generating units have been in operation for a relatively
short period; Units I and II for about one year and Unit III for about seven
months (para 5.03). The output of the units have been below expectations
because 1990 was a relatively dry year. Flows in the Drina River Basin in
1990 have been the lowest recorded in the last 40 years and, therefore,
electricity production has been much lower than expected. Plant output has
also been low because system demand has been below expectations due to the
depressed economic situation in Yugoslavia. The remaining environmental works
are expected to be completed as soon as the necessary financing becomes
available. These do not restrict plant operation.
6.03        Economic Results:  The Appraisal Report justified the investment
in the project because:
(i)   it was the top priority investment in the national
long-term (1983-2000) least-cost generation expansion
program, required in the power system in 1989 to meet
incremental demand for electricity; and
(ii)  the economic rate of return on the time-slice
investment program, of which the proposed project was
part, was estimated to be equal to the opportunity
cost of capital of 10%.
6.04        The least-cost justification was established by examining the
Visegrad project as one of a number of alternative generating candidates to
meet projected demand, using a dynamic optimization programming technique.
The analysis took into account the constraint on the development of the
Buk- Bijela scheme (para 2.02), and established the proposed project as the
top priority scheme needed in the system by 1989.
6.05        At appraisal, a 10% economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated
on the time-slice of the country-wide power sub-sector least-cost investment
program, including the Visegrad project, by comparison of costs and benefits
of the time-slice investment program. Benefits were taken as incremental
electricity sales valued at the economic cost of electricity supply (LRMC), as
a reflection of consumers' willingness to pay for additional electricity
consumption.
6.06         No attempt has been made to re-establish the least-cost
justification on the basis of actual and revised conditions of demand and the



-9-
current power system characteristics through another optimization analysis.
Instead, the acttual production cost is compared with the present "Common
Criteria Ceiling Price" [average price of 5 Western European Countries (See
Part III, para 5.04)] at the transmission level of about UScents 7.0/kWh.
taken as a proxy for the system's LRMC at the transmission level. The actual
production cost is about US cents 4/kWh, on the basis of firm energy output
taken as 75% of the average annual energy capability (1,120 GWh). The
calculated production cost is lower than the approximate estimate of
transmission level LRMC and, therefore, establishes the least-cost
justification of the project.
6.07        Since a revised least-cost investment program is unavailable, an
ERR on the investment in the project is estimated by comparing actual project
costs with the expected output of the power station. Benefits have been taken
as firm and secondary energy outputs valued at the winter peak period and
summer off-peak period tariffs, respectively. The ERR is estimated at about
12%, compared to the opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
6.08        The above analyses confirm the economic soundness of the project.
Details of assumptions underlying the analyses are provided in Part III,
Section 5. Computations are available in project files.
6.09        One of the indirect benefits accruing to EPBIH and HED from the
project is that its staff gained valuable experience in hydropower plant
construction supervision and management. The plant is now operated by a staff
of 100. It is also being used to train personnel in power plant operation
and maintenance. The technical expertise of the staff has been raised to a
much higher level as a result of the project.
6.10        Other benefits of the project are: (i) employment generation and
its positive impact on both the national and local economies (para 5.02); and
(ii) transfer of technology to Yugoslav engineering firms through the joint
partner arrangements with some of the international equipment suppliers for
the project.
6.11        Financial Results:  Comparison of appraisal estimates and actual
financial results is provided in Part III, Section 5C. The financial results
have not been wholly satisfactory, although, in some cases this has been due
to circumstances beyond the control of EPBIH. The main factor is the
inadequacy of electricity price levels. EPBIH, like all the other power
entities, did not comply with the LRMC covenant (Section 5.04 of LA) due to
the failure of the power entities to reach agreement on a national least-cost
investment program which would have served as a basis of calculating the LRMC.
In addition, the Federal Government exercised strict control on price
adjustments. Although, a number of tariff increases were made over the years,
these were often too little too late compared to the high inflation, which
reached about 1,200% in 1989 (see Attachment II). As a result, EPBIH's
financial position has remained weak. From 1984 to 1986, it could neither
generate sufficient revenues to cover operating expenses, nor meet its debt
service obligations and make an adequate contribution to its investments.
Appraisal projections showed a healthy financial position with adequate debt
service coverage and contribution to investment. This is because appraisal



-10-
projections assumed tariff adjustments to estimated LRMC levels. More
recently, the problem has been exacerbated by the inability of somne major
electricity consumers, especially industry, to pay the higher prices resulting
from the recent increases, because of the financial difficulties they 'ace due
to the depressed state of the economy.
6.12        Training to improve capabilities in accounting, financial
management and planning and auditing achieved only partial success. The main
reasons for this were: (i) the slow pace in improvement at the national level
in the governing regulatory framework and the lack of appropriate educational
and training facilities for accounting staff; (ii) persistent changes in
Yugoslav accounting laws; and (iii) communication difficulties. The quality
of audits remain below acceptable standards, and are frequently several months
behind schedule with numerous audit qualifications, including disclaimers.
For the same reasons, the study and training in modern financial management
information system (MIS) was also a failure. Although, the study was
completed after several delays, it could not be applied because it had become
obsolete by then. In addition, there was lack of enthusiasm on the part of
EPBIH management, whose main preoccupation was to achieve completion of the
works. EPBIH still needs to improve its accounting and auditing systems,
financial forecasting, planning, and management.
7.    Sustainability
7.01        The project's main benefit is the electricity generation that it
contributes to the power system. This benefit can be sustained if EPBIH
operates and maintains the plant in accordance witn sound engineering
practices. EPBIH has the technical experience and capability to do this.
EPBIH, in addition to Visegrad, has 11 hydropower stations in operation. Its
experience in hydropower plant operation and maintenance dates from 1955 when
the first hydropower plant in its system was commissioned. However, unless
EPBIH's financial performance improves, it may not be able to effectively
operate its power plants. Should the present precarious financial situation
worsen further, either because of inadequate tariffs or worsening macro-
economic conditions, (para 6.11), or both, EPBIH's ability to provide the
needed quality of service through adequate maintenance of its plant and
equipment could be jeopardized. EPBIH has to continue to be a well managed
and financially sound utility if the project benefits are to be fully
sustained. For this, EPBIH needs to review its tariffs and debt constantly to
keep a healthy balance between its revenues and obligations and to generate
adequate funds for operation and maintenance, as well as the needed expansion.
As of March 1990, the Federal Government transferred its authority to set
tariffs to the electric utilities and their respective Republican governments.
However, increases in electricity rates are not automatic but depend on the
country's fiscal situation in general, and in particular with industry's
ability to pay the appropriate electricity prices, which is not the case now.
8     Bank Performance
8.01        The project would have been an unqualified success were it not for
the Borrower's unsatisfactory financial performance. In order to prevent that
situation from having an even worse effect on project implementation, the Bank



-11-
acted with considerable flexibility in amending the loan repayment schedule by
reducing the repayment of US$10.4 million in 1989 to US$0.52 million and
spreading the rest over the future repayments within the original maturity
dates. This provided EPBIH with the urgently needed financial relief, which
released additional financing for project construction. The key
considerations by the Bank in this regard were the exemplary manner in which
project implementation was progressing, the unfavorable macroeconomic
situation which was beyond the Borrower's control and an undertaking by the
Borrower with the concurrence of the Federal Authorities to make the
appropriate adjustments to electricity prices.
8.02        The Bank exercised also good judgement by agreeing to the use of
the potential savings on the procurement of machinery and equipment to finance
fuel purchases for the project (para 5.50). Without this, the Borrower could
have experienced even greater financial difficulties in implementing the
project. At appraisal, the Bank identified the issues facing the project and
provided the appropriate covenants for handling them (para 4.03 & Part III,
Section 6) The Bank provided the needed technical expertise to review project
geology and seismic conditions and design, which helped in taking the
necessary safeguards to improve upon the original project design. Based on
the experience of the geological difficulties encountered during the
construction of the Middle Neretva hydropower plants, the Bank recommended the
appointment of an independent panel of experts to monitor project construction
and to ensure the performance of the works in accordance with sound
engineering practices, and also to advise on solutions to emerging problems
during construction. To provide additional input to the work of panel of
experts, the Bank retained the services of an international engineering
geologist to periodically review the geological aspects of the construction.
The Bank found this additional safeguard necessary to ensure that all relevant
expertise was available to execute the project. In addition, the Bank's
technical supervision of the project was intense and focused on problem
solving to ensure speedy implementation. Procurement problems were solved
expeditiously, in the field to the extent possible, and actions were taken
against emerging ones (para 5.05).
8.03        With hindsight, the absence of an appropriate financial covenant
in the Loan Agreement to complement that on LRMC was a mistake, although at
appraisal the objective was for improving efficiency through economic pricing.
The Bank failed to take account of the realities of the autonomy of republics
in investment decisions, and their interests. A national long-term least-
cost investment program which should have served as basis for estimating the
LRMC did not become a reality, leading to non-compliance with the covenant.
8.04        The unfavorable macro-economic conditions and its impact on the
financial position of EPBIH, was not foreseen at appraisal. The First
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) Agreement had just been signed, and
forecasts of economic indicators projected improvements in the economy through
the policy measures that were under implementation. However, the expectations
did not materialize; and further deterioration in the economy occurred
(para 6.11).



-12-
8.05        The Bank was unsuccessful in improving financial planning and
management, and auditing in the Borrower organization. This was due to
reasons enumerated earlier (para 6.12) and also to insufficient attention paid
by the Bank to this aspect. Financial supervision of this operation was
carried out in the context of the Third Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2338-YU), which involved all the various republican power entities, and
with limited supervision resources, adequate time could not be devoted to any
one single power entity. With hindsight, an external financial accountant
should have been appointed under the loan, as a consultant, to assist EPBIH in
improving its capabilities in this area. Bank lending to EPBIH dates from 1972
under the First Power Transmission Project (Loan 836-YU), and has since then
benefited from five other loans from the Bank in the power sector. With this
long association with the same Borrower over the years, more efforts should
have been made by the Bank to establish modern accounting and financial
systems in the Borrower's organization. This would have served as a model for
the other power entities.
9.    Performance of the Borrower and Executing Agency
9.01        EPBIH. the Borrower:  The overall performance of EPBIH was marred
by its unsatisfactory financial performance for which EPBIH was not entirely
to blame. This was because tariff action required concurrence at the power
industry level, nationally, and the Federal Government, which strictly
controlled prices. When EPBIH realized its internal generation of funds would
be inadequate to meet the financing requirements, it took immediate steps,
including requesting the Bank to revise the loan amortization schedule,
suppliers' credits and loans from local financial institutions to mobilize the
required funds for completing the project. Without these efforts, significant
delays in completing the project would have resulted.   However, EPBIH could
not comply with the undertaking to adjust its electricity prices, which was
one of the main reasons for the Bank agreement to modify the loan repayment
schedule (para 8.01).
9.02         EPBIH showed excellent managerial skills in the overall project
supervision. It ensured that HED employed the most competent staff and
delegated to RED the authority of day to day activities and decisions on
project construction coordination, without interference. Overall, EPBIH used
good judgement in project construction supervision.
9.03        HED. the Executing Agency:  The overall performance of HED in
project execution was excellent. The initial delays caused by technical
problems with the cement batching plant and the unexpected floods were partly
offset through effective management of construction, which ensured that all
construction equipment and materials were always readily available. HED,
assisted by its consultants and contractors showed high professional skills in
coordinating and maintaining effectively the complex activities of the work
force. All problems were handled efficiently as soon as they arose. HED
maintained close communication with the Bank project team throughout the
period of implementation. HED coperated with Bank consultants and showed good
professional judgement.



-13-
10.   Bank Comments on Borrower's Review
10.01       EPBIH and HED review of the project is provided in Part II. In the
review, the following remarks and suggestions were made for Bank
consideration in future operations (Part II, Attachment I).
(i) Delays of 20-30 days were experienced in the processing of
withdrawal applications by the Bank at the initial stages of
project implementation, which caused delays in payments to
contractors.
(ii) Quarterly reporting on proiects with 3 or more years
construction period should be changed to semi-annual reporting
instead.
(iii) Loan grace period should be changed from 3 to 5 years for
projects with more then 3 years construction period.
10.02       The Bank's comments and clarifications on the above are as
follows:
(i)  the initial delays in the processing of withdrawal
applications were due to the unfamiliarity of HED staff with Bank
procedures. Most often, withdrawal applications submitted to the
Bank were incomplete and had to be returned to HED for re-
submission. The introduction of the Special Account later
facilitated disbursements and no further delays were encountered;
(ii) the suggestion for semi-annual instead of quarterly
reporting may be suitable for projects which are seen to be
relatively problem free, but for major civil works of this nature,
more frequent reporting and close supervision are necessary to
ensure that unforeseen problems are identified for timely remedial
actions to be taken; and
(iii) the matter of loan grace period is Bank policy, which is
based on country considerations and other factors, and has been
subject to revisions. More importantly, prior to the Bank making
the loan, it established the capacity of the Borrower to meet its
finacial obligations, including servicing of the new debt.
Financial problems that arise in the course of project
implementation due to unforeseen circumstances should be addressed
on case by case basis through mechanisms other than changes in
Bank policy.
10.03       The review did not provide actual project cost in sufficient
detail. Only the annual expeditures aggregated by main item categories, civil
works, equipment, roads and others have been provided. Breakdown into base
costs, physical and price contingencies have not been provided separately.
This is because HED did not keep its records as such. Difficulties,
therefore, arose in the comparison of appraisal estimates with actual costs.



-14-
The analysis of project justification was done in financial terms and in
accordance with Yugoslav accounting laws, focusing on the ability of projected
revenues to meet expenses and debt service incurred on the project.
11.   Performance of Consultants
11.01       The performance of the Yugoslav firm of consultants that was
responsible for the design of the project and the supervision of its execution
was fully satisfactory. It had previous experience of similar construction
jobs and fully lived up to the expectations of HED, EPBIH and the Bank in
project engineering design and supervision.
12.   Performance of Contractors
12.01       The main civil works contractors (Yugoslav firms) had initial
difficulties of mobilization because of financial problems. However, their
performance on the whole was satisfactory. Construction techniques were
changed, with the concurrence of HED and its consultants, to solve unexpected
problems encountered during construction. Parallel activities, where
possible, were undertaken to make up for lost time due to initial mobilizatiorn
difficulties, and other unforseen problems. The construction works on the dam
and power house were completed in accordance with final designs. The
performance of the other contractors, both local and foreign, which supplied
and erected the mechanical and electrical machinery, was also satisfactory.
13.   Project Relationshig
13.1        The Bank's relationship with Federal and Republican Governments,
the Borrower, EPBIH and the implementing agency, HED on the project was
excellent. The teamwork among all parties involved was effective in achieving
satisfactory completion of the project.
14.   Pro1ect Documentation and Data
14.01       Both the Loan and Project Agreements were appropriate for
achieving execution of the project. The Loan Agreement also was adequate in
providing measures to improve accounting, auditing and corporate financial
planning. With hindsight, where it was weakest was the LRMC pricing covenant
because its implementation required agreement at the power industry level on a
national least-cost investment program which has been unattainable. In
addition, a full time external financial accounting consultant should have
been engaged for a period of about two years to help establish systems and
training of financial staff of the Borrower. The Appraisal Report of the
project provided a useful framework for the Bank, EPBIH and HED for regular
review of project implementation.   Documentation and data on the project are
adequate and are available in project files.



- 15 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0         The Borrower has submitted to the Bank a 103-page final report
dated May 1991 on its review of the project. The report covered technical
aspects of the project, including costs and financing, and provided a detailed
account of the project implementation, how problems encountered were solved,
and the effectiveness of organization and management of the project
construction. The report also covered details of the environmental aspects,
Borrower and implementing agency performance and relationships with the Bank,
and the Borrower's asssement of the project justication.
1.02        The report is available in project files.  However, the sections
on the relationship with the Bank, and the Borrower assessment of project
justification have been reproduced and attached (Attachment I). These are in
Sections 6.2 and 7, respectively, of the report. The Bank's comments on the
Borrower's review are provided in Part I (para 10).



6 -                       ATTACHMENT 1
5.2. .elations with tn1e international BanK            page 1 of 4
;uring implementation of the HPP 'P'iegrao Project. partl.y
financed out _f the  BRD _oan No. .=527-YU, services ano'
personnel of D? "!!E na Drini" did nct have any previously
acquired experience regarding conclusion of contracts of
loan, international bidding procedures and especially re-
garding utilization of the IBRD resources and relations
with. -BRD9 zut they nave been acquired during the implemen-
tation of the project ' tselt.
But, ;n spite of that inexperience, the Employer had no
problems id tmplementation Of the HPP Viiegrad project and
is fully tatisfied with the understanding and correct rela-
t4ons by representatives of IBRD snown in solving tne Pro-
blems-and requirements of 'che Employer.  That f4nally gave
the positive results in fulfilment of the terms required
for construction of thiu hydro-power plant.
Thanks to the expert experience of the members of IBRD de-
legation who were included in this project as well as their
ftLlingness to help the personnel of HE na Drini and Elektro-
privreda BiH in respect of the top-quality performance of all
activities related to the construction of HPP Visegrad, 'tis
project was implemented without any particular difficulties.
We nereoy would like to express our special gratitude to
Messrs. Reekie, Fernandez, Tuncay, Kwaku, O'Brien-Kumi, Ran-
ganathant Chandran, Leoni, Soad and others.
The understanding and correct reiation were mostly shown when
the Employer required modification of loan repayment plan in
tbe fovm of reduction of two repayments which were due in
1989 (ts well as the first one dated october 15, 1988), that
is, during impleUentaIton of the project, and which represent-
ed a great financial difficulty for the Employer.



I I                         ATTACHMENT 1
page 2 of 4
Jeograpnic diatance among d=Oiciles and services of :3RD
:ausea :nitially retara of payment :rocedures in some cases.
:. f;act, :hey were effected within 20 - 70 days.  However.
upon special acOcunt opening with UBB New 'Yrk Agenc  :in
Tebruary, '986 payment procedure was considerably expedit;-
ed ana facilitated.  We have to point out that there were
some ditficulties in the beginning cf utilization ef this
Revolving Funa.  7hoa :iffiCulties mainly arose from cur :-
experience and insufficlent knowledge of utilization proce-
dure of the same 'the Letter of Credit opening, problems in
submission of the orders), but they were successfully solved
with UBB.  :n spite of that, payment schedule was expedited
and recuced to s31X tO ten days wnicn considerably :'.f'-encea
due execution of works and delivery and mounting of equipment.
therefore, we hereby want to emphasize suitability of such
mode of payment.
Regarding regular reporting IBED on construction problems,
progress of the project and utilization of loan we think that
it would be reasonable to submit to the Bank semi-annual re-
ports, .nstead of quarter reports, when the projects the imple-
mentation of which lasts five or more years are concerned, ex-
cluding special occasions and circumstances which would re-
quire elaboration of extra reports.
We hereby would like to suggest the Bank to consider possibi-
lity of change in their regulations regarding grace period
duration for specific category of member countries, that is,
the projects which are implemented in them, because in the
case of HPP VISEGRAD project, grace period proved inadequate
(planned term for construction is 5 years and grace period is
3 years), thus resulting in difficult conditions Of execution
of works at construction of the hydro power plant (those con-
ditiones occurred as the result of reduced possibilitY to



; 8 -                     ATTACHMENT 1
page 3 of 4
;rovide funQs f:r financ.ng anrd cover of worKs, z:nce
a great amount :;f funds was spent .e repayment _:. an-
-."it4 es 4ust _ur:r  .e ceriod c" tne most :n.tensl.ve
activities regaraing i=plementation of the ;roject; as
veLl as in supernuman efforts and engagement of a'Ll  ar-
ticipants ir  the project. first _f all tr.e Empicyer arna
Contractor!.



- 19 -
ATTACHEMENT 1
~.-,. ..naisis results                            page 4 of 4
-y consiaering trne casic financiaal forecasts maae f'or tne
period '991 - 2004, assuming 130% ioilection ana :apac.ty
-,til.zat, n used as tne basis for evaluati_n of  nit,al
-nvestment ^rogramme, the following can be concluded:i
- Construct:cn f HPp ':'SEGRAD was fully feasi5le and it
shall .e able to fully meet all financial :omm:tments du-
ring tne perloa of operation,
- After - year :peration, 'PP VISE_RAD snall start to achieve
a high accumulation, thus contributing improvement of ge-
neral econom-- ^usi:ion and svstem of EP? BiH as well as Of
the wnole society,
- Reouct:on of ^ost price for 1 kWh curing the first S years
of operation can be achieved by providing long-t.erm high-
quality financing sources to finance the occurred outstand-
ing investment commitments, commitments under short-term
laons as well as the remaining investment works and commit-
ments.



-20-
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit                   Purpose                       Year of
Title                                                      Aoproval   Status             Comments
For the construction of the
1. Senj Hydro Electric       Senj Hydro Plant in Croatia.   1961       Satisfactorily     None
Project (Loan 277-YU)                                               completed
For the construction of the
2. Bajina Basta HEP           Bajina Basta Hydro Electric   1962       Satisfactorily     None
(Loan 318.YU)             Project in Serbia                        completed
For the construction of national
3. Power Transmission I       380 kV transmission network   1972       Satisfactorily     Helped to standardize
(Loan 836-YU)             for improved power                        completed          transmission equipment.
transmission and for efficient
utilization of generating
facilities. The loan was made
to all six republics.
For the construction second   1977      Satisfactorily      Same as above.
4. Power Transmission It      phase of national 380 kV                 completed
(Loan 1469-YU)            transmission grid. The loan
was made to all six republics.
Loan to EBH for the           1978       Completed          Problem of leakage of
5. Middle Neretva Hydro       construction of two hydro                                   Salakovac Reservoir
Project (Tranche I        plants cascade on the Middle                                 unresolved, although work
Loan 1561-YU)             Neretva River in the Republic                               to block sinking holes has
of Bosnia - Hercegovina                                     been on-going since 1983.
Training of EBH staff in                                    About 75 GWh/year is
accounting and financial                                    lost.
Management and
strengthening coordination
among various Republican
Power Entities.
Made to all six republics and  1983      Under              Suffered significant delays
6. Third Power               to two autonomous provinces               implementation     due to lack of effective
Transmission Project      for the construction of modern                               project management and
(Loan 2338-YU)            energy management system to                                  procurement problems.
improve efficiency of power
station operations.
Supplemental loan for the     1983       Satisfactorily     During lake filling, an
7. Middle Neretva Hydro       construction of the Second               completed          unexpected high rise in
Project (Supplemental     Phase of the Middle Neretva                                 the groundwater level on
Loan 1561-1-YU)           Project compi.sing the Mostar                                the left bank of the
Power Station.                                              reservoir occurred. To
prevent endangering the
underground structures of
a nearby textile mill, the
reservoir level has been
maintained at elevation 77
meters Instead of 78, the
maximum operating level.
Loss In generation is
about 20 GWh or 6% of
output. Problem yet
to be satisfactorily
addressed.



- 21 -
2. Zrp1ect Timetable
Item                  Date Planned      Date Revised        Date Actual
Identification        October 1983      October 1983        October 1983
Preparation           Mar/Apr 1984      Mar/Apr 1984        April 1984
Appraisal Mission    September 1984    Jun/Jul 1984          June/July 1984
Loan/Credit
Negotiations         Jan 28, 1985      March 4, 1985       March 8-11, 1985
Board Approval        June 1985          April 30, 1985     April 30, 1985
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness       Aug 17, 1985       Nov 17, 1985        Oct 21, 1985
Loan/Credit Closing  Dec 31, 1989        Dec 31, 1990        Dec 31, 1990
Project Completion   June 1989          June 1990           August 1990
2.01 Issues Raised at Each Stage of Proiect Cycle
The main issues facing the project at the Issues Paper stage
following appraisal and at negotiations, and the decisions reached on them are
as follows:
(i)   Financing:  The main issue was the timely mobilization
of the required financing for the project, considering
the ongoing and future investments of EPBIH and the
limitations on foreign borrowing established by the
IMF in consultation with the Federal Government. The
republican authorities and EPBIH confirmed that
additional financing for the investment program,
including the proposed project, would be raised
through additional consumer contributions, tariff
adjustments and through Self-Management Agreements
(SMA) to pool additional funds from the Self-Managing
Communities of Interest (SMCI), as well as from other
local sources. To ensure that adequate financing
would be available to complete the project, it was
decided by the Bank to provide specific provisions in
the Loan Agreement on the sources of local financing
and the required amounts (Preamble to the Loan
Agreement).
(ii) The Bank Loan and Co-financing: At the time of
appraisal, the Bank lending program for Yugoslavia
showed an allocation of US$80 million for the proposed
project. Based on the project cost estimate then,
about US$36 million equivalent, was required to close
the foreign financing gap. The issue was the
reluctance of EPBIH to obtain the required financing
through suppliers' credits, because of difficulties in
obtaining the import licenses, which required the



- 22 -
concurrence of the local Association of Equipment
Manufacturers. The other issue was the identification
of the possible co-financing sources and completion of
the necessary processes in time to avoid delays in
project implementation. With the agreement of EPBIH,
the recommendation of the appraisal team was for a
Bank mission to visit Yugoslavia to assist in the
preparation of a co-financing plan. By the time of
negotiations, EPBIH had not secured co-financing to
close the financing gap. The invitation for
negotiations was on the understanding that EPBIH would
accept suppliers' credit from a lowest evaluated
bidder on an ICB tender, if the terms were favorable.
At the negotiations arguments provided by the Yugoslav
delegation against suppliers' credit were that none
could be obtained at terms comparable to the Bank
loan, and would impose additional financial burden on
the country; and, moreover, the long local processes
for obtaining the approval to import would adversely
affect project implementation. These arguments were
accepted by the Bank and the loan amount was increased
to US$125 million to cover the total estimated foreign
financing requirements.
(iii) Electricity Tariffs: At appraisal, the issue was
whether the 47X increase in electricity prices
required for the effectiveness of the Loan Agreemuent
of the Third Power Transmission Project, to which
EPBIH is party, would be made on time, by October
1984. The delay in making the tariff adjustments
would adversely affect EPBIH's cash flow and
consequently the implementation of the project. It
was recommended that the LRMC covenant in Loan 2338-
YU be repeated in the Visegrad Loan Agreement.
Furthermore, EPBIH would need to increase its tariffs
and consumer contributions to achieve compliance with
the covenant. When the issue of tariffs came up at
the negotiations, the Delegation pointed out that the
Federal Government had taken over the responsibility
of setting electricity prices, and outlined the
various legal provisions and measures for future price
adjustments.
(iv)  Retroactive Financing:  Retroactive financing of about
US$6.9 million was required to meet advance payments
on contracts under Bank financing awarded prior to
loan effectiveness. Considering the importance of
keeping to the project implementation schedule and the
scarcity of foreign exchange in the country, the Bank
agreed to provide the retroactive financing required.



- 23 -
2.02 Comments:
(i)   Appraisal was advanced from September 1984 to
June/July 1984, because of earlier completion by EPBIH
of the additional studies on project justification and
the preparation of other technical documentation
requested by the Bank.
(ii)  Date of Loan effectiveness was advanced because the
required local procedures were completed earlier than
estimated.
(iii) Loan closing date was extended by one year because of
implementation delays.



-24-
3. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ MILLION)
ACTUAL AS
BANK                 APPRAISAL                                                 % OF
FY                   ESTIMATE                    ACTUAL                        ESTIMATE
1986                  46.0*                        19.3                        42.0
1987                  82.0                         52.1                        63.5
1988                 106.0                         98.9                        93.3
1989                 123.0                        120.4                        97.9
1990                 125.0                        122.5                        98.0
1991                 125.0                        124.9                        99.9
Date of last disbursement April 30. 1991.
*Includes retroactive financing and down payments financed under the loan as part of IDC.



*25-
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ MILLION)
A. Project Cos-ts
4.01
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
Local  Foreign Total
Civil Works                          60.1   10.1   70.2
Construction Materials               5.6   29.3   34.9
Construction Machinery                1.4    7.1    8.5
Hydro-Mechanical Equipment           4.2   12.3   16.5
Electro-Mechanical Equipment         7.8   38.7   46.5
Transmission Line                    0.2    0.5    0.7
Training                             0.1    0.1    0.2
Engineering                          6 3    -       6.3
Total Base Cost                      85.7   98.1  183.8
Contingencies'                       29.9   25.9   55.8
Total Proiect Cost                  115.6  124.0  239.6
Interest During
Constructon (IDC)                   17.3   27.4   44.7
Total Financina Reauired            132.9  15124 8 3
1/Comprising price and physical contingencies.
VDirect and indirect foreign exchange costs.
* Exchange Rate (January 1985) US$1 = 0.021 ND.
4.02                         CONSOLIDATED APPRAISAL ESTIMATE-
Loca   Foreian Tot6I
Total Civil WorksW                   97.5   50.6  148.1
Construction Machinery               1.9    9.0   10.9
Hydro-Mechanical Equipment           5.7   15.5   21.2
Electro-Mechanical Equipment         10     48.9   59.4
Total Prolect Cost                  115.6  124.0  Z3.
Interest During
Construction (IDC)                   17.3   27.4   44.7
Total Finacina Reauired             132.9  151.4  284.
I;Consolidation is done by proportional allocation of contingencies. This is done to enable comparison of appraisal
estimates with actual costs, for which contingencies are not separately provided.
k'Total Civil Works = Civil Works + Construction Materials + Transmission Line + Engineering + Training.



- 26 -
4.03
ACTUAL COST
(USS MILUON)
Iogpj   Forelan Total
Total Civil Works                  233.4  51.5  284.9
Construction Machinery               1.4    9.5   10.9
Hydro-Mochanical Equipment          2.1   11.5   13.6
ElectroMechanical Equipment        -2I2   -.A  A4.
Tgtal Proie                        246.1  104.9  351 Q
Interest During
Construction (IDC)                  25.3   20.0   45.3
Total Financina Recuired           271.4   124.9      
S. Prolec1 Finaning
4.04
Planned
(Loan/Credit)
Sggrces                             -Aareement              Revised               Final
(USS million)        (US$ million)        (USS million)
(I) IBRD Expenditure
Catoories
(1) Goods                    85.00                91.27                 91.26
(2) Special Account          4.00                  4.00                 4.00
(3) IDC before 10/14/1989    20.00                20.00                 20.00
(4) Unallocated              16.00                 0.08
(5) Fuel                                           9.65                 9.65
Ttig IBRD                       125.00                125.00               124.
(i) Domestic Co-Finandng
Insauons
Local Contractors Credits     -                                         25.83
EPBIH -Intemal Sources       41.00                                      0.84
Local Commercial Banks       4.20                                       24.62
Federal Funds                6.00                                       40.46
Loan by National Bank of
Yugoslavia                                                             37.12
Consumer Contributions                                                  19.9
Social Reproducton Fund     108.10                                      92.78
Outstanding Obligations                                                 29.8
Ta Domesc CoFinancing           193Ji
(ii) Total Prolect Financina
Unpaid charges and interest on local loans.
wmmenta
(1) The Bank agreed later to finance fuel because of the favorable responses rocoived on the ICB tenders.
(2) $102,277.38 of the loan which was unutilzed was cancelled offectve Aprl 30, 1991.



- 27 -
5.    Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Power Generation
Appraisal          Estimate at
Estimate          Full Development
(i)   Average Annual Energy
Production (Based on           1,120 GWh          1.120 CWh
Average hydrological
conditions)
(ii) Firm Annual Energy
Production (Based on             858 GWh            858 Gllh
on 95% probability of
dry conditions)
B. Economic ImRact
Appraisal         Actual
Estimate           (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return                   10%                     12%
(On the time-slice       (On the Project)
of power sector
investment program)
5.01        Underlying Assumptions
5.02        The Appraisal Report justified the investment in the project
because:
(i)   it was the top priority investment in the national
long-term (1983-2000) least-cost generation expansion
program, required in the power system in 1989 to meet
incremental demand for electricity; and
(ii) the economic rate of return of the investment program,
of which the proposed project was part, was estimated
to be equal to the opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
Electricity demand on the Yugoslav integrated power system was projected to
grow at about 5.7% per year in 1983-90, 5.4% each year to 1995 and 4.9% each
year thereafter. To establish the least-cost means of meeting the projected
demand, the analysis considered 32 hydropower and 5 thermal power plant
comprising lignite, brown coal, oil, gas and nuclear alternatives. Using a
dynamic optimization programming technique, the power system comprising the



- 28 -
existing and future capacity additions was simulated under 5 hydrological
conditions and 4 seasons per year, and optimized. The analysis took into
account the constraint on the development of the Buk - Bijela scheme, and
established that the proposed project was the top priority needed in the
system by 1989.
5.03        At appraisal, an economic rate of return (ERR) was not calculated
separately for the prcject, instead it was calculated for a time-slice of the
country-wide power sub-sector least-cost investment program on the basis of
comparison of quantifiable costs and benefits of the time-slice investments.
The time-slice included all the power projects that were under construction
and expected to be commissioned within the period of construction of the
Visegrad project. The costs consisted of capital, operation and maintenance
costs of generation, transmission and distribution to deliver electricity to
the final consumer. Variable operating costs were based on the system's short
run marginal cost (SRMC). Incremental output of the system at the time of
Visegrad commissioning was valued at the estimated LRMC in conformity with the
covenant (Section 5.04 of LA) to raise electricity prices to LRMC levels by
end-1987, as a measure of the economic benefits, and maintained at that level
through the fifty year plant-life. All costs and benefits were appropriately
shadow-priced and expressed in end-1983 prices.
5.04        No attempt is made to re-stablish the least-cost justification on
the basis of actual and revised conditions of demand and the current power
system characteristics through another optimization analysis. Instead, the
actual production cost is compared with the present "Common Criteria Ceiling
Price' (average price of 5 Western european countries)' at the transmission
level of about US cents 7.0/kWh, taken as a proxy for the system's LRMC at the
transmission level. The actual production cost is about US cents 4/kWh, on
the basis of firm energy output taken as 75% of the average annual energy
capability (1,120 GWh). The calculated production cost is lower than the
approximate estimate of transmission level LRMC and, therefore, establishes
the least-cost justification of the project.
5.05        An ERR on the investment in the project by comparing actual
project costs with the expected output of the power station. Costs are taken
as capital costs of generation, associated transmission and distribution to
deliver the output to final consumer, and the variable operating and
maintenance costs. Benefits are taken as firm energy output valued at the
average consumer price at winter peak period, and secondary energy output
valued at the average consumer price at the summer off-peak period.  The
consumer prices have been assumed to reflect consumers' willingness to pay for
the incremental electricity supply. All costs and benefits were expressed in
economic terms and in January 1991 prices. The ERR is estimated at about 12X,
compared to the opportunity cost of capital of 10%. Details of computation are
available in Project Files.
5.06        The above analysis confirm the economic soundness of the project.
1/A new basis of setting electricity prices in Yugoslavia introducted under
the Law on the System of Social Price Control (1990). It utilizes average
consumer electricity prices in Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Greece and Austria
to determine a ceiling for electricity prices in Yugoslavia.



- 29 -
5.07        One of the unquantifiable benefits accruing to EPBIH and HED from
the project is that its staff gained valuable experience in hydropower plant
construction and supervision. The plant is now managed and operated by a
staff of 100. It is also being used to train personnel in power plant
operation and maintenance. The technical expertise of the staff has been
raised to a much higher level as a result of the project.
5.08        The other benefit of the project is its employment generation and
its effect on both the national and local economies. At the peak period of
construction about 3,000 people per year were employed on the various works
for a period of about 3 years. The wages earned by these workers had
significant favorable effect on the local economy. Most of the contracts for
the supply, including manufacture of equipment and machinery, were won by
local firms. This also led to generation of additional employment and
transfer of technology to Yugoslav firms through the joint partner
arrangements with some of the international equipment suppliers for the
project.
C. Financial Impact
5.09        Computations of financial ratios are based on standard Bank
definitions. Comparison of actual financial ratios with estimates at
appraisal are provided below.
Financial Ratios                1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
(i) Net Internal Cash
Gen.! Invest. (X)
Appraisal estimate              neg   0.8   13.8  21.8  32.5  45.0  61.0
Actual                          neg   neg   12.3  neg   5.7   21.7  42.1
(ii) Debt service
Coverage
Appraisal estimate              0.9   1.0   1.4   1.5   1.9   2.4   2.9
Actual                          0.9   0.8   0.7   0.9   1.1   1.6   0.9
(iii) Rate of return
on Average net fixed
revalued assets
Appraisal estimate              1.1   1.8   4.7   4.9   7.1   9.8   9.8
Actual                          1.0   3.1   1.2   4.2   5.6   5.2   5.0
Comments:  Appraisal estimates show a stronger financial position than actual,
because of an increase of about 44% in electricity prices in 1983, and the
assumption that this was to be followed by periodic increases to bring the
prices to LRMC levels by December 31, 1987, and maintained in real terms
thereafter. Although, price increases were made, these were too little too
late compared to the high inflation (se Attachment, page 37-39). The impact



- 30 -
of the increases on the financial position of EPBIH varied from year to year,
depending on the magnitude, timing and the rate of inflation.
Notes to the Financial Statements
The summary financial statements of Income, Balance Sheet and Cash
Sources and Application of Funds were compiled from the reports on audit of
financial statements of EPBIH for each year 1983 to 1989. Statements for 1990
have not been provided because these are not yet available. They are to be
submitted to the Bank by September 30. 1991. The figures in the summary
statements have been taken as provided in the annual audit reports, and are,
therefore, subject to the opinions of the auditors expressed on the accounts.
Detailed definitions and explanations of figures can be found in the annual
audit reports. These notes only provide definitions of the some of the
statement items to enable comparison of the summary statements with the
detailed figures in the audit reports.
Balance Sheet
(i)   Accounts Receivable:  Comprise Bills and Trade
Receivables.
(ii) Other Receivables: Comprise other
receivables as defined in the audit
report, advance payments, and current
portion of long-term receivables.
(iii) Accounts Payable: Consist of Bills and Trade
Payables.
(iv) Other Current Liabilities: This is made up of all
current liabilities other than Short Term Loans,
Current Portion of Long Term Loans, and Accounts
Payable as defined above.
(v)   Equity:  Comprises Capital contribution of
Domestic Partner, Business Fund (owner's
capital contribution and retained
earnings), and Revaluation Reserve.



YUgOSLAVIA
ELBCTROPRIVEDRA BOSNA I HERCEGOVINA
VISEgR,AD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2527-YU)
PROJECT COMPLET1ON REPORT
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE PERIOD 1983 - 1989
BALANCE SHEET
Din Mililon
1983     1964     19851      19861      19871      19881       19891
- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.        .. _ __ _ __ _ _   .            I  __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
sAltS                                                      
Gross Fixes Asss                    257.102 1 370,4791 800.592   1,490,421   4,130.8071 16,227,455  505.337.6001
LoWs Accumulated Depreciation        95.355 1 147,2101 273,085    506.787   1,447.525   5.897,884  199.497,700 1
Nlet Fixed ASsets:                   1 i61,77<       wi X.                            i   .srt       .8.w0
Current Assets:                    ,                                                             
Banlceaianc.sadCscsh              | 1,4484   2.3581   4,010       11,07      2,s88) 1   61.457
Accounts ReceivaoI                I  5.674    9,268 1 27.435      54,177    163,516 j  347,404 I  7,360.240 I
Other Receivables                     1,140    1,823 1  11,784    21,788     23.5071   105,1911  2.168,90
intorties                             2,406    3.391  10,938      28,716     71,325 I   150,433    1,391.820
Total Curent Assets       >Q. _                          P         1
Other Asets                           326      41.428   28,690      57,880    146,882    714,090   14,874,890
Total Assets HIA                             '. 1W5 F 
Uabilities and Equity
Current Uabilitios
Accounts Payaolo                      4.756    6284   15,306      23.958     51,548 I   116,390    5,086.630 1
Short term loans                      5,0      1.56    13,183     16,197     21.654     72.951    453,030
Current Portion of Long Term Loans    5,806    8,627   16,525     24,898     92,921    232.26t   7.982.470
Other Current LUbIlitie              10,603   16,784   37.862     71,976    234,173    718,433    6,6S ,160
otal Current Liabilties
;-uity.
Capitai of Donmstic Patner            4,351    7.563   11.693     12.864     14,298     1&792      218,090
Business Fund (Rlined Earningsy      97,006  122.466  320,042    688,999   1,722,030   6,603,664  240.390,400
permanaent caPita
Rvaluation iR5SV5                        0        0         0          0    185,367    716.970
Total Eauity                                       _      i             S _



YUGOSLAVIA
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNA I I iERCEGOVINA
VISEGRAD HYDROELCTRIC PROJECT RLOAN 2527-YI )
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR TIIE PERIOD 1983 - 1989
INCOME STATEMENT
Din. Million
1983     1984     1985       1 986      i987       1988        1989
Operatng Revenue:
Sales                                29.078   50,877   92,126    197,904    481.566   1.346.873   19,999.580
Other Revenue                          3.395    5,369   17.500     12,966     33,269     87,538    4.429.650
Total Operatina Revenue                ;2                                                            ,429f230
Operating Expenses:
Fuel                                   9,913   16.506   29,480     51,156    131,088    405,617    5,756.220
Salaries and Wages                    3,949    5.918   13,486      29,790     65,946    190.483    4,103,890
Depreciation                          7,789    9,804   20.409      37,851     62,271    177,908     757,310
Other Operating Expenses              8,873   17,250   39.761      55.721    141.924    276,480    4,878,960
Total Ooeratina Exenses                 0524 ::40.48 .B         .:0:. : 1.74,518   2    1,.10,481   15,496,380
Operating Income                        1,949    6.768    6,490     36,352    113.606    383.923    8,932.850
Revaluation Adjustment                  -        -         -         -          63,686    157.205  (45,239,250)
Net Operating Income                    1,949    6.768    6.490     36,352      49,920    226,718   54,172,100
Obligatory Contributions to              468       811    1,853      4,630      11,375     45,475     971.800
Community
Funds (Taxes)
Interest Cliarges                       4,299    7,997   18,860     35,623      30,051    116.907    7,614,920
Exchange Losses                         ..-                - _                                     45.485,970
Net Profit (Loss8)2                                                    922)  ..0)  ,94     64,,336     99,410



YUGOSLAVIA
ELEKTROPRIVEDRA BOSNA I HERCEGOVINA
VISEGRAD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2527-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE PERIOD 1983 - 1989
CASH SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Din. Million
1983.    984      19851       19861      1987       19881        19891
Sources ot Funas
Ooerating Income                       1,949 1   6,768 i  6,490     36,352 1   113,606 1   383,923 1  8,932.850 I
Deoreciation                           7,789 i   9.804 i 20,409     37.851     62271      177.908 1   757,310
-otai ir.ernat Cash Generation          9,738    16.572   26,8M9 f    74.203    175,87?    561,3-!  980,S16 1
Consumer Contrioutions                  771       747      996       1,483 i    9,092      9,524 1    29,450 1
Domestic Partners' Contribution         280 1   4,130 1  4,036        610 1       536 1        0           0!
Other Local Sources (grants)           1,946 1   1,605 1  2.851     16,667 1    16.510    43,587      149,510
Foreign Borrowngs                     27.394 1  25,670 i 69,410 1   106,999    79,504 I   327,387    1,094,110
Local Borrowngs                        9,475             27,107     57,807     96,118    247.206    2,804.320
Total Sources                          49.* -0    48,724 jii.9         7,637                         1,?.
Application of Funds
Debt Service:
Principal payment on foreign loans   2,872    10,995 1  15,753    29,246      77,097    176.585 !  2.410,170
Princioal payment on local loans     3,218          |        i    13,489      4,811 I    26,206
Total interest payments              4,299     7,997 1  18.860 1    35,623 i    30,051 i   116,907 17,614920:
Total Debt Service                     10,389 |  18.992J 34631    788  A 15159 j   319,8   10,250
Investments                           23,723   25,211   119,086    146,893    213,981 1   801,686    7,043,190
Taxes and Obligatory Contributions      468       811    1,853       4,630     11,375 |    45,475     971,800
Variations in Working Capital         15,024    3,710  (24,253)    27,888         322 1   22,676   (4,272,530)
Total Aoolications                         0    48,72.       29  .-        .              ,          13,767w
Financiai ratios:
Net Internal Cash/                    N1A       N/A        1Z3      N/A            5.7       21.7        42.1
Invest (%)
Annual Debt Service Coverage    i    ___          0.B --7 -         .- . --   1   ti : s-



YUGOSLAVIA
ELEKTROPRIVEDRA BOSNA I I IlRCEGOVINA
V!SEGRAp  HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOQN 2527-Y! I)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR TI lE PERIOD 1983 1909
BALANCE SHEET (CON l
Din Million
1983     1984     1985        1 986      1987       1988         1989
Other Liabilities                       17,191    17.647   50.672     73.954    177.818    822,394   61,186,170
Long Term Loans                         59.627   94,672   145,079    244,376    611,291   2.408,284    6,488,030
Total Liabilities and Eguityr          204,622  276.0612:. 6.010.364   1,157,222   3,111,100  11,708,146  332,621.000
Financial Ratios
Rate of Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets (%)                    1Q3               .24.2                  0.6.25.
Current Ratio           _     ___  _                _                  0.6 06                 0          *.4
^Induded in Business Fund.



- 35 -
D. Studies
5.10 Management Information Systems
PurRose as defined at Appraisal
5.11        The Social Accounting Service (SDK) was to be engaged as
consultant to design a modern Financial Management Information System (MIS) to
improve the capabilities of the Borrower's staff in financial planning and
management, accounting and auditing. Thereafter, to train the Borrower's
staff in its implementation and operation.
Status
5.12        A draft of the study, in Serbo - Croatian was completed after
several delays. By that time fundamental changes in the local accounting laws
had taken place, rendering the study obsolete. As such, the draft report was
not transmitted to the Bank. The training of Borrower's staff did not take
place.
ImRact of Study
5.13        None.



-36-
S. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Deadline for
Cgvont              Sublet                        Compliance                               Status
LoansCredit
Section 2.02
(a)         Maintenance of Special Account                                           Complied with.
Section 4.06
(a)         Annual update of medium-term
plan of investments for
generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity
to determine short-term financing
plan for such investments;    Annually until project completion.        Not complied with.
(b)         Exchange of views with Bank
on (a).                       November 30, each year.                   Not complied with.
Section 4.07
(a)         (i) To employ the social                                                 Complied with but
accounting service (SAS);     September 30, 1985.                       delayed.
(ii) SAS to carry out a
study on improving the
Management Information                                                  Complied with but
System (MIS) of EPBIH;        September 30, 1987.                       delayed.
(b)         (i) Review with Bank
conclusions and
recommendations of SAS
on study;                     January 31, 1988.                         Not complied with.
(ID) Put into operation
revised MIS.                  June 30, 1988.                            Not complied with.
Section 5.01        Maintenance of records and
accounts adequate to reflect
sound accounting practices
of operations and financial
conditions.                   Annually.                                 Not complied with.
Section 5.02
(a)         (i) Audit of accounts and
consolidated financial
statements. By SAS;           Annually.                                 Complied wih.
(Ii) Audit of Special Account
by SAS;                       Annually.                                 Complied wih.
(b)         Audit of the accounts of the
project implementing agency
as (ID;                       Annually.                                 Complied with.
(C)         Submit to the Bank certified   September 30, each year for previous year  Complied with but
copies of audited accounts.   accounts.                                 delayed.



.37 -
Deadline for
oveanmt              Suble                            Comollance                                 Status
LonsLrsSC-t
,Agremen
Section 5.03         With regard to withdrawals on
the basis of statements of
expenditure, Borrower shall:
(a)          Maintain separate records and
accounts reflecting such
expenditures;                                                               Complied with.
(b)          Retain, for one year after loan
closing date records, (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts,
and documents) evidencing
such expenditures;              December 31, 1991.                          Yet to be verified.
(c)           Enable Bank examination;        Periodic.                                   Complied with.
(d)           Ensure inclusion of such
separate accounts in the
annual audit of financial
statements.                     Annually.                                   Complied with.
Section 5.04
(a)          Adjustment, at least annually, of
electricity prices, including
connection charges and non-
reimbursable consumers
contributions, to a level not
less than the average long run
marginal cost of electricity
supply;                         December 31, 1982.                          Not compled with.
(b)          On the basis of forecasts review
adequacy of tariffs to meet (a)
above in the current year and the
following year and provide to the
Bank for comments (i) findings of
the review, (ii) financing
projections for the two years; and                                         In partial compliance
(iii) budget arid financial plan for                                        prepared such
next Immediate fiscal year.     Three months prior to end of fiscal year.  forecasts only once.
Section 5.05
(a)          Prepare updated financing plan
for the project, Including a
schedule of estimated
expenditures.                   January 1, of each year.                    Complied with.
Fumish the Bank with such
update;                         March 1, of each year.                      Complied with.
(b)          Based on (a) Community of,
Interest (Cl) to provide                                                    Partially complied
required funds.                                                             with.



-38 -
Deadline for
Coynas              Sublet                         Compllance
Gu r rnt Agr"men
Section 5.06        Take satisfactory measures to
remedy qualifications made in
the audit report by SAS (SDK)                                          Partial compliance.
on the financial statements of                                         Further problems
EPBIH for the calendar year                                            created by dynamic
1982, and for other such                                               changes In Yugoslav
financial reports.            December 31, 1985                        Accounting Laws.
Section 2.02        Guarantor actions necessary
on its part to enable HED
to carry out its obligations
and the Borrower perform
obligations under Section
5.04 of Loan/Credit           (See Seciton 5.04                        Not complied
Agreement.                    of LA)                                   with.
Proiect Acreement
Section 2.04        Exchange views with the Bank
on progress of project
Implementation.               Quarterly                                Complied with.
Section 2.05        Establishment of organization
for management and operation
of the power station after
its completons.               By June 30, 1989.                        Complied with.
Section 3.01        Set up an Independent team of
experts for the periodic
Inspection of works to ensure their
performance in accordance with
sound engineering Practices.                                           Complied wiKt
Section 4.01        (i) Have accounts and firancial                                        Complied with, but
statements audited by the SAS;    End of each fiscal year.             often delayed.
(ii) Fumish Bank with audited
financial statements and
information that Bank may
request                       September 30.                            Complied wih.



- 39-
7.           Increase in Electricity Rates in Bosnia - Hercegovina
1.          The cash generation covenant under The Second Power Transmission
Project (Loan 1469-YU) was replaced by the LRMC covenant in October 1983 under
the Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU). The LMRC was never
estimated and the covenant has been observed in default by the power entities
in the country due to lack of agreement on a national least-cost investment
program which would have served as the basis of the LRMC estimation. Mainly
to improve financial position of the power entities, price increases continued
to be made. However, as inflation began to accelerate, the price increases
began to lag behind inflation. Between 1983 and 1985, electricity prices were
increased by a total of 130% compared to the rise in the wholesale price index
of industrial products of about 266%. In March 1986, the Common Elements (CE)
basis of setting electricity prices was introduced. The CE sets target prices
based on historical financial costs of electricity supply and some elements of
electricity prices in international exchanges. The calculated target price
for EBH was Din 2.07/kWh (US cents 9/kUh). Periodic adjustments in
electricity prices continued but were always behind inflation which had risen
to unprecedented levels. As of January 1989, the average electricity price
was only 41% of the CE target. In 1989, a total increase of about 3,200% was
made in electricity prices compared to the rise in the wholesale index price
of industrial products of about 2,700% in the same period. In September 1989,
yet another basis of electricity pricing-the so-called Common Criteria (CC)-
was introduced. The CC defines a price ceiling based on the average of
electricity prices in 5 Western European countries and prices in international
electricity exchanges. Currently, the ceiling price is about Din 2.33/kWh (US
cents 10/kWh)*. The current average price of EBH is Din 1.606/kWh (US cents
7/kWh), which is about 70% of the CC ceiling price.
2.          The adjustments in electricity prices since October 1983 through
April 1991 are given below. All increases apply to winter and summer prices.
EBH continues to face serious financial difficulties mainly because some the
major electricity customers, especially industry, are unable to pay their
electricity bills. The fundamental problem is linked with the weakness of the
economy. A comparison of cumulative increases in tariffs to inflation from
1983 to April 1991 is provided in Table 1 below.
1983
(i)    16% increase in November;
(ii)   50 para/kWh increase in all kilowatt-hour rates (equivalent to
about a 25% increase in the average revenue per kilowatt-hour).
*Exchange rate: 1US$ - 23Din



- 40 -
1984
(i)    differential increases in various RAPs averaging about 30%
(ranging from 31.8% to 28.8%) effective October 1, 1984;
(ii)   33.5% in December.
1985
(i)    20% in July.
1986
(i)    differential increase in various RAPs averaging 16% in February;
(ii)   17% in April;
(iii)  differential increase in various RAPs averaging 39.1%;
(iv)   26% in November.
1987
(i)    12% in January;
(ii)   16.9% in April;
(iii)  39.6% in August;
(iv)   69.4% in November.
1988
(i)    31.4% in June;
(ii)   39.95% in August;
(iii)  29.3% in November.
1989
(M)    48% in February;
(ii)   79% in April;
(iii)  58.9% in May;
(iv)   54.9% in July;
(v)    49% in August;
(vi)   69% in October;
(vii)  100.2% in December.
1990
(i)    27.5% in April;



- 41 -
(ii)   24% in August;
(iii)  8X in December.
91i
(1)    25.9% in February;
(ii)   28.7% in April.
Table 1
Comparison of Cumulative Increases in Tariffs with Inflation
(Z)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989        1990       1991 (April)
Cumulative
tariff
increase            45   151.6  202  618.3  2124   5188  173,736   296,722    480,850
Cumulative
inflation           39   117.8  282.7 620   1475  4603   63,659  438,310    535,637
Cumulative
real increase
in tariffs           4.3  15.5  (26.7)  (0.2)  41.2   12.4    172.6    (48.0)       (11.4)'
'As of end-April 1991, electricity tariffs had declined by about 11%, in real terms,
relative to the levels prevailing in 1983.



- 42 -
S.     Use of Bank I.v'c
A. Staff Inouts (Staff Weeks)
Stages of
Proiect Cycle                Actual
Through Appraisal             53.2
Appraisal through
Board Approval                8.8
Board Approval
through effectiveness         4.6
Supervision                   64.4
Total Staff Weeks            131.0
B. Missions
Stage of                 Month/      # of    Days       Specialization    Performance    Types of
Proiect Cycle            Year        Person  in Field    Regresented V    Ratina Status t  Problems /
Identification           10/83      3         10        FNA, PEGR, PEGR
Preparation              04/84      2        20         FNA, PEGR
Appraisal                06/84       6        14        PEGR, FNA, ES,
GLG, ECN,
PREGR, CONGR
Post appraisal through
Board Approval           10/84       2       4          MM                               F/O
11/84      1        3          PEGR                            T/F
03/85      3        8          PEGR, ECN, FNA                  T/F/O
04/85      2        3          FNA, ECN                         F/EC
Board Approval through
Effectiveness            06/85       1       20         FNA
Supervision              09/85       4        10        PEGR, ECN, FNA      1
03/15/86    3       10         PEGR, ECN, FNA      1
03/16/87    2        10        PEGR, ECN           1
11/07/87    5        6         ECN, PEGR, GLG
PEGR, FNA,         2            F
05/88       1        3         FNA                 2            F
11/06/88    5       10         ECN, FNA, PEGR,    2            F
06/90       1        3         ECN                 2            F
03/31/91    1        3         ECN                 2           F
B/Keys: FNA - Financial Analyst; PEGR = Power Engineer; ES = Environmental Specialis; GLG = Engineering
Geoogist; ECN - Energy Economist PREGR = Procurement Engineer; CONGR = Consulting Engineer;
MAA - Management
k/Keys: 1 - No major problems; 2 - Problems but not major.
9/Keys: F - Financial; T - Technical; EC = Economic; 0  Other.



